General information BCA Marketplace plc BCA, the Group or the Company, was incorporated in April 2014: its aim was to acquire and manage companies in the UK and European automotive sector.
On 2 April 2015, BCA Marketplace plc acquired the BCA Group BCA Group.
This was followed by the acquisitions of SMA Vehicle Remarketing Limited SMA on 1 June 2015, Stobart Automotive Limited BCA Automotive on 25 August 2015, Ambrosetti U. K. Limited Ambrosetti on 4 February 2016, Paragon Automotive Limited Paragon on 18 July 2016 and Supreme Wheels Direct Ltd Supreme Wheels on 31 March 2017.
On 21 December 2017 the shares owned by the non-controlling interest in Life on Show Limited were acquired.
Details of acquisitions in the current and prior year are discussed further in note 18.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group, and can be found on pages 126 to 131.
The Company is a public limited company, listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in the UK with the registered number 09019615.
The address of the Companys registered office is Haversham House, Coronation Business Park, Kiln Road, Kempston Hardwick, Bedford MK43 9PR.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements for the year ended 1 April 2018 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities including derivatives at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements and the notes to the financial statements are presented in millions of pounds Sterling m except where otherwise indicated.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of the accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 4.
Going concern The Group maintains a mixture of medium-term debt, committed credit facilities, finance lease arrangements and cash reserves, which together are designed to ensure that the Group has sufficient available funds to finance its operations.
The Board reviews forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements based on a range of scenarios to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its committed borrowing facilities at all times, so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants where applicable on any of its borrowing facilities.
After making appropriate enquiries and having considered the business activities and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
This conclusion has been reached following the review and approval of the Viability statement.
For further information see page 67.
Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
84 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance F Fiin na an nc ciial als s Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Losses applicable to non-controlling interests are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
Intragroup balances, and any gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Gains arising from transactions with jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Losses are eliminated in the same way as gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency translation The functional currency of the Company and the majority of entities within the Group is Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate.
The Groups presentation currency is Sterling.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the respective functional currency of Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at period-end exchange rates of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the income statement within finance income or costs.
All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement within other income or other operating costs.
Consolidation of Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities including goodwill, intangible assets arising on acquisition and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and are accumulated in the foreign exchange translation reserve or non-controlling interest.
On disposal of a foreign subsidiary the cumulative amount of the exchange differences recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign exchange translation reserve is recognised in the income statement when the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 85 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 3.
Accounting policies a Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services supplied, stated net of discounts, returns and value added taxes.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured: when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity: and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Groups activities, as described below.
Outsourced vehicle auction revenue represents the vehicle sale proceeds obtained when the vehicle is sold and is recognised on the date of sale.
It is the customers intention for the Group to take legal title of certain vehicles based on contractual agreements with corporates before the vehicle is sold to the end customer through the various remarketing channels.
Vehicle auction revenue represents vendor and buyer fees for vehicles sold by the Group together with fees for related services including transportation, inspection, valeting and mechanical checks.
Revenue is recognised at the time the service is provided, which is predominantly at the point the vehicle is sold at auction.
Revenue represents the fees for the auction service not the value of the vehicle sold, as the Group does not incur the significant risks and rewards of ownership as part of the transaction.
Interest and loan origination fees earned in respect of the provision of Partner Finance loans are recognised over the term of the funding and are included within revenue.
Fees charged by Partner Finance are recognised evenly over the period that the relevant service is provided.
Vehicle buying revenue represents the vehicle sale proceeds obtained when the vehicle is sold and is recognised on the date of sale.
Transaction fees charged to vendors of vehicles are recognised on the purchase invoice date and treated as a reduction in the cost of inventory and therefore in the cost of sales.
Revenue for other services, including logistics and automotive services, is recognised once the contracted service has been provided.
For transportation or delivery services this is deemed to be when the customer has received the vehicle: for storage services this is deemed to be once an activity has been completed, such as receiving and parking a vehicle, and generally on a daily basis for storage charges: for vehicle repair and vehicle enhancement work this is deemed to be when work has been completed to a stage that can be invoiced to the customer: and for fleet services management this is deemed to be over the period the service is provided on a straight line basis.
b Advertising and marketing costs The Group carries out a variety of advertising and marketing activities.
These include advertising activities which correlate to the number of vehicles that are acquired by the Group through the Vehicle Buying division and for subsequent sale through the Groups auctions for which revenue is recognised.
These direct advertising costs are therefore recognised as a cost of sale.
All other indirect advertising and marketing costs are recognised within operating costs.
The cost of advertising design is expensed as incurred and the expense of advertising campaigns is expensed in the income statement in the period in which the advertising space or air time is utilised.
c Net finance costs Finance costs Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, direct transaction costs, unwinding of the discount on provisions, net interest cost of defined benefit pension arrangements and foreign exchange losses on finance balances.
Transaction costs are amortised over the life of the debt using the effective interest method.
Finance income Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested and foreign exchange gains on finance balances.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the effective interest method.
86 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance F Fiin na an nc ciial als s d Taxation Income tax for the years presented comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in income or other comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to taxes payable in respect of previous periods.
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if certain criteria are met.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of other assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they are unlikely to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
e Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
f Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
g Inventories Inventories primarily represent vehicles acquired by the Group that have not yet been sold and where the Group has the risk and reward of ownership of such vehicles.
Other inventories include vehicle parts.
All inventories are stated at the lower of purchase cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents expenses incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
In the Vehicle Buying division the vehicle cost is net of any administration fees paid to the Group by the seller of the vehicle.
Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred on completion of the sale and disposal.
The UK Vehicle Remarketing division in the ordinary course of business will purchase a vehicle from a vendor in order to complete a sale where a buyer has reneged on the purchase or there was an error in the sales process.
This represents between 1% and 2% of UK volume and is considered a cost of business and so the purchase value and subsequent resale value have historically been netted down within cost of sales.
h Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that arise principally through the provision of services to customers.
They are initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, where the impact is material.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 87 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Impairment of financial assets Impairment provisions are recognised when there is objective evidence such as significant financial difficulties on the part of the counterparty, default or significant delay in payment that the Group will be unable to collect all of the amounts due under the terms of the receivable, the amount of such a provision being the difference between the net carrying amount and the present value of the future expected cash flows associated with the impaired receivable discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
For trade receivables, which are reported net of any provisions, such provisions are recorded in a separate provision account with the loss being recognised within operating costs in the income statement.
On confirmation that the trade receivable will not be collectable, the gross carrying value of the asset is written off against the associated provision.
i Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially stated at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
j Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, that can be measured reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in finance costs.
Property leases and dilapidations Provisions for onerous leases on property are recognised when it is probable that future obligations under the lease will exceed earnings achievable from the property, taking into account the Directors estimation of likely income from the subletting of vacant property.
The amounts of such net outflows are discounted at the risk-appropriate rate, and are stated net of any anticipated sub-lease income.
Provisions for dilapidations are made in respect of property leases on a lease by lease basis and are based on the Groups best estimate of the likely committed cash outflow.
Where relevant, these estimated outflows are discounted to net present value.
k Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise internally generated software, acquired computer software, and intangible assets such as customer relationships and brand arising as part of the assessment of assets on the acquisition of a business.
These are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
Costs relating to the development of computer software for internal use are capitalised once all the development phase recognition criteria of IAS 38 are met.
Costs incurred before this point are expensed as incurred and are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
The assessment identifies unique software products that are controlled by the Group and that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year.
Salary and related employment costs that are directly attributable to the development of the software are then capitalised.
When the software is available for its intended use, these costs are amortised in equal annual amounts over the estimated useful life of the software.
Amortisation and impairment are charged to operating costs in the period in which they arise.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis from the date on which the assets are brought into use, with useful lives as indicated below: Customer relationships 12 20 years Brand 15 25 years Software Internally generated 3 10 years Software Acquired 3 7 years, or the licence term if shorter Assets acquired through business combinations are amortised over the remaining useful life at acquisition.
Amortisation periods and methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
For the Groups impairment policy on non-financial assets see m Impairment of non-financial assets.
l Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and is recognised initially as the excess of the consideration transferred, over the Groups interest in fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units, which are no higher than an operating segment prior to aggregation, and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised in the income statement for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill that is not denominated in Sterling is retranslated at each balance sheet date.
88 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance F Fiin na an nc ciial als s m Impairment of non-financial assets Goodwill has an indefinite useful life and is not subject to amortisation.
As a result it is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
Other assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows cash-generating units, which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
n Property, plant and equipment Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, those components are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and when the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
Assets under construction The costs of assets that are being constructed are capitalised as described in the Owned assets paragraph above.
Assets under construction are not depreciated until the asset is deemed to be available for use.
For the asset to be available for use it has to be in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the intended manner.
Once the asset is available for use it is no longer classified as an asset under construction and is instead depreciated like any other item of property, plant and equipment.
Leased assets Leases under which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are classified as finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under a finance lease is recorded at fair value or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less depreciation and any impairment.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in the other short-term or long-term payables as appropriate.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term, on a straight line basis.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Any property, plant and equipment acquired under a finance lease is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Land and buildings 50 years, or the unexpired lease period if shorter Fixtures, fittings and equipment 2 10 years Plant, machinery and motor vehicles 3 25 years Assets acquired through business combinations are depreciated over the remaining useful life at acquisition.
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
o Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the expected utilisation of the facility to which it relates.
B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 89 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 3.
Accounting policies continued p Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in share premium as a deduction from the proceeds.
Where the Group purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such Ordinary shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
q Employee benefits Pension obligations The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
The defined benefit plans operated by the Group in the United Kingdom are closed to new members.
The costs of providing benefits under the plans are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The current service cost is included in operating costs in the consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
Administrative scheme expenses associated with the plans are recorded within operating costs when incurred in line with IAS 19.
Net interest income or interest cost relating to the funded defined benefit pension plans is included within finance income or finance costs as relevant in the consolidated income statement.
Changes to the retirement benefit obligation or asset due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, presented as remeasurements of the defined benefit scheme in full in the period in which they arise.
Where scheme assets exceed the defined benefit obligation the net asset is only recognised to the extent that an economic benefit is available to the Group in accordance with the terms of the scheme and where consistent with relevant statutory requirements.
Share based payment transactions The Group operates equity-settled, share based plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the awards is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the compensation as determined by independent valuations.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of awards that are expected to vest.
The cost of equity-settled transactions are recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period during which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees are expected to become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
At each reporting date, the cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions reflects, in the opinion of the Directors, the number of awards that will vest and the proportion of the period to vesting that has expired.
Directors estimates are based on the best available information at that date.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of the Groups consolidated and Parent Company financial statements under adopted IFRS requires the Directors and management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Accounting policies are reviewed annually for appropriateness.
Estimates and judgements are evaluated continually and are based on historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates, with any changes arising being recognised in the period in which the change in estimate is made or the final result determined.
90 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance F Fiin na an nc ciial als s Certain of the Groups significant accounting policies are considered by the Directors to be critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
There were no unusual or significant transactions in the year that required judgement.
Existing judgements, where applicable, are contained within the accounting policies.
Details of the estimates can be found in the following notes: Page 98 Note 12 Taxation 104 Note 17 Provisions, commitments and contingencies 106 Note 18 Acquisitions 107 Note 19 Intangible assets 112 Note 25 Share based payments 114 Note 26 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 5.
New standards, amendments and interpretations a New and amended standards adopted by the Group Standard Applicable from Amendments Expected impact Amendment to IAS 7 1 Jan 2017 The amendment introduces an additional disclosure that will The Group has included an Cash flow statements enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in additional table in note 27 liabilities arising from financing activities Financial instruments disclosing the movements in liabilities arising from financing activities No other new standards, amendments or interpretations effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2017 have had a material impact on the Group or Parent Company.
b New standards and interpretations not yet adopted i. Summarised impact Standards and interpretations which are issued but not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group are summarised in the table below.
For more detail on the Groups assessment of the impact of the new standards see b ii: Standard Applicable from Amendments Expected impact IFRS 9 1 Jan 2018 The standard addresses the classification, measurement and The Group has assessed the impact Financial Instruments recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities and as non-significant replaces IAS 39 IFRS 15 1 Jan 2018 The standard combines and supersedes the guidance in The Group has determined that the Revenue from Contracts various standards and interpretations, including, but not new standard will increase revenue with Customers limited to IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
by less than 5%, but will not impact It establishes a single, comprehensive framework for revenue profitability measures recognition to be applied across industries and for all categories of revenue transactions Amendment to IFRS 2 1 Jan 2018 The amendment claries that when tax laws or regulations The performance scheme was Share based payments oblige an entity to withhold an amount for an employees tax settled post year end in accordance obligation associated with a share based payment and to with this amendment transfer that amount, normally in cash, to the tax authority on the employees behalf, the transaction shall be classied in its entirety as an equity-settled share based payment transaction if it would have been so classied in the absence of the net settlement feature IFRS 16 1 Jan 2019 The standard establishes principles for the recognition, There will be an impact on the Leases measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases, other Groups financial position and than short-term and low-value assets, and replaces IAS 17 performance.
IFRS 16 will result in the recognition of a lease liability are explained following this table and corresponding right of use asset on the Groups balance sheet in respect of the majority of operating leases.
The timing and presentation of charges recognised in the income statement will change, with current operating lease expenses replaced by depreciation of the right of use asset and interest on the lease liability B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 91 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 5.
New standards, amendments and interpretations continued b New standards and interpretations not yet adopted continued ii.
Detailed Group assessment The Group has performed a detailed exercise to assess the impact of the following new accounting standards on the financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The standard has been reviewed and applied to the financial assets and liabilities currently within the Group.
Financial assets held by the Group are loans and receivables.
The majority of trade receivables do not contain a significant financing component and so can be initially recognised at the transaction price as opposed to fair value under IAS 39.
Historically there has been no material difference between the transaction price and fair value and no material impact is anticipated.
The impairment criteria for financial assets will be amended from the incurred loss model to the expected loss model.
This will result in impairment charges, should they arise, being recognised in the income statement earlier than under IAS 39.
Due to the short-term nature of the Groups financial assets, the impact is expected to be immaterial.
Other changes as a result of the new standard do not affect the Group at present.
The most notable changes are the hedge accounting requirements, which allows broader exposures to be hedged and establishes new criteria for hedge accounting that are less complex and more aligned with the way that entities manage their risks than under IAS 39.
An estimate of the quantitative impact of IFRS 9 is not yet possible at this stage, but is not expected to be significant.
IFRS 9 will be applied retrospectively, with adjustments to the impairment of financial assets, where applicable, disclosed in a reconciliation with IAS 39.
The prior year comparison will not be restated, as it would be impacted by hindsight, which is not permitted under IFRS 9.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers A Group-wide project to analyse the effects of IFRS 15 has been conducted.
Within the scope of the project, contracts with customers have been analysed using the five step model prescribed by IFRS 15.
This was to ensure compliance in all divisions across the Group and through all revenue streams.
The Group recognises revenue on both an agency and principal basis dependent on the revenue stream.
Whilst the standard sets out new guidance on whether a transaction is agency or principal, this is not expected to change revenue recognition within the Group.
Applying the five step process prescribed by IFRS 15, the resale will be recognised in revenue, not cost of sales.
As a result management expects to make an adjustment on adoption to increase both revenue and cost of sales by between 45m and 70m, with no net impact on gross margin.
The UK Vehicle Buying division offers a faster payment service to vehicle sellers, for which it charges the seller.
At present this fee is netted down against the purchase price of the vehicle within cost of sales.
Under IFRS 15 this fee is being charged for providing an identifiable service and should therefore be recognised within revenue.
As a result management expects to make an adjustment on adoption to increase both revenue and cost of sales by between 1m and 2m, with no net impact on gross margin.
Due to the short-term nature of the majority of transactions in the Group the impact of this standard is limited.
IFRS 15 will be applied using the cumulative effect method, with adjustments disclosed in a reconciliation.
The prior year comparison will not be restated as it will not add to comparability due to the growth mix of agency and principal revenue within the UK Vehicle Remarketing division.
92 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance F Fiin na an nc ciial als s IFRS 16 Leases The lessee accounting requirements will not impact on cash payments relating to the leases, but will have an impact on the Groups financial position and performance.
A number of the Groups properties, transporters and other operational equipment are currently accounted for as an operating lease, but under IFRS 16 a lease liability and right of use asset will be recognised instead.
The key impacts are as follows: Balance sheet At present, future committed operating lease payments are disclosed in note 17 to the accounts.
On adoption the rights and obligations arising from all leases will be recognised as a right of use asset and lease liability on the balance sheet.
This is consistent with the current treatment of finance leases.
The right of use asset is initially recognised at the present value of future lease payments plus initial direct costs and is subsequently depreciated over the lease term.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments to be made during the term of the lease.
On initial recognition the liability will be greater than the asset due to the existing operating lease liabilities, Obligations under operating leases and the Onerous lease provision, being netted against the right of use asset.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount will be increased for the effective interest and reduced by the payments made.
Income statement Operating lease costs are currently charged to operating costs.
Under IFRS 16 the right of use asset will be depreciated and the unwind of the discount on the lease liability will be charged to finance costs.
The total impact to the income statement will have no significant impact on our earnings and therefore dividend payout levels, but it will have a favourable significant impact on adjusted EBITDA due to depreciation and finance costs being excluded from this key performance indicator.
The most relevant key performance indicator following adoption is therefore also under assessment by management.
Cash flow statement Under IFRS 16, the repayment of the principal portion of the lease liability will be reflected in cash flows from financing activities and the interest portion will be included in cash flows from operating activities.
At present the full operating lease payment is reflected in cash flows from operating activities.
Whilst there is no impact on net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents, it will increase cash flows from operating activities and decrease cash flows from financing activities.
Out of scope leases Leases under $5,000 or 12 months in length will not be accounted for as described above and will continue to be treated as operating leases, with the cost in operating costs in the income statement and future payments not reflected on the balance sheet.
The total cost in the income statement will continue to be disclosed in the operating costs disclosure note.
IFRS 16 will result in expanded disclosures due to the requirements of the standard and also because of the material nature of the leases.
The Group is currently undertaking a project to assess the full impact of the standard and at present it is therefore not possible to quantify the impact.
This is in part due to the large number of external leases and potential for changes to, or additional, lease agreements.
The Group expects to apply IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach and does not intend to adopt early.
There are several practical expedients on transition that management are currently considering.
On adoption the cumulative adjustment will be recognised in equity.
B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 93
