com Operational update Maintaining operations and preparing our business for high performance inan increasingly digital world Ian Fantozzi Chief operating officer To support Beazleys continuing growth We have also supported the launch of Cost efficiency we have developed a scalable and several financial lines products in Europe Beazley is organised to a large degree efficient operating platform that through via our Europe based insurance company.
around global underwriting and claims focused investment has become an Key to growing the distribution of smaller teams.
This model has served us well important competitive advantage.
A high risk business has been the ongoing in ensuring that products that succeed performing global operations function expansion of our myBeazley.
com in one market can be swiftly introduced relies on us maintaining consistency e-trading platform.
The latest e-trading in others.
However, it is important that in operational standards throughout product launches have been for our this does not result in back office the group, while simultaneously being financial lines market offering, with systems and support resources becoming prepared to try new things and leverage a new management liability package duplicative or the administration of our depth of insurance operations product delivered in October 2018, with insurance transactions impeding the expertise to give us a lead over the subsequent go-lives planned in early business in any way.
In order to achieve this, 2019 for France and Spain.
Meanwhile in we pursue our group operations strategy.
com product In pursuit of greater efficiency and This focuses on the areas below: launch was the small enterprise MediaTech consistency of operational service, we package, which provides a quick and have centralised operations support or simple way for small businesses to Supporting growth initiatives outsourced it where this brings further access specialist insurance coverage.
In support of our growth plan, we have value.
We want to make sure that continued to enhance our infrastructure operations and processing are done by Supporting business growth relies on so that we can bring attractive new appropriately skilled people, at the most effective processes and systems, but it is products to market as efficiently as cost effective location, whilst providing also important that we have a high quality possible.
Expanded versions of our the best service levels.
To help achieve working environment that is conducive products such as Information Security this we have built operations service to team working and thought leadership.
for mid-sized and large businesses, centres in Connecticut and Georgia, both In 2018, we opened a new larger Munich and expanded regulatory coverage in the US, and the new Birmingham office office that will help to increase our access for nutraceutical firms are examples provides a cost-effective alternative to to continental European business.
We of products we launched in 2018.
It also benefits from excellent also opened a new Birmingham office access to skills relevant to Beazleys which has the capacity to take over future growth plans, for example in 150 Beazley staff.
This office now technology, data analytics and financial provides both an operations hub to services support generally.
support our UK and European growth, and also a facility to make it easier for UK regional brokers to access our business.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 51 We also make use of global outsourcing Over the last two years, another area We can see many applications of data agreements for business processing of focus across our industry was the and technology across our business, support and information technology preparation for the General Data and there continues to be a flow of support.
These arrangements have been Protection Regulation GDPR which technology innovations that we could carefully planned and selected to ensure came into effect in May 2018.
However, as we move further we can maximise a highly efficient and the privacy of our customer data, and the into the digital age, we recognise that scalable operating platform to support rights associated to the use of personal its not just about the technology.
To truly our business growth.
A significant data, as very important to preserve.
transform our business and make it fit proportion of our IT is now outsourced In previous years, Beazley has made for a digital environment, there are other to specialist technology vendors.
Not significant investment in this area and areas we must focus on: only has this enabled us to deliver far so our preparation for GDPR had been a more for our shareholders money, but it continuation of this work.
We completed 1 Applying technology and data to our has also been a source of expertise and our GDPR readiness project prior to the business model ideas that would have been difficult to May deadline and believe that we have Our specialist insurance business build in-house.
put the necessary measures in place provides cover for a broad range of client to be GDPR compliant.
risks both smaller risks such as those covered by our SME business products, Managing operational risk and larger complex risks such as those Beazleys digital transformation effectively covered by our marine energy products.
We have had some notable successes in Effective risk management requires Different technology solutions are best the two years since establishing the clear visibility of the level of operational applicable to different points on this Beazley Labs team, which provides risk we maintain.
Critical to supporting spectrum of risk size and complexity.
dedicated resource for researching new an effective control environment is So that we best leverage technology, we technology and data analytics solutions.
consistency of ownership for operations have created two new strategic initiatives: One has been the implementation of support and the provision of management Beazley Digital to focus on our smaller a permanent robotics development team information.
and higher volume underwriting: and that is steadily eliminating manual or Faster, Smarter Underwriting to focus repetitive tasks within our back office.
A widely discussed topic across our on our larger and more complex risk We have run several data analysis trials industry is the preparation for the UK underwriting.
which have generated new insights to departure from the EU.
We have worked support our specialist underwriting and closely with the Lloyds Brussels claims handling.
A recent example was subsidiary and our regulators to make the use of natural language processing sure that we are operationally ready software to identify patterns within high for a post Brexit world.
volumes of US hospital claims data.
The analysis has been used to identify correlations between key terms in submission data and claims activity, and these are now used to support our medical malpractice underwriting and to provide risk management advice back to our clients.
com Operational update continued The goal of Beazley Digital is to take Instead of delivering change and 4 Creating the optimum physical out any unnecessary points of manual technology via many individual projects, environment interaction in the underwriting process, we have reorganised our teams into Although Beazley receives plenty of which is key to writing profitable business platforms that are aligned both to the interest when attracting new operations and to minimising response times for markets that Beazley operates in, and to and technology talent, we recognise that our higher volume products.
The main the type of business being written.
Each our working environment needs to keep technologies that we are applying here platform has an annual delivery budget evolving to maintain this attraction and are: myBeazley.
com, for our brokers within which there is greater flexibility to then retain and further motivate this wanting an end-to-end electronic trading afforded to the relevant business lines talent.
In 2017 we commenced a project portal: natural language processing, to on how the budget is applied, and with to develop our larger offices into activity enable us to quickly extract underwriting the discipline of achieving against specific based working ABW environments.
data from the high volumes of submission business outcomes aligned to our group Although one benefit of ABW is more emails we receive: and Application strategy such as increasing cost efficient use of office space, it also Programming Interfaces APIs, so efficiency and responsiveness in creates a physical and technology that we can interface directly with broker customer service.
environment that maximises the potential IT systems and provide quotes or policies for our staff to carry out their daily without any re-keying required by either The move to the platform delivery model activities.
In 2018 we opened our first the broker or Beazley staff.
In an has enabled us to increase the speed of ABW environment in the Birmingham increasingly connected world, we see process and technology delivery by using office and we are in the process of APIs as a critical technology for an agile approach.
This is instead of building ABW offices in Toronto and New transacting business.
In 2018, for a more conventional waterfall delivery York, both opening in 2019.
We have also example, in partnership with a large approach which could in the past impede signed a lease for a London office move broker, we launched our cyber pricing our ability to deliver new ideas quickly.
The new London office will also API in both Spain and Australia.
Today, we often start the process of be an ABW environment.
solving a business problem or addressing Faster, Smarter Underwriting aims to an opportunity by running a hackathon, As we proceed into 2019 we are well use technology and data to support the where we put underwriting, operations placed not only as a high performing expert judgement of our underwriters.
and technology talent together for a short specialist insurer, but also because we The types of technology most applicable and intensive period of delivery.
An early have developed great strength in our here are data science tools which identify notable success has been our US operational capability.
The changes we correlations in external data sets that operations platform, which has managed have made in 2018 will allow us to build could enhance our underwriting to cut its product delivery time by half.
on this operational strength and ensure decisions.
A practical example of this we remain a high performing specialist is with our Reputational Risk product, 3 Developing our talent to best leverage insurer in an increasingly digital world.
which uses a technology to provide the technology underwriters with public sentiment trends We are investing in our workforce to on emerging risks being discussed on ensure we have the right blend of skills social media.
This means that our talent development programmes are placing 2 Building an agile delivery capability emphasis on cross-skilled staff so they One thing is certain in a digital world can operate in a more digital insurance business agility is key.
In practice this means regarded for its innovation in specialist underwriters with increased insurance.
To stay ahead of the understanding of technology, and competition, we seek to innovate in an similarly technology teams with greater increasingly agile way, taking new ideas knowledge of how specialist underwriting to the market quickly, gathering feedback, works.
The outcome we strive for is to put evolving or failing them fast.
This is why technology and data at the centre of our during 2018 we restructured our specialist underwriting proposition.
It also operations and technology teams to means we are increasingly equipped for what we call a platform delivery model.
changes driven by our business partners ranging from brokers wanting to trial new digital distribution methods to better understanding new insurance risks such as the growth in crypto currencies.
