Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Bellway p. l. c. the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
Both the Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss which are stated at their fair value.
On publishing the Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, which were approved for issue on 15 October 2018, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Operating Review on pages 28 to 31.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 32 to 33 and the Directors Report on pages 78 to 81.
The Risk Management section on pages 26 to 27 sets out the Groups policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risk, and its exposure to credit, liquidity, interest rate and housing market risk.
The Groups activities are financed principally by a combination of ordinary shares and bank borrowings less cash in hand.
At 31 July 2018, cash was 99.0 million having generated cash of 83.0 million see note 19 during the year.
The Group has operated within all of its banking covenants throughout the year.
In addition, the Group had bank facilities of 430.0 million, expiring in tranches up to March 2023, with 430.0 million available for drawdown under such facilities at 31 July 2018.
The directors consider that the Group is well placed to manage business and financial risks in the current economic environment and have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies and Adopted IFRSs, that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, are discussed below.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Effect of new standards and interpretations effective for the first time The Group adopted Annual Improvements 2014-2016 and Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 during the year.
The adoption of these has not had a material effect on the Groups profit for the year or equity.
The other standards and interpretations that are applicable for the first time in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2018 have had no effect on these financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company made up to 31 July.
The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of these entities are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Joint arrangements are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
A joint arrangement can take two forms: i Joint venture These entities are consolidated using the equity method of accounting.
ii Joint operation The Groups share of the assets, liabilities and transactions of such entities are accounted for directly as if they were assets, liabilities and transactions of the Group.
Bellway p. l. c. 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accounts Property, plant and equipment Items are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives over the following number of years: Plant, fixtures and fittings 3 to 10 years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Investment property Investment property is initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to recognition, investment property is measured using the cost model and is carried at cost less any accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged, where material, so as to write off the cost less residual value of the investment properties over their estimated useful lives.
The residual values and useful lives of investment properties are reviewed at each financial year end.
The useful life of investment properties has been assessed as being 10 to 100 years.
Investments in subsidiaries Interests in subsidiary undertakings are valued in the Company financial statements at cost less impairment.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost, in relation to work in progress and showhomes, comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads, not including any general administrative overheads, that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and overheads.
Land held for development, including land in the course of development until legal completion of the sale of the asset, is initially recorded at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out to identify any impairment in the value of the land by comparing the total estimated selling prices less estimated selling expenses against the book cost of the land plus estimated costs to complete.
A provision is made for any irrecoverable amounts.
Where, through deferred payment terms, the fair value of land purchased differs from the amount that will subsequently be paid in settling the liability, the difference is charged as a finance expense in the income statement over the period to settlement.
Options purchased in respect of land are capitalised initially at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out for impairment in the value of these options, and provisions made accordingly to reflect loss of value.
The impairment reviews consider the period elapsed since the date of purchase of the option given that the option contract has not been exercised at the review date.
Further, the impairment reviews consider the remaining life of the option, taking account of any concerns over whether the remaining time available will allow a successful exercise of the option.
The carrying cost of the option at the date of exercise is included within the cost of land purchased as a result of the option exercise.
Investments in land without the benefit of planning consent, either through the purchase of land or non-refundable deposits paid on land purchase contracts subject to planning consent, are included initially at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out for impairment in the values of these investments and provision made to reflect any irrecoverable element.
The impairment reviews consider the existing use value of the land and assess the likelihood of achieving planning consent and the value thereof.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their fair value at the date of initial recognition and subsequently at amortised cost less allowances for impairment.
Consideration which is contingent on future events is recognised based on the estimated amount if it is probable and can be reliably measured.
Any subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash balances in hand and in the bank including short-term cash deposits.
The Group utilises bank overdraft facilities, which are repayable on demand, as part of its cash management policy.
As a consequence, bank overdrafts are included as a component of net cash and cash equivalents within the cash flow statement.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are stated at their fair value at the date of initial recognition and subsequently at amortised cost.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Accounting Policies continued Trade and other payables Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on deferred terms, most notably in relation to land purchases, are recorded initially at their fair value.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period to settlement and charged to finance expenses.
Dividends Dividends on equity shares are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Classification of equity instruments and financial liabilities issued by the Group Equity instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: a they include no contractual obligations upon the Company or Group as the case may be to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company or Group : and b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Grants Grants are included within work in progress in the balance sheet to the extent that they contribute to construction costs and within deferred income to the extent that they contribute to site income.
Grants are credited to the income statement over the life of the developments to which they relate.
Revenue recognition a Private and social turnkey and plot sale housing sales and land sales.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the purchaser, which is when legal title is transferred.
b Social housing properties as part of a land sale and design and build contract.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the purchaser, which is when the homes are build complete and all material contractual obligations have been fulfilled.
Incentives Sales incentives are substantially cash in nature but include part-exchange costs which mainly relate to amounts written down, where the part-exchange allowance given to the purchaser of the new home is greater than the valuation of the part-exchange property.
Incentives are accounted for by reducing the housebuild revenue by the cost to the Group of providing the incentive.
See part-exchange properties policy below.
Rental income Rental income is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Part-exchange properties The purchase and subsequent sale of part-exchange properties is an activity undertaken in order to achieve the sale of a new property.
As such, the activity is regarded as a mechanism for selling.
Impairments and gains or losses on the sale of partexchange properties are classified as a cost of sale.
Contingent liabilities Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Bellway p. l. c. 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accounts Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account current and deferred taxation.
The charge is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity in which case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred taxation is provided for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Employee benefits retirement benefit costs The net defined benefit scheme asset or liability is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of scheme assets.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All remeasurement gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Statement of Comprehensive Income SOCI.
Net interest cost is calculated on the defined benefit liability asset for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit liability at the start of the year.
Return on plan assets in excess of the amounts included in the net interest cost are recognised in the SOCI.
Further details of the scheme and the valuation methods applied may be found in note 23 to the accounts.
Defined contribution pension costs are charged to the income statement in the period for which contributions are payable.
Employee benefits share-based payments The fair value of equity settled share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured as at the date the options are granted and the charge is only amended if vesting does not take place due to non-market conditions not being met.
Various option pricing models are used according to the terms of the option scheme under which the options were granted.
The fair value is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of options that vest.
At the balance sheet date, if it is expected that non-market conditions will not be satisfied, the cumulative expense recognised in relation to the relevant options is reversed.
With respect to share-based payments, a deferred tax asset is recognised on the relevant tax base.
The tax base is then compared to the cumulative share-based payment expense recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax arising on the excess of the tax base over the cumulative share-based payment expense recognised in the income statement has been recognised directly in equity outside the SOCI as share-based payments are considered to be transactions with shareholders.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises, in its individual financial statements, an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity settled share-based payment charge recognised in its consolidated financial statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised in equity.
Own shares held by ESOP trust Transactions of the Company-sponsored ESOP trust are included in both the Group financial statements and the Companys own financial statements.
The purchase of shares in the Company by the trust are charged directly to equity.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Finance income and expenses Finance income includes interest receivable on bank deposits.
Finance expenses includes interest on bank borrowings.
The discounting of the deferred payments for land purchases produces a notional interest payable amount and this is also charged to finance expenses.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those which, in the opinion of the Board, are material by size or nature, non-recurring, and of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Accounting Policies continued Accounting estimates and judgements Management considers the key estimates and judgements made in the financial statements to be related to: Valuation of work in progress and land held for development Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less all estimated costs of completion and overheads.
Valuations of site phase work in progress are carried out at regular intervals and estimates of the cost to complete a site phase and estimates of anticipated revenues are required to enable a development profit to be determined.
Management are required to employ considerable judgement in estimating the profitability of a site phase and in assessing any impairment provisions which may be required.
This is a key judgement including estimates made in the financial statements.
If a 10% increase was applied to the inventories net realisable provision, this would not have a material effect on the carrying value of work in progress and land held for development at the year end.
For both the years ended 31 July 2018 and 31 July 2017, a full review of inventories has been performed and write-downs have been made where cost exceeds net realisable value.
Estimated selling prices have been reviewed on a site by site phase by phase basis and have been amended based on local management and the Boards assessment of current market conditions.
For the years ended 31 July 2018 and 31 July 2017 no exceptional charge has resulted from the review.
Gross profit recognition Gross profit is recognised for completed house sales based on the latest whole site phase gross margin which is an output of the site phase valuation.
These valuations, which are updated at frequent intervals throughout the life of the site phase, use actual and forecast selling prices, land costs and construction costs and are sensitive to future movements in both the estimated cost to complete and expected selling prices.
Forecast selling prices are inherently uncertain due to changes in market conditions.
This is a key estimate made in the financial statements.
To determine the amount of profit that the Group is able to recognise on its sites phases in the year, the Group needs to allocate site phase wide costs between all plots.
It is also necessary to estimate costs to complete on such sites phases.
In making these assessments certain estimates are made.
In addition the Group makes estimates in relation to future sales prices on the site phase.
The Group has a number of internal controls to assess and review the reasonableness of estimates made.
If housing gross margin increased by 200 basis points, it is estimated that the quantum of housing cost of sales would decrease by around 2.6%.
Standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following relevant standards which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue and endorsed by the EU but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
This standard will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and will affect both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments.
This is effective for the period beginning on 1 August 2018.
The Group does not consider this will have a material effect on the financial statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
This is a converged standard from the IASB and FASB on revenue recognition to assist with comparability of revenue globally.
This standard will result in presentational changes to the income statement to gross up part-exchange revenue and expenses within operating profit which are currently recognised on a net basis within cost of sales.
The impact of IFRS 15 for the year ended 31 July 2018 would have been to recognise other operating income of 141.1 million and other operating expenses of 145.1 million, and a corresponding 4.0 million decrease in cost of sales.
This standard replaces the existing standard, IAS 17 Leases, where lessees are required to make a distinction between a finance lease on balance sheet and an operating lease off balance sheet.
IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a right of use asset for virtually all lease contracts.
This is effective for the period beginning on 1 August 2019, although the Group will adopt this standard with effect from 1 August 2018.
The impact of IFRS 16 as at 31 July 2018 would have been an increase in non-current assets of 13.9 million, lease liabilities of 14.3 million and finance expenses of 0.4 million.
Of the other IFRSs that are available for early adoption, none are expected to have a material effect on the financial statements.
Bellway p. l. c. 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
