Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Minerals Australia Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 1 Australia Olympic Dam Underground copper mine, also producing uranium, gold and silver 100% 2 Australia Western Australia Iron Ore Integrated iron ore mines, rail and port operations in the Pilbara region 5185% of Western Australia 3 Australia New South Wales Energy Coal Open-cut energy coal mine and coal preparation plant in New South Wales 100% 4 Australia BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance Open-cut and underground metallurgical coal mines in the Queensland 50% Bowen Basin and Hay Point Coal Terminal 5 Australia BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Two open-cut metallurgical coal mines in the Bowen Basin, Central Queensland 80% 6 Australia Nickel West Integrated sulphide mining, concentrating, smelting and refining operation 100% in Western Australia Minerals Americas Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 7 Chile Escondida Open-cut copper mine located in northern Chile 57.5% 8 Chile Pampa Norte Consists of the Cerro Colorado and Spence open-cut mines, producing 100% copper cathode in northern Chile 1 9 Peru Antamina Open-cut copper and zinc mine in northern Peru 33.75% 1 10 Brazil Samarco Open-cut iron ore mines, concentrators, pipelines, pelletising facilities 50% and dedicated port 1 11 Colombia Cerrejn Open-cut energy coal mine with integrated rail and port operations 33.3% 12 Canada Jansen Our interest in potash is via development projects in the Canadian province 100% of Saskatchewan, where the Jansen Project is our most advanced Petroleum Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 2 13 US Onshore US Onshore shale liquids and gas fields in Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas 1100% 14 Australia Australia Production Unit Offshore oil fields and gas processing facilities in Western Australia 39.9990% and Victoria 15 US Gulf of Mexico Production Unit Offshore oil and gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico 3544% 16 Trinidad and Tobago Trinidad and Tobago Production Unit Offshore oil and gas fields 45% 1 17 UK UK Production Unit Offshore oil and gas fields 1631.83% 1 18 Algeria Algeria Joint Interest Unit Onshore oil and gas unit 29.3% 1 19 Australia Australia Joint Interest Unit Offshore oil and gas fields in Bass Strait and North West Shelf 12.550% 1 20 US Gulf of Mexico Joint Interest Unit Offshore oil and gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico 4.9544% BHP principal office locations Ref Country Location Office 21 Australia Adelaide Minerals Australia office 22 Australia Brisbane Minerals Australia office 23 Australia Melbourne Global headquarters 24 Australia Perth Minerals Australia office 25 Canada Saskatoon Minerals Americas office 26 Chile Santiago Minerals Americas office 27 China Shanghai Corporate office 28 India New Delhi Corporate office 29 Japan Tokyo Corporate office 30 Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Global Asset Services Centre 31 Philippines Manila Global Asset Services Centre 32 Singapore Singapore Marketing and corporate office 33 UK London Corporate office 34 US Houston Petroleum office 35 US New York Corporate office Copper Iron Ore Coal Nickel Potash Petroleum 1 Non-operated joint venture.
2 On 27 July 2018, we announced that we had entered into agreements for the sale of our entire interest in the Eagle Ford, Haynesville, Permian and Fayetteville Onshore US oil and gas assets.
BHP Annual Report 2018 15 1.5 Our performance Key performance indicators Our key performance indicators KPIs enable us to measure Following BHPs sale of the Onshore US assets announced on our sustainable development and financial performance.
27 July 2018, the contribution of these assets to the Groups results These KPIs are used to assess performance of our people is presented in this Annual Report as Discontinued operations and throughout the Group.
related assets and liabilities reclassified to held for sale unless otherwise stated.
For information on our approach to performance and reward, refer to section 1.7.
For more information on the accounting treatment, refer to section 5.
For information on our overall approach to executive remuneration, including remuneration policies and To enable more meaningful comparisons with prior year disclosures, remuneration outcomes, refer to section 3. and in some cases to comply with applicable statutory requirements, the data in section 1.5 has been presented to include Onshore US, except for Underlying EBITDA.
Footnotes to tables and infographics indicate whether data presented in section 1.5 is inclusive or exclusive of Onshore US.
1 Financial KPIs Financial KPIs Underlying Underlying Net operating 1 3 2 3 1 attributable profit EBITDA cash flows US$ billion US$ billion US$ billion 20 35 30 30 25 15 25 20 23.2 20 18.5 10 15 15 8.9 10 10 5 5 5 0 0 0 In FY2018, higher prices and a strong operating performance of US$5.4 billion in FY2018 reflects strong free cash generation as generated strong cash flow, enabling us to reduce net debt and well as a favourable non-cash fair value adjustment of US$108 million increase our dividends.
related to interest rate and exchange rate movements, partially offset by dividends to shareholders of US$5.2 billion and dividends Profit and earnings paid to non-controlling interests of US$1.6 billion.
Attributable profit of US$3.7 billion in FY2018 includes an Our gearing ratio in FY2018 was 15.3 per cent FY2017: 20.6 per cent.
exceptional loss of US$5.2 billion after tax, compared to an attributable profit of US$5.9 billion, including an exceptional Capital management loss of US$842 million after tax, in the prior period.
The FY2018 Net operating cash flows of US$18.5 billion in FY2018 reflect higher exceptional loss is related to the impairment of Onshore US commodity prices and a strong operating performance during the assets, US tax reform and the Samarco dam failure.
1 3 year, with free cash flow of US$12.5 billion.
This is the second Our Underlying attributable profit was US$8.9 billion FY2017: consecutive year of free cash flow above US$12 billion.
Our dividend policy provides for a minimum 50 per cent payout of We reported Underlying EBITDA of US$23.2 billion FY2017: Underlying attributable profit at every reporting period.
The minimum US$19.4 billion, with higher prices, increased volumes and dividend payment for the second half was 46 US cents per share.
one-off items in total US$5.6 billion more than offsetting the Recognising the importance of cash returns to shareholders, the impacts of higher costs, unfavourable exchange rate movements, Board determined to pay an additional amount of 17 US cents per inflation and other net movements in total US$1.8 billion.
share, taking the final dividend to 63 US cents per share which is covered by free cash flow generated in FY2018.
In total, dividends Cash flow and balance sheet of US$6.3 billion 118 US cents per share, an increase of 42 per cent Our Net operating cash flow of US$18.5 billion in FY2018 reflects from FY2017 have been determined for FY2018, including additional higher commodity prices and a strong operating performance amounts of US$1.8 billion above the minimum payout ratio.
Our balance sheet was strong, with net debt at US$10.9 billion at FY2018 year-end FY2017: US$16.3 billion: FY2016: US$26.1 billion, a reduction of more than US$15 billion over two years.
The reduction 1 Includes data for Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
2 Excludes data from Discontinued operations for financial years being reported.
3 For more information on alternative performance measures, refer to section 1.11.4.
16 BHP Annual Report 2018 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Capital and exploration expenditure increased by 29 per cent to Queensland Coal have resulted in a reduction of approximately US$6.8 billion in FY2018 in line with guidance, reflecting continued US$700 million following the challenging operating conditions investment in high-return latent capacity projects, increased at the Broadmeadow and Blackwater mines during FY2018.
Onshore US drilling activity and an increase post the approval WAIO unit costs decreased by two per cent to $14.26 per tonne of Mad Dog Phase 2 and the Spence Growth Option in FY2017.
despite the impact of a stronger Australian dollar.
Conventional Capital and exploration expenditure guidance is unchanged at petroleum, Escondida and Queensland Coal unit costs increased below US$8 billion per annum for FY2019 and FY2020, subject by 16 per cent, 15 per cent and 14 per cent, respectively.
WAIO unit to exchange rate movements.
costs declined due to reductions in labour and a three per cent increase in production as a result of improved productivity and Productivity stability across the supply chain.
Conventional petroleum unit costs Strong operating performance at Escondida and Western Australia were higher due to lower volumes as a result of the impact of Iron Ore WAIO underpinned a US$374 million productivity gain Hurricanes Harvey and Nate on US Petroleum assets and natural in the second half of FY2018, bringing the total financial year field decline.
Escondida unit costs increased due to a change in movement to negative US$96 million.
Productivity gains of estimated recoverable copper contained in the Escondida sulphide approximately US$1 billion are now expected for FY2019 with leach pad which benefited costs in the prior period.
Queensland strong momentum carried into FY2020.
Coal unit costs were higher, driven by unfavourable fixed cost This lower guidance from the previous guidance of US$2 billion dilution from reduced volumes at Broadmeadow and Blackwater over the two years to the end of FY2019 reflects the announced mines and additional contractor stripping fleet costs and divestments of Onshore US and Cerro Colorado, being a reduction debottlenecking activities.
In addition, modified assumptions in respect of the pace of productivity uplift over the two-year period at Reconciling our financial results to our key performance indicators Profit Earnings Cash Measure: Profit after taxation from US$M Profit after taxation from US$M Net operating cash flows US$M Continuing and Continuing and from Continuing operations 4,823 4,823 17,561 Discontinued operations Discontinued operations Made up of: Profit loss after taxation Profit loss after taxation Cash generated by the Groups consolidated operations, after dividends received, interest, taxation and royalty-related taxation.
It excludes cash flows relating to investing and financing activities Adjusted for: Exceptional items Exceptional items Net operating cash flows 3,509 1 650 900 before tax before taxation from Discontinued operations Tax effect of Tax effect of 1,719 2,320 2 exceptional items exceptional items Depreciation and 6,288 amortisation excluding exceptional items Exceptional items Impairments of property, 5,228 333 attributable to plant and equipment, BHP shareholders financial assets and intangibles excluding exceptional items Profit after taxation Net finance costs excluding 1,118 1,161 attributable to exceptional items non-controlling interests Taxation expense excluding 4,687 exceptional items Loss after taxation from 2,921 Discontinued operations To reach Underlying Underlying Net operating 8,933 23,183 18,461 our KPIs attributable profit EBITDA cash flows Why do We consider Underlying attributable Underlying EBITDA is the key alternative Operating cash flows provide insights into we use it?
profit provides better insight into the performance measure that management how we are managing costs and increasing amount of profit available to distribute uses internally to assess the performance productivity across BHP.
of BHPs segments and make decisions on the allocation of resources and, in It is also the key KPI against which our view, is more relevant to capital short-term incentive outcomes for intensive industries with long-life assets.
our senior executives are measured.
1 Includes US$2,859 million exceptional items related to Onshore US assets.
Refer to note 26 Discontinued operations in section 5.
2 Includes US$ 601 million exceptional items related to Onshore US assets.
2 Non-financial KPIs Capital management KPIs Sustainability KPIs 1 Total shareholder return Long-term credit rating Total recordable injury frequency Per million hours worked % change from previous year 3-month average 8.0 2018 A, A3 50 45.6 40 2017 A, A3 6.0 30 2016 A, A3 20 2015 A, A1 10 4.0 4.4 2014 A, A1 0 -10 2.0 -20 -30 -40 0 -50 Total shareholder return TSR shows Credit ratings are forward-looking Total recordable injury frequency TRIF the total return to the shareholder during opinions on credit risk.
Standard & Poors performance increased by five per cent the financial year.
It combines both and Moodys credit ratings express the in FY2018 to 4.4 per million hours worked, movements in share prices and dividends opinion of each agency on the ability compared to 4.2 in FY2017.
This was due paid which are assumed to be reinvested.
and willingness of BHP to meet its to an increase in low severity sprain and financial obligations in full and on time.
strain type injuries in Minerals Australia, During FY2018, TSR increased as a result which occurred primarily in Western of both the BHP share price and dividends Standard & Poors credit rating of Australia Iron Ore and Olympic Dam.
paid, resulting in a 45.6 percentage change BHP remained at the A level throughout These events were not injuries that had from FY2017.
It affirmed this rating on fatal or serious injury potential.
2018, BHP underperformed the sector peer 21 November 2017.
Moodys maintained group by 18.9 per cent and underperformed its credit rating of BHP at A3 with There were two fatalities at our operated the Index TSR by 76.9 per cent.
For more information on our For more information on our approach to capital discipline, liquidity and capital resources, refer to section 1.4.
1 Total recordable injury frequency TRIF is an indicator in highlighting broad personal injury trends and is calculated based on the number of recordable injuries per million hours worked.
TRIF includes work-related events occurring outside our operated assets from FY2015.
In FY2015, we expanded our definition of work-related activities to include events that occur outside our operated assets where we have established the work to be performed and can set and verify the health and safety standards: such as an employee driving in a BHP vehicle between two sites for work.
TRIF does not include events at non-operated joint ventures.
TRIF includes data for Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
18 BHP Annual Report 2018 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Sustainability KPIs 1 2 6 High potential injuries Greenhouse gas emissions Social investment Millions of tonnes COe US$ million 2 100 50 300 250 80 40 200 60 30 56 150 40 20 100 5.9 10 77.05 20 10.6 50 0 0 0 Scope 2 Contributions to BHP Billiton Scope 1 supported charities FY2017 baseline Cash expenditures This year we are also reporting on the rate In FY2018, we began working towards Our target is to invest not less than 6 of high potential injuries, which are injury a new five-year greenhouse gas GHG one per cent of our pre-tax profit events where there was the potential for emissions reduction target.
Our new to contribute to improved quality of a fatality.
We are currently able to report target, which took effect from 1 July 2017, life in host communities and support data for the last three financial years.
High is to maintain our total operational achievement of the United Nations potential injury trends remain a primary emissions in FY2022 at or below FY2017 Sustainable Development Goals.
focus to assess progress against our most levels while we continue to grow our Our social investment performance 3 important safety objective: to eliminate business.
Our new target builds on in FY2018 saw BHP deliver projects with fatalities.
High potential injuries declined our success in achieving our previous a continued focus on good governance, by eight per cent from FY2017 due to five-year target.
human capability and social inclusion a significant reduction in high potential Our operational emissions Scopes 1 and environment.
The total investment of injuries in Western Australia Iron Ore 4 and 2 combined in FY2018 totalled US$77.05 million includes US$7.16 million and further improvement in Petroleum.
16.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide on community contributions at our equivalent COe.
This is a 1 per cent non-operated joint ventures and 2 increase compared to the FY2017 US$1.54 million to facilitate the operation baseline and is primarily due to an of the BHP Billiton Foundation.
increase in Scope 2 emissions from our Minerals Americas business as a result of increased production at our Escondida and Pampa Norte copper assets in Chile, as well as the commissioning of the new 5 Escondida desalination plant.
For information on our approach to health and safety, and our performance, For more information on our GHG For information on our voluntary social refer to sections 1.9.
1 High potential injuries HPI are recordable injuries and first aid cases where there was the potential for a fatality.
HPI includes data for Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
2 Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been calculated on an operational control basis in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Includes data for Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
Comparisons of data over the period shown should note the demerger of South32 during FY2015 data from FY2015 onwards excludes emissions from assets that were demerged with South32 from the date of completion of the demerger 25 May 2015.
3 FY2017 is the base year for our current five-year GHG emissions reduction target, which took effect from FY2018.
The FY2017 baseline will be adjusted for any material acquisitions and divestments based on GHG emissions at the time of the transaction: carbon offsets will be used as required.
Note that FY2017 was also the final year of our previous five-year target which we achieved, which was to keep our absolute emissions below an FY2006 baseline adjusted for material acquisitions and divestments.
4 Scope 1 refers to direct GHG emissions from operated assets.
Scope 2 refers to indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and steam that is consumed by operated assets calculated using the market-based method.
5 Production-related increases in emissions were partially offset by a change to the electricity emissions factor for Minerals Americas resulting from the interconnection of Chiles northern mainly fossil fuel-based and southern which has a higher proportion of hydropower and other renewables grid systems.
6 Our voluntary social investment is calculated as one per cent of the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit.
Expenditure includes BHPs equity share for operated and non-operated joint ventures, and comprises cash, administrative costs and cost to facilitate the operation of the BHP Billiton Foundation.
Social investment figures include data for Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
3 Our contribution in FY2018 In FY2018, our total direct economic contribution was US$33.9 billion, As well as our direct economic contribution, we invested including payments to suppliers, wages and employee benefits, US$6.8 billion into our business through the purchase of property, dividends, taxes and royalties, as well as voluntary social investment plant and equipment and expenditure on exploration.
This across our host communities.
Of this, we paid US$7.8 billion investment typically has a multiplier effect by creating new jobs globally in taxes, royalties and other payments to governments.
within our operations and also for the suppliers on whom they rely.
1 Our global adjusted effective tax rate was 31.4 per cent.
Including For example, our US$3.06 billion investment in the South Flank royalties, this increases to 39.9 per cent.
This significant source of iron ore project in Western Australia will provide a significant taxation revenue assists governments to provide essential services additional economic contribution to the local economy through to their citizens and invest in their communities for the future.
opportunities for local suppliers around 85 per cent of the construction budget will be spent in Australia, with 90 per cent During FY2018, we also decreased our gross debt by US$3.7 billion of that in Western Australia.
It will also create approximately through the repayment of maturing debt, the bond repurchase 2,500 construction jobs and 600 ongoing operational roles.
program and fair value adjustments.
Total economic contribution in FY2018 2 2 Suppliers Employees Shareholders, Total Social 3 lenders and payments to investment Payments made Employee expenses investors governments to our suppliers for salary, wages Cash and for the purchase and incentives administrative costs Dividend payments Income taxes of utilities, goods Interest payments Royalty-related and services income taxes Royalties Other payments to governments US$15.8b US$3.9b US$6.4b US$7.8b US$77.1m Total economic contribution US$33.9b Figures are rounded to the nearest decimal point and include data for Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
1 For the definition of our global adjusted effective tax rate, refer to sections 1.11.4 and 1.11.5.
2 Calculated on an accrual basis.
3 Total social investment includes community contributions and associated administrative costs including US$1.54 million to facilitate the operation of the BHP Billiton Foundation, and BHPs equity share in community contributions for both operated and non-operated joint ventures.
Our social investment target is not less than one per cent of pre-tax profits invested in community programs, including cash and administrative costs, calculated on the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit.
Priorities and focus areas are outlined in our Social Investment Framework, detailed in our Sustainability Report 2018.
20 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.6 Our operating environment 1 1.6.
1 Market factors and trends We produce raw materials that are essential to modern life.
of industrialisation and urbanisation are still immature today.
Our success is tied to the sustainable growth of both emerging Technology continues to advance, creating both opportunities and developed economies and, at the same time, the commodities and threats.
International responses to climate change will evolve.
we produce are integral to driving that growth.
Against that backdrop, we are confident we have the right assets As a result, our performance is influenced by a wide range of in the right commodities, with demand diversified by end-use factors that drive a complex relationship between supply and sector and geography.
Our exploration and acquisition efforts are demand.
In line with our purpose of creating long-term shareholder critical to maintaining that advantage, as they create a pipeline value, we navigate those market factors by thinking and planning of products to meet future demand see section 1.6.
Our diverse portfolio of long-life, low-cost assets allows is inherently risky see section 1.6.
4, as the geoscience used for us to adapt to the changing needs of our customers and protect locating and accessing resources is complex and uncertain.
Exploration and acquisition are also subject to political, infrastructure and other risks that can impact the accessibility of resources.
Key trends In the near term, challenges remain.
There has been a marked Our long-term view for our markets remains positive.
Population rise in geopolitical uncertainty and protectionism, which have growth and rising living standards are expected to continue to the potential to inhibit international trade, weigh on business generate demand for energy, metals and fertilisers for decades confidence and restrain job creation and investment.
New demand centres will emerge where the twin levers Political and policy uncertainty Modest economic growth Political uncertainty has continued during FY2018.
Protectionism and political uncertainty lower The rise of US-China trade tensions and other the achievable ceiling for global economic growth protectionist measures, along with an increasingly while they remain in place.
unpredictable policy formation process in some major economies, serve to reduce consumer confidence and business certainty.
By extension, this affects investment and jobs.
Short term Balanced risks Prudently cautious Risks to prices in the overall portfolio appear roughly balanced, with mild upside The operating environment is complex, with risk in some markets offset by mild uncertainty and volatility expected to be high.
However, we remain optimistic for the long term.
New supply Steeper cost curves New supply, particularly of copper and petroleum, is The marginal cost of producing some commodities expected to be required as demand grows and is likely to rise, particularly for oil and copper, as current resources are depleted.
existing resources deplete and new resources come from lower-quality deposits that are more costly to access.
Medium term Asian growth China still offers rich opportunities due to its large scale, ongoing urbanisation and the Belt and Road Sustainable productivity rewarded initiative, despite its ongoing structural shift away As industry wide costs rise, disciplined producers are from manufacturing towards services.
India has likely to see margin benefits from accumulated significant potential for sustained high growth, investment in sustainable productivity gains.
as does populous southeast Asia.
Growth in population, wealth Urbanisation and new demand centres Demand for metals, energy and fertiliser is expected New demand centres will emerge where the twin to increase to meet the needs of the worlds growing levers of industrialisation and urbanisation are still population and rising living standards.
They include nations in South Asia, South East Asia, Africa and Latin America.
Technology Technology can substantially alter the markets Long for, and uses of, our products, or create new markets.
term This can be disruptive in both the positive and negative sense.
However, markets for essential products such as ours are typically slow to change.
Our diversified portfolio provides some protection Decarbonisation against negative disruption of demand caused by The move towards a low-carbon economy has the technological change.
From the supply perspective, potential to drive significant change.
Environmental advanced mining methods should drive further and risk concerns will drive increasing diversification efficiency, unlocking high-cost resources and of national energy sources.
1 Market factors and trends continued Global long-term outlook Key geographies Our customers are geographically diverse.
We have structured We anticipate ongoing increases in global living standards over the longer term, with urbanisation, industrialisation and trade expected our business to meet changing demands as global market dynamics shift.
Developments in a particular country can affect to underpin commodity demand.
The development of emerging economies in South and South East Asia should drive particular the demand for our products in that country and in any countries that supply goods for import to that country.
demand for industrial metals, energy and fertilisers.. China China is the largest consumer of our commodities, accounting for roughly half of our sales.
As the largest manufacturer and exporter in the world and the second-largest importer, Chinas performance is also a significant factor in the health of the global economic system.
Chinas GDP growth in the short term is expected to remain steady.
Growth is expected to slow modestly in CY2018 in line with the official GDP target range of around 6.5 per cent.
We expect to see a cooling of growth rates in the housing and automobile markets, while machinery and infrastructure are expected to provide stability as overall growth slows.
Chinas policymakers are likely to continue to seek a balance between pursuing reform and maintaining macroeconomic and financial stability.
We expect a continuation of current efforts to reduce debt and deal with housing inflation.
In the long term, Chinas economic growth is expected to slow progressively as the working age population falls and the capital stock matures, with productivity reforms offsetting these impacts to some degree.
Chinas economic structure is expected to continue to move from industry to services and growth drivers shift from investment and exports towards consumption.
This structural change is likely to produce a less volatile underlying growth rhythm in the long run.
United States As both a major producer and consumer of our products, the United States is important to our performance.
With most of our transactions denominated in US dollars, fluctuations in the dollar also influence our performance.
The US economy received a significant boost with the passing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed on 22 December 2017.
The most significant reforms include a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35 per cent to 21 per cent and a reduction of marginal income tax rates for five out of seven tax brackets.
The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated that these measures would increase the average level of output in the United States by about 0.7 per cent over the next 10 years, with changes front-loaded.
However, the monetary policy response of the Federal Reserve, including the impact on the exchange rate, is likely to offset some of the impact of the tax package.
In addition, with the rise of US-China trade tensions, protectionist policies could hurt consumer purchasing power and productivity growth.
Purchasing power is reduced through higher prices for imported goods and domestic goods with imported components.
Reduced competition and the unintended consequences of restrictive migration policies on the free flow of world-class talent would dent productivity growth.
Japan Japans demographics ageing population and extremely low birth rate and its public debt burden are constraints on long-term growth.
Without population, immigration and microeconomic reform, growth is likely to stagnate.
Beyond the boost provided by the Tokyo Olympics, in the medium term, with monetary and fiscal policy proving ineffective at spurring domestic demand, any sustained lift in Japanese growth is likely to have to come from external sources.
Eurozone Europes short-term outlook has improved, with most countries in the region now experiencing growth in domestic demand.
While financial fragilities remain, downside risks have been reduced.
Significant microeconomic reform is required in Europes southern regions to prevent longer run stagnation.
In the more internationally competitive northern regions, lower savings rates would boost growth at home and help to rebalance demand within the common currency zone.
India Indias short-term outlook seems positive, driven by consumer demand.
Economic reform that boosts the supply of basic infrastructure is critical to Indias ability to take advantage of its demographic profile and successfully urbanise.
Progress on key reforms, including GST, real estate regulation, insolvency resolution and demonetisation of high denomination bills, has been encouraging.
We expect Indias GDP growth to average more than seven per cent annually over FY2016 to FY2020, with energy and metals demand rising at a similar pace.
Exchange rates Interest rates We are exposed to exchange rate transaction risk on foreign We are exposed to interest rate risk on our outstanding borrowings currency sales and purchases.
Operating costs and costs and investments.
Our policy on interest rate exposure is to pay on of locally sourced equipment are influenced by fluctuations a US dollar floating interest rate basis.
in local currencies, primarily the Australian dollar and Chilean Our earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on the floating peso.
The majority of our sales are denominated in US dollars component of BHPs borrowings.
Our main exposure is to the and we borrow and hold surplus cash predominately in US dollars.
three-month US LIBOR benchmark, which increased by 104 basis Those transactions and balances provide no foreign exchange points from 1.3 per cent at 30 June 2017 to 2.34 per cent at exposure relative to the US dollar presentation currency of 30 June 2018. the Group.
The US dollar remained relatively stable during FY2018 against our main local currencies.
We are also exposed to exchange rate translation risk in relation to net monetary liabilities, being our foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, including certain debt and other long-term liabilities.
22 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Case study BHP and our China customers: Responding to a dynamic market Chinas four-decade long boom has restored the country The policy has been successful.
Industry-wide profitability to its traditional position as the centre of the East Asian has now improved materially.
Steel industry utilisation rates economy.
We are optimistic that it will continue to be and mill margins have increased sharply.
an opportunity-rich region for BHP.
Its influence on the This shift has implications for iron and metallurgical coal development path of other regions is increasing.
As steel mills and copper smelters transition to initiatives in particular are highly relevant to our business: more energy efficient and less carbon intensive technology, the Belt and Road Initiative and supply-side reform.
structural premiums will emerge for higher-quality products, such as the Premium Low Volatile coking coal produced The Belt and Road Initiative and commodity demand by BHPs Coal assets.
Chinas Belt and Road Initiative BRI is the core element in Chinas Eurasian foreign policy.
BRI is a development strategy Chinas increasing focus on environmental protection and that focuses on enhancing regional connectivity and ecological civilisation has prompted increasingly strict infrastructure depth across Eurasia.
Projects captured under emission standards.
This will also support the demand BRI include ports, rail, roads, bridges, power stations, oil for high-quality products that produce fewer emissions.
and gas pipelines and water management.
The initiative is Collaborating to build a sustainable industry expected to connect the countrys underdeveloped hinterland As a major metallurgical coal and iron ore supplier, BHP works to Europe via Central Asia, and to various points on the with our customers, industry and research institutions in China Indo-Pacific seaboard via land corridors through South to develop sustainable technologies.
Chinas contribution to and South East Asia.
the reduction of worldwide greenhouse gas emissions will be Understanding the risks and opportunities posed by Chinas critical for the world to limit the increase in global future path is critical to the performance of BHPs portfolio.
temperatures to two degrees Celsius.
Based on the results of the study we have carried out, We are collaborating with Peking University on research into we estimate that BRI will involve expenditure of around carbon capture and storage.
China leads the way in planning US$1.3 trillion and potentially generate up to 150 million and developing large-scale carbon capture and storage tonnes of incremental steel demand, doubling the growth projects: if commercially proven, these could be a significant rate of local steel demand from 2011 numbers.
BHP is already preparing to meet this projected China is also on track to become the global leader in clean long-term demand.
Renewable energy infrastructure will Supply-side reforms and the immediate future generate greater demand for commodities.
Electric cars More immediately, BHP is responding to changes in and decarbonisation will drive demand for quality as well the dynamics of the China market driven by the countrys as quantity.
Our industry has a responsibility to be at the supply-side reform of its steel industry.
forefront of innovation so that we safely, efficiently and sustainably deliver our commodities to the world, Since the end of the stimulus era that followed the global throughout any cycle.
financial crisis, Chinas steel mills have struggled with severe over-capacity and persistent financial difficulties.
In an attempt to end this state of affairs, beginning in late 2015 China began removing 150 million tonnes per annum of capacity.
The plan was to complete this by 2020, with obsolete and inefficient plants the first to be closed.
2 Commodity performance overview Commodity prices The following table shows the prices for our most significant commodities for the years ended 30 June 2018, 2017 and 2016.
These prices represent selected quoted prices from the relevant sources as indicated and will differ from the realised prices due to differences in quotation periods, quality of products, delivery terms and the range of quoted prices that are used for contracting sales in different markets.
For information on realised prices, refer to section 1.12.
2 Platts Dated Brent a benchmark price assessment of the spot market value of physical cargoes of North Sea light sweet crude oil.
3 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Ethane typically applies to ethane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
4 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Propane typically applies to propane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
5 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Normal Butane typically applies to butane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
6 Platts 62 per cent Fe Cost and Freight CFR China used for fines.
7 Platts Low-Vol hard coking coal Index FOB Australia representative of high-quality hard coking coals.
8 GlobalCoal FOB Newcastle 6,000kcal kg NCV typically applies to coal sales in the Asia Pacific market.
Impact of changes to commodity prices The prices we obtain for our products are a key driver of value for BHP.
Fluctuations in these commodity prices affect our results, including cash flows and asset values.
The estimated impact of changes in commodity prices in FY2018 on our key financial measures is set out below.
Impact on profit after taxation from Impact on Continuing and Underlying 1 Discontinued EBITDA operations US$M US$M US$1 bbl on oil price 46 47 US1 lb on copper price 25 36 US$1 t on iron ore price 163 233 US$1 t on metallurgical coal price 27 38 US$1 t on energy coal price 12 17 US1 lb on nickel price 12 1 Excludes data from Discontinued operations.
24 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.6.
3 Exploration 1 Our exploration program is focused on conventional petroleum and copper.
The purpose is to generate attractive, low cost, value accretive options by leveraging our competitive strengths.
Several years ago, we conducted a petroleum global endowment Magellan play.
The Victoria-1 exploration well was spud on 12 June study that informed a new conventional petroleum exploration 2018 and encountered gas.
Following completion of the Victoria-1 strategy.
The results of that study are encouraging: we have made well, the Bongos-1 exploration well was spud on 20 July 2018 and discoveries in four out of the six prospects tested over the past experienced mechanical difficulty shortly after spud.
The Bongos-2 two years, across two key basins, secured more than 100 highly exploration well was spud on 22 July 2018 and encountered prospective blocks in the Gulf of Mexico and competitively acquired hydrocarbons.
Drilling is still in progress.
the Trion discovered resource in Mexico.
In Mexico, we progressed planning for exploration and appraisal Our copper exploration program is at an earlier stage, where we wells at Trion.
The exploration and appraisal plan was endorsed continue to seek, secure and test concessions in regions such as by Pemex and approval from Mexicos National Hydrocarbon Ecuador, Canada, southwestern United States, South Australia, Commission was granted in February 2018.
Drilling of the next Chile and Peru.
appraisal well is planned for FY2019.
In Western Australia, processed 3D seismic data for the Exmouth Exploration in FY2018 sub-basin will be delivered during the September 2018 quarter and Conventional petroleum will inform the prospectivity in this area.
Our petroleum exploration program is focused in regions with significant oil and gas resource potential that have stable and For more details on conventional petroleum exploration, refer to section 1.12.1. competitive fiscal terms and offer an attractive return on investment.
We concentrate our efforts in areas that have the potential to generate high-quality assets: the Gulf of Mexico, the Caribbean Copper and Western Australia.
Copper exploration is focused on identifying and gaining access to new search spaces while we maintain research and technology In FY2018, we discovered oil in multiple horizons with the Wildling-2 activities aligned with our exploration strategy.
The field copper well, located north of our operated Shenzi asset in the US Gulf exploration activities are directed towards the discovery of large, of Mexico.
These results follow oil discoveries at Shenzi North high-quality copper deposits in Chile, Peru, Ecuador, North America in FY2016 and the Caicos well in FY2017.
We increased our equity and Australia.
These activities encompass early stage reconnaissance interest in the Murphy operated Samurai prospect, the northern work through to more advanced target definition and testing in extension of the Wildling sub-basin, from 33.33 to 50 per cent.
every country where we have exploration concessions.
In parallel, The Samurai-2 exploration well was spud on 16 April 2018 and we continue to review other jurisdictions and opportunities to encountered hydrocarbons in multiple horizons not previously partner with third parties to counter the increasing exploration observed by the Wildling-2 exploration well.
The Scimitar prospect, maturity of our existing geographies.
to the north of the Neptune field, was drilled with no commercial hydrocarbons encountered.
On 5 September 2018, we announced that we had acquired a 6.1 per cent interest in SolGold Plc, the majority owner and operator In Trinidad and Tobago, following the gas discovery at LeClerc, of the Cascabel porphyry copper-gold project in Ecuador.
we commenced Phase 2 of our deepwater exploration drilling campaign to further assess the commercial potential of the BHP exploration regions Northern Canada South West US Gulf of Mexico US Gulf of Mexico Mexico Barbados Trinidad and Tobago Ecuador Peru Western Australia Chile South Australia Petroleum exploration regions Copper exploration regions BHP Annual Report 2018 25 1.6.
3 Exploration continued Exploration expense Exploration expenditure Our brownfield minerals exploration expenditure decreased Exploration expense represents that portion of exploration expenditure that is not capitalised in accordance with our by seven per cent in FY2018 to US$112 million, while our greenfield expenditures increased to US$53 million.
Expenditure on brownfield accounting policies, as set out in note 10 Property, plant and equipment in section 5. and greenfield minerals exploration over the last three financial years is set out below.
Exploration expense for each segment over the last three financial years is set out below.
2018 2017 2016 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M 2018 2017 2016 Greenfield exploration 53 43 59 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Brownfield exploration 112 120 116 Exploration expense 1 2 Total minerals exploration 165 163 175 Petroleum 592 573 277 Copper 53 44 64 Iron Ore 44 70 74 For more information on minerals exploration, refer to section 1.12.
Coal 21 918 2 3 Group and unallocated items 7 16 1 Conventional petroleum exploration and appraisal Total Group 717 712 434 Petroleum exploration expenditure for FY2018 was US$709 million, 1 Includes US$76 million FY2017: US$102 million: FY2016: US$15 million of which US$516 million was expensed.
Expenditure on petroleum exploration expense previously capitalised, written off as impaired.
exploration over the last three financial years is set out below.
2 Excludes Onshore US exploration expenditure of nil FY2017: US$2 million: FY2016: US$11 million.
3 Group and unallocated items includes functions, other unallocated operations, 2018 2017 2016 including Potash, Nickel West and consolidation adjustments.
Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Conventional petroleum exploration 709 803 577 Our petroleum exploration program had positive results in FY2018.
We are pursuing high-quality plays in our three priority basins, and a US$750 million exploration program is planned for FY2019 as we progress testing of our future growth opportunities.
For more information on conventional petroleum exploration, refer to section 1.12.1 26 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.6.
4 Principal risks 1 Robust risk assessment and viability statement The Board has carried out a robust assessment of BHPs principal Framework: and the reserve life of BHPs minerals assets and the risks, including those that could threaten the business model,  life of our oil and gas assets.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Directors assessment also took account of additional The Directors have assessed the prospects of BHP over the stress-testing of the balance sheet against two hypothetical next three years, taking into account our current position and significant risk events: a well blow out in the Gulf of Mexico and principal risks.
A further level of robustness is added given no debt issuance is required in the three-year period and The Directors believe a three-year viability assessment period is BHP would still have access to US$6.0 billion of credit through appropriate for the following reasons.
BHP has a two-year budget, its revolving credit facility.
The Directors were also mindful a five-year plan and a longer-term life-of-asset outlook.
We have of the assessment of our portfolio against scenarios as part publicly stated our view that while commodity prices remain of BHPs corporate planning process to help identify key volatile, our short-term outlook is optimistic.
Price and exchange uncertainties facing the global natural resources sector.
rate volatility results in variability in plans and budgets.
A three-year period strikes an appropriate balance between long-term and In making this statement, the Directors considered the divestment short-term influences on performance.
The Directors have also made certain assumptions regarding the alignment of production, capital expenditure and The viability assessment took into account, among other things, operating expenditure with five-year plan forecasts and the BHPs commodity price protocols, including low-case prices: the alignment of prices with the cyclical low-price case used latest funding and liquidity update: the long-dated maturity profile in the control stress case for balance sheet testing.
of BHPs debt and the maximum debt maturing in any one year: the Group-level risk profile and the mitigating actions available Taking account of these matters, and BHPs current position and should particular risks materialise: the regular Board strategy and principal risks, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that portfolio discussions which address the range of outcomes under BHP will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities the Capital Allocation Framework: the flexibility in BHPs capital as they fall due.
and exploration expenditure programs under the Capital Allocation Risk factors External risks Fluctuations in commodity prices including sustained price shifts and impacts of ongoing global economic volatility may negatively affect our results, including cash flows and asset values The prices we obtain for our minerals, oil and gas are determined Volatility in global economic growth, particularly in developing by, or linked to, prices in world markets, which have historically economies, has the potential to adversely affect future demand been subject to significant volatility.
Our usual policy is to sell and prices for commodities.
Geopolitical uncertainty and our products at the prevailing market prices.
The diversity protectionism have the potential to inhibit international trade provided by our relatively broad portfolio of commodities does and weigh on business confidence, which creates the risk of not necessarily insulate BHP from the effects of price changes.
constraints on our ability to trade in certain markets and has Fluctuations in commodity prices can occur due to price shifts the potential to increase price volatility.
reflecting underlying global economic and geopolitical factors, The impact of sustained price shifts and short-term price volatility, industry demand, increased supply due to the development including the effects of unwinding the sustained monetary stimulus of new productive resources or increased production from existing in the United States and ongoing and protracted uncertainty resources, technological change, product substitution and national surrounding the details of the United Kingdoms exit from the tariffs.
We are particularly exposed to price movements in minerals, European Union, creates the risk that our financial and operating oil and gas.
For example, a US$1 per tonne decline in the average results, including cash flows and asset values, will be materially iron ore price and US$1 per barrel decline in the average oil price and adversely affected by short-term or long-term volatility in the would have an estimated impact on FY2018 profit after taxation prevailing prices of our products.
from Continuing and Discontinued operations of US$163 million and US$46 million, respectively.
For more information in relation to commodity price impacts, refer to section 1.6.
Our financial results may be negatively affected by exchange rate fluctuations The geographic diversity of the countries in which our assets of our sales are denominated and the currency in which we are located means our assets, earnings and cash flows are present our financial performance.
Operating costs are influenced influenced by a variety of currencies.
Fluctuations in the exchange by the currencies of those countries where our assets and facilities rates of those currencies may have a significant impact on our are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of financial results.
The US dollar is the currency in which the majority imported equipment and services are determined.
Reduction in Chinese demand may negatively impact our results The Chinese market has been driving global materials demand Iron Ore, 31 per cent Copper, 15 per cent Coal and two per cent and pricing over the past decade.
Sales into China generated Nickel reported in Group and Unallocated.
A continued slowing US$22.9 billion FY2017: US$18.9 billion or 52.6 per cent FY2017: in Chinas economic growth and demand could result in lower 52.2 per cent of our revenue in FY2018, on a continuing operations prices for our products and materially and adversely impact our basis.
FY2018 sales into China by commodity included 52 per cent results, including cash flows.
4 Principal risks continued External risks Actions by governments, or courts, regulatory change, political events or alleged compliance breaches in the countries in which we operate or assets in which we have an interest could have a negative impact on our business There are varying degrees of political, judicial and commercial Infrastructure, such as rail, ports, power and water, is critical to stability in the locations in which we have operated assets and our business operations.
We have assets or potential development non-operated joint ventures around the globe.
At the same time, projects in countries where government-provided infrastructure our exposure to emerging markets may involve additional risks or regulatory regimes for access to infrastructure, including our that could have an adverse effect on the profitability of an own privately operated infrastructure, may be inadequate, uncertain operation.
Risks in the locations in which we have operated assets or subject to legislative change.
The impact of climate change may and non-operated joint ventures could include terrorism, civil increase competition for, and the regulation of, limited resources, unrest, judicial activism, regulatory investigation or inquiry, such as power and water.
These factors could materially and nationalisation, protectionism, renegotiation or nullification of adversely affect the expansion of our business and ability existing contracts, leases, permits or other agreements, imposts, of our assets to operate efficiently.
controls or prohibitions on the production or use of certain We own assets or interests in countries where land tenure can products, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital and be uncertain and disputes may arise in relation to ownership changes in laws and policy, as well as other unforeseeable risks.
and use, including in respect of Indigenous rights.
For example, Risks relating to bribery and corruption, including possible delays in Australia, the Native Title Act 1993 provides for the establishment or disruption resulting from a refusal to make so-called facilitation and recognition of native title under certain circumstances.
payments, may be prevalent in some of the countries where New or evolving regulations and international standards our assets are located.
If any of our major operated assets or can be complex, difficult to predict and difficult to influence.
non-operated joint ventures are affected by one or more of these Potential compliance costs, litigation expenses, regulatory risks, it could have a material adverse effect on BHPs overall delays, rehabilitation expenses and operational impacts and operating results, financial condition and prospects.
costs arising from government action, court decisions, regulatory Our operated assets and non-operated joint ventures are based change and evolving standards could materially and adversely on material long-term investments that are dependent on long-term affect BHPs future results, prospects and our financial condition.
fiscal stability, and could be adversely affected by changes in fiscal We conduct our business in a global environment that legislation, changes in interpretation of fiscal legislation, periodic encompasses multiple jurisdictions and complex regulatory challenges and disagreements with tax authorities and legal frameworks.
Our governance and compliance processes which proceedings relating to fiscal matters.
The natural resources include the review of internal controls over financial reporting industry continues to be regarded as a source of tax revenue and specific internal controls in relation to trade and financial and can also be adversely affected by broader fiscal measures sanctions, market manipulation, competition, data protection applying to businesses generally.
BHP is currently involved and privacy, offers of anything of value to government officials in a number of uncertain tax and royalty matters.
and representatives of state-owned enterprises and disclosure Our business is affected by new and evolving government of state or commercial secrets may not operate to identify regulations and international standards, such as controls on financial misstatements or prevent potential breaches of law, imports, exports, prices and greenhouse gas emissions.
The nature or of accounting or governance practice.
Our Code of Conduct, of the industries in which we operate means many of our activities together with our mandatory policies such as the anti-corruption, are highly regulated by laws relating to health, safety, environment trade and financial sanctions and competition policies, may and community impacts.
Increasing requirements relating to not prevent instances of fraudulent behaviour and dishonesty regulatory, environmental, social or community approvals can nor guarantee compliance with legal or regulatory requirements.
potentially result in significant delays or interruptions and may This may lead to regulatory fines, disgorgement of profits, adversely affect the economics of new mining, oil and gas litigation, allegations or investigations by regulatory authorities, projects, the expansion of existing assets and operations and loss of operating licences and or reputational damage.
the performance of our operated assets and non-operated joint ventures.
As regulatory standards and expectations are constantly For more information, refer to note 5 Income tax expense in section 5. developing, we may be exposed to increased regulation and compliance costs to meet new operating and reporting standards, as well as unforeseen closure and site rehabilitation expenses.
Business risks Failure to discover or acquire new resources, maintain reserves or develop new assets could negatively affect our future results and financial condition The demand for our products and production from our assets inventory size and quality, drilling results, commodity prices, results in existing reserves being depleted over time.
As our drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and revenues and profits are derived from our minerals, oil and equipment, lease expirations, land access, transportation pipelines, gas assets, our future results and financial condition are directly railroads and other infrastructure constraints, regulatory approvals related to the success of our exploration and acquisition efforts, and other factors.
and our ability to generate reserves to meet our future production There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mineral, requirements at a competitive cost.
Exploration activity occurs oil and gas reserves.
Geological assumptions about our mineralisation adjacent to established assets and in new regions, in developed that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly and less-developed countries.
These activities may increase land when new information becomes available.
Estimates of reserves tenure, infrastructure and related political risks.
A failure in our that will be recovered, or the cost at which we anticipate reserves ability to discover or acquire new resources, maintain reserves will be recovered, are based on uncertain assumptions.
The uncertain or develop new assets or operations in sufficient quantities global financial outlook may affect economic assumptions related to maintain or grow the current level of our reserves could to reserve recovery and may require reserve restatements.
negatively affect our future results, financial condition and Changes to reserve estimates could affect our asset carrying prospects.
Deterioration in commodities pricing may make values and may also negatively impact our future financial some existing reserves uneconomic.
Our actual exploration condition and results.
drilling activities and future drilling budget will depend on our 28 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Business risks 1 Potential changes to our portfolio of assets through merger, acquisition and divestment activity may have a material adverse effect on our future results and financial condition We regularly review the composition of our asset portfolio and from unforeseen liabilities arising from changes to the portfolio: time to time may add assets to, or divest assets from, the portfolio.
sales revenues and operational performance not meeting There are a number of risks associated with acquisitions or our expectations: divestments.
These include: anticipated synergies or cost savings being delayed or not loss of value from a poor investment decision: being achieved: loss of potential value from a missed investment opportunity: inability to retain key staff and transaction-related costs being adverse market reaction to such changes or the timing or terms more than anticipated.
on which changes are made: These factors could materially and adversely affect our reputation, the imposition of adverse regulatory conditions and obligations: future results and financial condition.
commercial objectives not being achieved as expected: Increased costs and schedule delays may adversely affect our development projects Although we devote significant time and resources to our project delay and market conditions may change, thereby making a project planning, approval and review processes, many of our development less profitable than initially projected.
projects are highly complex and rely on factors that are outside In addition, we may fail to develop and manage projects as our control, which may cause us to underestimate the cost or effectively as we anticipate and unforeseen challenges may emerge.
time required to complete a project.
For instance, incidents or Any of these may result in increased capital costs and schedule unexpected conditions encountered during development projects delays at our development projects and materially and adversely may cause setbacks or cost overruns, required licences, permits affect anticipated financial returns.
or authorisations to build a project may be unobtainable at anticipated costs, or may be obtained only after significant Financial risks If our liquidity and cash flow deteriorate significantly, it could adversely affect our ability to fund our major capital programs We seek to maintain a strong balance sheet.
However, fluctuations our liquidity and cash reserves, interest rate costs on borrowed in commodity prices and ongoing global economic volatility could debt, future access to financial capital markets and the ability materially and adversely affect our future cash flows and ability to fund current and future major capital projects could be to access capital from financial markets at acceptable pricing.
If our key financial ratios and credit ratings are not maintained, We may not fully recover our investments in mining, oil and gas assets, which may require financial write-downs One or more of our assets may be adversely affected by changed us to fail to recover all or a portion of our investment in mining, market or industry structures, commodity prices, technical oil and gas assets and may require financial write-downs, including operating difficulties, inability to recover our mineral, oil or gas goodwill, adversely affecting our financial results.
reserves and increased operating cost levels.
These may cause The commercial counterparties with whom we transact may not meet their obligations, which may negatively affect our results We contract with many commercial and financial counterparties, or financial counterparty.
In addition, customers, suppliers, including end-customers, suppliers and financial institutions in the contractors or joint venture partners may fail to perform against context of global financial markets that remain volatile.
We maintain existing contracts and obligations.
Non-supply of key inputs, a one book approach with commercial counterparties to make such as explosives, tyres, mining and mobile equipment, diesel sure all credit exposures are quantified and assessed consistently.
and other key consumables, may unfavourably impact costs and However, our existing counterparty credit controls may not prevent production at our assets.
These factors could negatively affect a material loss due to credit exposure to a major customer segment our financial condition and results of assets.
Operational risks Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes may adversely impact our assets, functions or people We have onshore and offshore extractive, processing and logistical If an operational crisis occurs, the failure to provide adequate operations in many geographic locations.
Our key port facilities are communications response to our external stakeholders could located at Coloso and Antofagasta in Chile and Port Hedland and result in Group-wide reputational damage.
We have four underground mines, including Our minerals, oil and gas assets may also be subject to unexpected one underground coal mine.
Our operational processes may be natural catastrophes, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and subject to operational accidents, such as fires, explosions or gas tsunamis.
Our northwest Western Australia Iron Ore, Queensland leaks, road and vehicle incidents, port and shipping incidents, Coal and Gulf of Mexico oil and gas assets are located in areas aircraft incidents, underground mine and processing plant fire subject to cyclones or hurricanes.
Our Chilean copper and and explosion, rock fall incidents in underground mining operations, Peruvian base metals assets are located in a known earthquake open-cut pit wall or tailings waste storage facility failures, loss of and tsunami zone.
power supply, railroad incidents, loss of well control, environmental We operate corporate offices and service centres globally.
pollution, mechanical critical equipment failures, personnel A serious natural, civil unrest, terror or criminal event in any conveyance equipment failures in underground operations and of these locations could have an impact on the services cyber or conventional security attacks on BHPs infrastructure.
provided to the Group and on our people and the community.
4 Principal risks continued Operational risks Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes may adversely impact our assets, functions or people continued Based on our risk management and the limited value of external litigation and other claims.
The impact of these events could lead insurance in the natural resource sector, our risk financing to disruptions in production, increased costs and loss of facilities.
insurance approach is to minimise or not purchase external Where external insurance is purchased, third party claims insurance for certain risks, including property damage and arising from these events may exceed the limit of liability of the business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, marine cargo, insurance policies we have in place.
Additionally, any uninsured construction, primary public liability and employee benefits.
or underinsured losses could have a material adverse effect Existing business continuity plans may not provide protection for on our financial position or results of assets.
all the costs that arise from such events, including clean-up costs, Information technology and operational technology services are subject to cybersecurity risks and threats that may materially affect our business and reputation Our strategy of owning and operating large, long-life and low-cost incidents for example, due to human error.
Such events may assets is underpinned by our ability to become fully integrated and result in misappropriation of funds, an impact on asset productivity, highly automated, from resource to market.
Many of our business adverse impacts to the health and safety of people, environmental and operational processes are heavily dependent on traditional damage, poor product quality, loss of intellectual property, and emerging technologies to improve safety, lower cost and disclosure of commercially or personally sensitive information, unlock value.
regulatory fines and or other costs and reputational damage.
Increases in the frequency and magnitude of global cyber events Despite reasonable attempts to protect us from cyber events, pose potential increased risk of sensitive information being we are frequently subject to targeted and non-targeted cyberattacks compromised, as well as unplanned and or extended outages and may be vulnerable to these in the future.
In FY2018, there to our operations or to the transportation of other infrastructure were no cyber events that led to a significant breach of our utilised by our operations.
These events may include but are business-critical technology environment or a material disclosure not limited to exploitation of system vulnerabilities, malware, of market-sensitive information.
phishing and other sophisticated cyberattacks, and other Our potential liability from litigation and other actions resulting from the Samarco dam failure is subject to significant uncertainty and cannot be reliably estimated at this time, but could have a material adverse impact on our business On 5 November 2015, the Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Vale and iron ore operations experienced a tailings dam failure that resulted Samarco, entered into a Framework Agreement with the Brazilian in a release of mine tailings, flooding the communities of Bento Authorities to establish a foundation Fundao Renova that will Rodrigues, Gesteira and Paracatu and impacting other communities develop and execute environmental and socio-economic programs downstream and the Rio Doce.
Samarco is a joint venture owned to remediate and provide compensation for damage caused by equally by BHP Billiton Brasil Limitada BHP Billiton Brasil and the Samarco dam failure.
A committee Interfederative Committee Vale S. A. Vale.
comprising representatives from the Brazilian Federal and State Governments, local municipalities, environmental agencies, The Samarco dam failure and subsequent suspension of Samarcos impacted communities and Public Defence Office oversees the mining and processing operations continue to impact our financial activities of Fundao Renova in order to monitor, guide and assess results and will be disclosed as an exceptional item for the year the progress of actions agreed in the Framework Agreement.
ended 30 June 2018, as described in section 1.8 and in note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure in section 5.
In light of the significant uncertainties surrounding the nature and timing of ongoing future operations at Samarco and based Mining and processing operations remain suspended following on currently available information, at 30 June 2018, BHP Billiton the dam failure.
Samarco is currently progressing plans to resume Brasils provision for its obligations under the Framework operations, however, significant uncertainties surrounding the Agreement is US$1.3 billion, before tax and after discounting nature and timing of any resumption of operations remain, including 30 June 2017, US$1.1 billion.
as a result of Samarcos significant debt obligations.
For financial information relating to Samarco, refer to note 28 Investments The measurement of the provision requires the use of significant accounted for using the equity method in section 5. judgments, estimates and assumptions and may be affected by, among other factors, potential changes in scope of work and BHP Billiton Brasil is among the defendants named in a number funding amounts required under the Framework Agreement, of legal proceedings initiated by individuals, non-governmental including the impact of decisions of the Interfederative Committee organisations NGOs, corporations and governmental entities along with further technical analysis and community participation in Brazilian federal and state courts following the Samarco dam required under the Preliminary Agreement defined below and failure.
The other defendants include Samarco, Vale and Fundao Governance Agreement defined below, the outcome of the Renova.
The lawsuits seek various remedies, including rehabilitation ongoing negotiations with State and Federal Prosecutors, actual costs, compensation to injured individuals and families of the costs incurred in respect of programs delivered, resolution of deceased, recovery of personal and property losses, moral uncertainty in respect of operational restart, updates to discount damages and injunctive relief.
and foreign exchange rates, resolution of existing and potential Among the claims brought against BHP Billiton Brasil was a public legal claims and the status of the Framework Agreement and civil claim commenced by the Federal Government of Brazil, the the renegotiation process provided in the Governance Agreement states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais, and certain other public defined below.
As a result, future actual expenditures may authorities Brazilian Authorities on 30 November 2015, seeking differ from the amounts currently provided and changes to key the establishment of a fund of up to R$20 billion approximately assumptions and estimates could result in a material impact US$5.2 billion in aggregate for clean-up costs and damages on the amount of the provision in future reporting periods.
This claim has now been settled see below.
In addition, a R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion claim has been brought by the Federal Public Prosecution Service on 3 May 2016 for reparation, compensation and moral damages in relation to the Samarco dam failure R$155bn Federal Public Prosecution Office claim.
30 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Operational risks 1 Our potential liability from litigation and other actions resulting from the Samarco dam failure is subject to significant uncertainty and cannot be reliably estimated at this time, but could have a material adverse impact on our business continued On 18 January 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Vale and The Interim Security provided under the Preliminary Agreement Samarco, entered into a Preliminary Agreement with the Federal is maintained for a period of 30 months under the Governance Prosecutors Office in Brazil, which outlines the process and Agreement, after which Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil timeline for further negotiations towards a settlement regarding will be required to provide security of an amount equal to the R$20 billion Public Civil Claim and the R$155 billion Federal Fundao Renovas annual budget up to a limit of R$2.2 billion.
As noted above, BHP Billiton Brasil has been named as a defendant Under the Preliminary Agreement, BHP Billiton Brasil, Samarco in numerous other lawsuits that are at early stages of proceedings.
and Vale agreed interim security Interim Security comprising The lawsuits seek various remedies, including rehabilitation costs, R$1.3 billion approximately US$335 million in insurance bonds, compensation to injured individuals and families of the deceased, R$100 million approximately US$25 million in liquid assets, recovery of personal and property losses and injunctive relief.
a charge of R$800 million approximately US$210 million over In addition, government inquiries and investigations relating Samarcos assets, and R$200 million approximately US$50 million to the Samarco dam failure have been commenced by numerous to be allocated within the next four years through existing agencies of the Brazilian Government and are ongoing, including Framework Agreement programs in the Municipalities of Barra criminal investigations by the federal and state police, and Longa, Rio Doce, Santa Cruz do Escalvado and Ponte Nova.
On 24 January 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil, Samarco and Vale provided Other lawsuits and investigations are at the early stages of the Interim Security to the Court, which was to remain in place proceedings, including two shareholder actions filed in Australia until the earlier of 30 June 2017 and the date that a final settlement against BHP and a Samarco bondholder action filed in the arrangement was agreed between the Federal Prosecutors, United States against Samarco, Vale, BHP Billiton Brasil and BHP.
and BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco.
Following a series Additional lawsuits and government investigations relating to of extensions, the parties reached an agreement in the form the Samarco dam failure may be brought against BHP Billiton Brasil of the Governance Agreement summarised below.
and possibly other BHP entities in Brazil or other jurisdictions.
On 25 June 2018, Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil, the other Given the status of the legal proceedings referred to above, it parties to the Framework Agreement, the Public Prosecutors is not possible to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable Office and the Public Defense Office agreed an arrangement estimate of potential future exposures for BHP, unless otherwise which settles the R$20 billion Public Civil Claim, enhances stated.
Ultimately, all of these legal matters could have a material community participation in decisions related to the remediation adverse impact on BHPs business, competitive position, cash and compensation programs Programs under the Framework flows, prospects, liquidity and shareholder returns.
Agreement, and establishes a process to renegotiate those Our potential costs and liabilities in relation to the Samarco Programs over two years and to progress settlement of the dam failure are subject to a high degree of uncertainty and cannot R$155 billion Federal Public Prosecution Office claim Governance be reliably estimated at this time.
The total amounts that we may Agreement.
The Governance Agreement was ratified by the be required to pay will be dependent on many factors, including 12th Federal Court of Minas Gerais on 8 August 2018, settling the the timing and nature of a potential restart of operations at Samarco, R$20 billion Public Civil Claim and suspending the R$155 billion the number of claims that become payable, the quantum of any Federal Public Prosecution Office claim for a period of two years fines levied, the outcome of litigation and the amount and timing from the date of ratification.
of payments under any judgements or settlements.
Nevertheless, During the two-year period, the parties will work together to such potential costs and liabilities could have a material adverse design a single process for the renegotiation of the Programs effect on our business, competitive position, cash flows, prospects, and progress settlement of the R$155 billion Federal Public liquidity and shareholder returns.
For information on the Samarco dam failure, The renegotiation of the Programs will be based on certain refer to section 1.8. agreed principles, such as full reparation consistent with Brazilian law, the requirement for a technical basis for any proposed For more information on some of the legal proceedings relating to the Samarco dam failure, refer to section 6.5. changes, consideration of findings from the socio-economic and socio-environmental experts appointed by Samarco, Vale For more information on the shareholder and bondholder and BHP Billiton Brasil, consideration of findings from experts actions and other lawsuits relating to the Samarco dam failure, appointed by the Prosecutors, and consideration of the feedback refer to section 6.5. from impacted communities.
During the renegotiation period and up until revisions to the Programs are agreed, the Fundao Renova will continue to implement the Programs in accordance with the terms of the Framework Agreement and the Governance Agreement.
4 Principal risks continued Operational risks Cost pressures and reduced productivity could negatively impact our operating margins and expansion plans Cost pressures may continue to occur across the resources unions will pursue increases to conditions of employment, industry.
As the prices for our products are determined by the including wages, and or claims for greater union involvement global commodity markets, we do not generally have the ability in business decision-making.
to offset these cost pressures through corresponding price In circumstances where a collective agreement is being increases, which can adversely affect our operating margins.
renegotiated, industrial action is permitted under the Fair Work Although our efforts to reduce costs and a number of key cost Act.
Industrial action and any subsequent settlement to mitigate inputs are commodity price-linked, the inability to reduce costs associated commercial damage can adversely affect productivity and a timing lag could materially and adversely impact our and customer perceptions as a reliable supplier, and contribute operating margins for an extended period.
Some of our assets, such as those producing copper, are energy The industrial relations environment in Chile remains challenging or water intensive.
As a result, BHPs costs and earnings could and it is possible that we will see further disruptions.
Recent be materially and adversely affected by rising costs or supply changes to labour legislation in Chile have resulted in the right interruptions.
These could include the unavailability of energy, to have a single negotiating body across different operations fuel or water due to a variety of reasons, including fluctuations owned by a single company.
This change may lead to a higher in climate, inadequate infrastructure capacity, interruptions in risk of operational stoppages that can contribute to an increase supply due to equipment failure or other causes and the inability in costs and a reduction in productivity.
to extend supply contracts on economic terms.
More broadly, cost and productivity pressures on BHP and Many of our Australian employees have conditions of employment, our contractors and sub-contractors may increase the risk of including wages, governed by the operation of the Australian Fair industrial action and employment litigation.
These factors could Work Act 2009.
Conditions of employment are often contained lead to increased operating costs at existing assets, interruptions within collective agreements that are required to be renegotiated or delays and could negatively impact our operating margins on expiry typically every three to four years.
In some instances, and expansion plans.
under the operation of the Fair Work Act it can be expected that Non-operated joint ventures have their own management and operating standards, joint venture partners or other companies managing those non-operated joint ventures may take action contrary to our standards or fail to adopt standards equivalent to BHPs standards, and commercial counterparties may not comply with our standards We have interests in assets that are operated and managed could lead to operational incidents or accidents, materially higher by joint venture partners or by other companies.
Those joint venture costs and reduced production, litigation and regulatory action, partners or other companies have their own management and delays or interruptions and adversely impact our results, prospects operating standards, controls and procedures, including their and reputation.
own health, safety, environment and community HSEC standards Commercial counterparties, such as our suppliers, contractors and may take action contrary to BHPs management and operating and customers, may not comply with our HSEC standards standards, controls and procedures.
Failure by those joint venture or other standards we apply causing adverse reputational partners or other companies to adopt equivalent standards, and legal impacts.
controls and procedures at these non-operated joint ventures Sustainability risks Safety, health, environmental and community impacts, incidents or accidents may adversely affect our people, assets and reputation or licence to operate Safety Given the global location of our assets, we could be affected by a public health emergency such as influenza or other Potential safety events that may have a material adverse impact infectious disease outbreaks in any of the regions in which on our people, assets, reputation or licence to operate include fire, our assets are located.
explosion or rock fall incidents in underground mining operations, personnel conveyance equipment failures in underground Environment operations, aircraft incidents, road incidents involving buses and Our assets by their nature have the potential to adversely impact light vehicles, incidents between light vehicles and mobile mining air quality, biodiversity, water resources and related ecosystem equipment, shipping or vessel incidents, ground control failures, services.
Changes in scientific understanding of these impacts, uncontrolled tailings containment breaches, well blowouts, regulatory requirements or stakeholder expectations may prevent, explosions or gas leaks and accidents involving inadequate delay or reverse project approvals and result in increased costs isolation, working from heights or lifting operations.
for mitigation, offsets or compensatory actions.
Our employees, contractors and third parties may be subjected Environmental incidents have the potential to lead to material to safety risks when travelling to and from sites or while onsite adverse impacts on our people, communities, assets, reputation at an asset or corporate office.
These include uncontrolled tailings Health containment breaches, subsidence from mining activities, escape of polluting substances and uncontrolled releases of hydrocarbons.
Health risks faced include fatigue, musculoskeletal illnesses and occupational exposure to substances or agents, including noise, We provide for operational closure and site rehabilitation.
Our silica, coal mine dust, diesel exhaust particulate, nickel and operating and closed facilities are required to have closure plans.
sulphuric acid mist, radiation and mental illness.
Longer-term Changes in regulatory or community expectations may result in health impacts may arise due to unanticipated workplace exposures the relevant plans not being adequate.
This may increase financial or historical exposures of our workforce or communities to provisioning and costs at the affected assets.
These effects may create future financial compensation obligations, adversely impact our people, reputation, regulatory approvals or licence to operate and affect the way we conduct our assets.
32 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Sustainability risks 1 Safety, health, environmental and community impacts, incidents or accidents may adversely affect our people, assets and reputation or licence to operate continued Climate change Community The physical and non-physical impacts of climate change may Our assets and activities may directly impact communities affect our assets, productivity and the markets in which we sell and also risk the potential for adverse impacts on human rights our products.
This includes acute and chronic changes in weather or breaches of other international laws or conventions.
patterns, policy and regulatory change, technological development Local communities may become dissatisfied with our operations and market and economic responses.
Fossil fuel-related emissions or oppose our new development projects, including through are a significant source of greenhouse gases contributing to legal action, leading to potential schedule delay, increased costs climate change.
We produce fossil fuels such as coal, oil and and reduced production.
Community-related risks may include gas for sale to customers.
We use fossil fuels in our mining and community protests or civil unrest, adverse human rights impacts, processing operations either directly or through the purchase community health and safety complaints and grievances, of fossil fuel based electricity.
shareholder activism and civil society activism.
In extreme cases A number of national governments have already introduced, the risks may affect viability, adversely impacting our reputation or are contemplating the introduction of, regulatory responses and licence to operate.
to greenhouse gas emissions, including from the extraction Hydraulic fracturing and combustion of fossil fuels to address the impacts of climate Our Onshore US assets have involved hydraulic fracturing, which change.
This includes countries where we have assets such includes using water, sand and a small amount of chemicals to as Australia, the United States and Chile, as well as customer fracture hydrocarbon-bearing subsurface rock formations, to allow markets such as China, India and Europe.
In addition, the the flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.
We depend on the use international community completed a global climate agreement of hydraulic fracturing techniques in our Onshore US drilling at the 21st Conference of the Parties COP21 in Paris in December and completion programs.
The absence of regulatory certainty, global policy inconsistencies and the challenges presented by managing In the United States, the hydraulic fracturing process is typically our portfolio across a variety of regulatory frameworks have regulated by relevant US state regulatory bodies.
Arkansas, Louisiana the potential to adversely affect our assets and supply chain.
and Texas the states in which we currently operate have adopted From a mediumto long-term perspective, we are likely to see various laws and regulations, or issued regulatory guidance, some adverse changes in the cost position of our greenhouse concerning hydraulic fracturing.
Some states are considering gas-intensive assets as a result of regulatory impacts in the changes to regulations in relation to permitting, public disclosure, countries where we do business.
These proposed regulatory and or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing mechanisms may adversely affect our assets directly, or indirectly and related operations, including the possibility of outright bans through our suppliers and customers.
Assessments of the potential on the process.
impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain given On 27 July 2018, BHP announced that we had entered into the wide scope of potential regulatory change in the many agreements for the sale of our entire interest in the Eagle Ford, countries in which we do business.
Examples of this include Haynesville, Permian and Fayetteville Onshore US oil and gas assets.
China, which launched the worlds largest emissions trading system Both sales are subject to the satisfaction of customary regulatory in 2017, and Australia, where the Federal Government repealed a approvals and conditions precedent.
We expect completion carbon tax in 2014 and introduced new legislation to take its place.
of both transactions to occur by the end of October 2018.
There is a potential gap between the current valuation of fossil fuel While we have not experienced a material delay or substantially reserves on the balance sheets of companies and in global equities higher operating costs in our Onshore US assets as a result markets and the reduced value that could result if a significant of current regulatory requirements, we cannot predict whether proportion of reserves were rendered incapable of extraction additional federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted in an economically viable fashion due to technology, regulatory prior to the completion of the two sale transactions and, if so, or market responses to climate change.
The Groups asset carrying what such actions would require or prohibit.
Additional legislation values may be affected by any resulting adverse impacts to reserve or regulation could subject those assets to delays and increased estimates and our inability to make productive use of such reserves costs, or prohibit certain activities prior to completion of the may also negatively impact our financial condition and results.
Separately, additional legislation or regulation could The growth of alternative energy supply options, such as impose liabilities on previous owners or operators of properties renewables and nuclear, could also present a change to the where hydraulic fracturing has taken place, which may be applicable energy mix that may reduce the value of fossil fuel assets.
to BHP notwithstanding the subsequent sale of those assets.
The physical effects of climate change on our assets may include Governance and compliance changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, rising sea levels, Our processes are mandated and governed by the global increased storm intensities and higher temperatures.
These effects Our Requirements standards and supporting strategies and could materially and adversely affect the financial performance frameworks.
A failure to maintain effective global frameworks of our assets.
and associated controls may lead to a major health, safety or environmental incident.
For more information, refer to section 7.10.
5 Management of principal risks The scope of our operations and the number of industries in which we operate and engage mean that a range of factors may impact our results.
Principal risks that could negatively affect our results and performance are described in section 1.6.
Our approach to managing these risks is outlined below.
Principal risk area External risks Risks arise from fluctuations in commodity prices and demand in major markets in particular China or changes in currency exchange rates and actions by governments, including new regulations and standards, alleged compliance breaches and political events that impact long-term fiscal stability Risk management approach Our Code of Conduct sets out requirements related to working with integrity, including dealings with government officials and The diversification of our portfolio of commodities, markets, third parties as described in section 2.16.
Processes and controls geographies and currencies is a key strategy for reducing the effects are in place for the internal control over financial reporting, including of volatility.
1 describes external factors and trends under Sarbanes-Oxley.
We have established anti-corruption, affecting our results and note 20 Financial risk management competition and trade sanctions performance requirements, in section 5 outlines BHPs financial risk management strategy, which are overseen by the Ethics and Compliance function as including market, commodity and currency risk.
The Financial described in section 1.9.
The Disclosure Committee oversees Risk Management Committee oversees these risks as described our compliance with securities dealing obligations and continuous in sections 2.14 and 2.15.
We also engage with governments and and periodic disclosure obligations, as described in sections 2.14, other key stakeholders to make sure the potential adverse impacts 2.15 and 2.17. of proposed fiscal, tax, resource investment, infrastructure access, regulatory changes and evolving international standards are understood and, where possible, mitigated.
Principal risk area Business risks Risks include the inherent uncertainty of identifying and proving reserves, adding and divesting assets and managing our capital development projects Risk management approach that assesses the competitive advantage of our business, enables identification of risks and opportunities for our portfolio that allows Our Geoscience and Resource Engineering Centres of Excellence us to challenge bias when evaluating future growth options and manage assurance and technical leadership for Mineral Resource attractive growth options under a range of divergent future states.
development and Ore Reserves reporting as described in section Our Capital Allocation Framework provides the structure and 6.3.
Our governance over reporting of Petroleum reserves is governance for adding growth options to our portfolio.
Our global Projects function through its regional Project development We have established investment approval processes that apply and delivery teams and the Projects Centre of Excellence aims to all investment decisions, including mergers and acquisitions to make sure projects are safe, predictable and competitive.
An Investment Committee oversees these as described in sections 2.14 and 2.15.
We have an ongoing strategy practice Principal risk area Financial risks Continued volatility in global financial markets may adversely impact future cash flows, our ability to adequately access and source capital from financial markets and our credit rating.
Volatility may impact planned expenditures, as well as the ability to recover investments in mining, oil and gas projects.
In addition, the commercial counterparties customers, suppliers, contractors and financial institutions we transact with may, due to adverse market conditions, fail to meet their contractual obligations Risk management approach We use Cash Flow at Risk analysis to monitor volatilities and key financial ratios.
Credit limits and review controls are established We seek to maintain a strong balance sheet, supported by our for all customers and financial counterparties.
The Financial Risk portfolio risk management strategy.
As part of this strategy, the Management Committee oversees these, as described in sections diversification of our portfolio reduces overall cash flow volatility.
Note 20 Financial risk management in section 5 Commodity prices and exchange rates are not generally hedged, outlines our financial risk management strategy.
and wherever possible, we take the prevailing market price.
34 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Principal risk area Operational risks 1 Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes may adversely affect our assets.
Information technology and operational technology services are subject to cybersecurity risks and threats that may materially affect our business and reputation.
Our potential liabilities from litigation and other actions resulting from the Samarco dam failure are subject to significant uncertainty and cannot be reliably estimated at this time.
Operating cost pressures and reduced productivity could negatively affect operating margins and expansion plans.
Non-operated joint ventures may not comply with our standards By applying our risk management processes, we seek to identify having transitioned to the Risk and Audit Committee, the catastrophic operational risks and implement the critical controls Sustainability Committee and the Board, as appropriate.
The Board and performance requirements to maintain control effectiveness.
and its Committees continue to examine and oversee the progress Business continuity plans and crisis and emergency management of actions in relation to the management of tailings dams refer plans are established to mitigate consequences.
Consistent with to section 1.8 and the BHP Sustainability Report 2018 for more our portfolio risk management approach, we continue to be largely information and non-operated joint venture arrangements, self-insured for losses arising from property damage, business the contribution to the Fundao Renova, the availability of funding interruption and construction.
to Samarco and continued negotiations in respect of the framework for the settlement of the public civil claims.
Given we rely heavily on information technology and operational technology to operate assets, we employ a number of measures We aim to maintain adequate operating margins through our to protect, detect and respond to cyber events.
A cyber risk strategic objective to position BHP to match our values, capabilities management strategy has been developed to address how and competitive resources to the evolving needs of markets, we maintain the security of our technology assets that support to create sustainable long-term value for shareholders and our operations across the globe.
This strategy includes activities other stakeholders.
to be undertaken, including employee cybersecurity awareness Our concentrated effort to reduce operating costs and drive and training programs, monitoring of our enterprise and operational productivity improvements has realised tangible results, with technology networks, vulnerability identification and remediation a reduction in controllable costs.
activities, secure-by-design architecture and processes for the The capability to sustain productivity improvements is being management of third party technology risks.
We have a dedicated further enhanced through continued refinements to our Operating in-house cybersecurity function that supports business groups, Model.
The Operating Model is designed to deliver a simple and continuously improves our cyber defence capability and responds scalable BHP, providing a competitive advantage through defining to cyber incidents where required.
When incidents occur, they work, organisational and performance measurements.
Defined are investigated through root-cause analysis and, as required, global business processes, including 1SAP, provide a standardised follow-up actions are undertaken.
way of working across BHP.
Common processes generate useful The Board receives periodic updates on cyber risk management data and improve operating discipline.
Global sourcing arrangements activities, including relevant information on any significant cyber have been established to ensure continuity of supply and incidents that have occurred.
In the event of a significant cyber competitive costs for key supply inputs.
We seek to influence the incident, an incident notification plan is in place to facilitate application of our standards to non-operated joint ventures.
timely communication of the incident to stakeholders, including From an industrial relations perspective, detailed planning the Board, Corporate Affairs, Government Relations and or is undertaken to support the renegotiation of employment Investor Relations.
agreements and is supported by training and access to The Board continues to oversee the Groups response to the expertise in negotiation and agreement making.
tragedy at Samarco, with the work of the Samarco Sub-Committee Principal risk area Sustainability risks HSEC incidents or accidents may adversely affect people or neighbouring communities, assets, reputation and our licence to operate.
The potential physical impacts and related responses to climate change may impact the value of BHP, our assets and markets Our approach to sustainability risks is reflected in Our Charter Our approach to engagement with community stakeholders is and described in section 1.9.
The Our Requirements standards set outlined in the Our Requirements for Communications, Community out Group-wide HSEC-related performance requirements designed and External Engagement standard.
We undertake stakeholder to support effective management control of these risks.
The global identification and analysis, social impact and opportunity HSE planning process and the validation of the Our Requirements assessments, community perception surveys and human rights standards identify gaps in these standards, and inform global impact assessments to identify, mitigate or manage key potential improvements to the HSE framework.
social and human rights risks, as described in section 1.9.
Our approach to corporate planning, investment decision-making The Our Requirements for Risk Management standard provides and portfolio management provides a focus on the identification, the framework for risk management relating to climate change assessment and management of climate change risks.
We have and material health, safety, environmental and community risks.
been applying an internal price on carbon in our investment We conduct internal audits to test compliance with the Our decisions for more than a decade.
Through a comprehensive and Requirements standards and develop action plans to address strategic approach to corporate planning, we use a divergent set any gaps.
Key findings are reported to senior management and of scenarios to assess our portfolio, including consideration of a reports are considered by relevant Board committees.
broad range of potential policy responses to and impacts from climate For more information on the management change.
We also track signals across the external environment to of climate change, refer to section 1.9.
8. provide timely insights into the potential impacts on our portfolio.
BHP Annual Report 2018 35 1.7 People Everyone who works at BHP is required to hold themselves accountable for living BHP values as outlined in Our Charter see inside front cover : to put safety first: to make people a priority: to be functionally excellent: and to work with integrity.
1 Our leaders Peter Beaven, Chief Financial Officer Adrian Wood, Group Investor Relations Officer Arnoud Balhuizen, Chief Commercial Officer Athalie Williams, Chief People Officer Alex Archila, Asset President Shale Rag Udd, Asset President BMA Tony Cudmore, Group S&PP Officer Steve Pastor, President Operations Petroleum Johan van Jaarsveld, Group Portfolio Strategy & Development Officer Diane Jurgens, Chief Technology Officer Vandita Pant, Group Treasurer Graham Tiver, Group Financial Controller James Agar, Vice President Communications Geraldine Slattery, Asset President Conventional Patrick Risner, Group HSE Officer Daniel Malchuk, President Operations Minerals Americas Margaret Taylor, Group Company Secretary Andrew Mackenzie, Chief Executive Officer Robb Eadie, Chief Risk Officer Caroline Cox, General Counsel Mike Henry, President Operations Minerals Australia Laura Tyler, Asset President Olympic Dam James Palmer, Asset President NSWEC, BMC Eduard Haegel, Asset President Nickel West Edgar Basto-Baez, Asset President WAIO Jane Michie, Group Tax Officer Geoff Healy, Chief External Affairs Officer Bryan Quinn, Asset President Joint Ventures Mauro Neves, Asset President Escondida Giles Hellyer, Vice President Operations Potash 36 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 1.7.
2 Our people With a workforce of more than 62,000 employees and contractors Our people policies working across 90 locations worldwide, BHPs culture is shaped to We have a comprehensive set of frameworks that support our support the creation of value from our portfolio.
We are committed culture, and drive our focus on safety and productivity.
to investing in our workforce so that our people have the right skills and a healthy culture in which to thrive.
Our Charter is central to everything we do.
It describes our purpose, our values, how we measure our success, who we are, what we do At BHP, we provide competitive remuneration to reward employees and what we stand for.
for their expertise and commitment to fulfilling our business strategy and contribution to our long-term success.
Our remuneration Our Code of Conduct demonstrates how to practically apply the frameworks and principles are designed to inspire our employees commitments and values set out in Our Charter and reflects many to embrace the core objectives and values that reflect our of the standards and procedures we apply throughout BHP.
We have commitment to safety, culture and productivity.
The primary focus a business conduct advisory service, as well as internal dispute areas for FY2018 included building a culture that promotes trustful and grievance handling processes, to report and address any relationships and care, increasing the capability of our leaders, potential breaches of Our Code.
In particular, we work with The Our Requirements standards outline the minimum mandatory our leaders to develop their capabilities, recognising the vital standards we expect of those who work for, or on behalf of, role they play in developing engaged employees and supporting BHP.
Some of those standards relate to people activities, such ongoing improvements in safety and productivity.
as recruitment and talent retention.
For example, in FY2018, 40 General Managers from our operations Our all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, is available around the globe who are responsible for 75 per cent of BHPs to all permanent full-time and part-time employees and those workforce attended 10 days of face-to-face workshops and on fixed term contracts, except where local regulations limit contributed to projects aimed at solving complex business operation of the scheme.
In these instances, alternate problems.
They received intensive technical and leadership arrangements are in place.
training that formed part of a strategy to cultivate a diverse Through all of these documents, we make it clear that discrimination general manager cohort with the capability to run safe, effective on any basis is not acceptable.
In instances where employees and efficient operations.
The leadership programs will be require support for a disability, we work with them to identify expanded in FY2019 to include more operational managers.
any roles that meet their skill, experience and capability and More than 90 per cent of maintenance managers from Minerals offer retraining where required.
Australia attended our Maintenances Academies, a development The information in this section illustrates how these policies initiative from our Maintenance Centre of Excellence.
The sessions have been implemented and the steps that we take to measure broadened leaders technical knowledge, leadership capability their effectiveness.
Outside of leadership capability, we are streamlining our systems, processes, tools and behaviours to improve operational capability.
Inclusion and diversity At BHP, we believe that all our people should have the opportunity to fulfil their potential and thrive in an inclusive and diverse workplace.
Inclusion and diversity promote safety, productivity and wellbeing within BHP.
We employ, develop and promote people based on merit and do not tolerate any form of unlawful discrimination, bullying or harassment.
Our systems, processes and practices empower fair treatment.
For more information on Board diversity and our Boards support for inclusion and diversity, refer to section 2.5.
BHP Annual Report 2018 37 Case study Job sharing in Queensland Coal Diversity in all of its forms improves our workplace.
The business other employees who are interested in setting up a job share case for this is clear.
arrangement, even if theyre from different crews.
Weve observed that our most inclusive and gender diverse Billy Brant and David Kerr are both Maintenance teams perform better than the BHP average in areas such as Superintendents at Caval Ridge and work part-time, job safety, production, cost efficiency, employee engagement sharing.
Six months have passed since Billy and Dave started and mental health.
Flexible working is also an important factor job sharing and Tony Ladewig, a Maintenance Superintendent in attracting the best and most diverse mix of people to BHP.
at Caval Ridge, says that, from his perspective, the flexible work arrangement is working really well.
So were working to make flexible work part of the everyday experience of all our people.
As of FY2018, almost half of Both Billy and Dave return supercharged, and our people were working flexibly and another nine per cent this gives me a lift as well by simply being around have indicated that they plan to work flexibly in the next their positive energy, said Tony.
Our Queensland Coal mines are leading the way with a Given the success of the Coal job share register, the program site-based flexible work program.
Employees at our Coal is now being considered by other BHP sites around the world.
operations can take advantage of a job share register to find Gender balance The focus areas of our strategy to achieve a more diverse and inclusive workplace include: We have an aspirational goal to achieve gender balance globally by CY2025.
At the end of FY2018, there were 915 more women embedding flexibility in the way we work: at BHP than at the same time in the previous year, contributing encouraging and working with our supply chain partners to an increase in the representation of women by 1.9 per cent to support our commitment to inclusion and diversity: up to 22.4 per cent.
These results show we are making progress, uncovering and taking steps to mitigate potential bias although we did not achieve the three per cent annual growth in our behaviours, systems, policies and processes: to which we aspire.
ensuring our brand is attractive to a diverse range of people.
The external hiring ratio of 39.8 per cent women and 60.2 per Flexible working cent men remains the strongest contributor to improved female Flexible work promotes greater workforce diversity.
representation outcomes, and is a marked increase in female hiring compared to FY2015 10.4 per cent.
The turnover of women We have seen both long-distance commuters and residential 9.7 per cent is still higher than the rate for men 6.5 per cent.
employees at our operations implement flexible rosters, job However, the take up of flexible working a key lead indicator share arrangements and take breaks from work.
This has of improving the representation of women has increased to challenged the prevailing mindset that flexibility is only available 46 per cent in FY2018 from 41 per cent in FY2017.
For example, in Western Australia Iron Ore, 28 seven per cent of our train drivers are now working flexibly via job sharing arrangements.
38 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Working with suppliers Inclusion and Diversity Council, Jaspers aim is to drive a safe and inclusive work environment for everyone by providing advice on BHPs Supply team continues to lead a comprehensive program ways to reduce bias and ensure LGBT people are respected and of work to build inclusion and diversity incentives into contracts valued no matter their sexual or gender identity.
We engage with mobile equipment manufacturers to design tools and equipment for use by a diverse workforce Indigenous employment and encourage them to embrace diversity in their work teams.
We aim to provide employment opportunities in our host BHP has encouraged suppliers to support greater diversity through communities that contribute to sustainable social and economic ergonomic design and product development.
In Minerals Australia, Indigenous Mitigating potential bias employment increased from 4.1 per cent to 4.4 per cent and 25 per cent of all apprentices and 7.2 per cent of graduates were A number of employees have been trained to recognise and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.
In North America, we mitigate potential bias through more inclusive behaviour towards have focused on working with our contracting partners to support all employees.
Policies and systems have been changed to the employment of First Nations and Mtis peoples, who comprise reduce potential bias.
BHP has taken steps to reduce potential 6.2 per cent of our workforce at the Jansen Potash Project.
The bias in recruitment and conducts an annual pay gap review, the South American Indigenous Peoples Plan focuses on establishing results of which are reported to the Boards Remuneration targets and designing a pilot program to recruit and retain Committee.
Together, these measures seek to address future pay Indigenous peoples.
disparities between men and women.
Employer brand For more information, refer to our Sustainability Report 2018.
Inclusion and diversity continue to be a strong theme in our internal communications to our employees.
To ensure BHP and our industry are attractive to a diverse range of people external to the business, Employee relations we implemented a number of initiatives in FY2018.
For example, In FY2018, BHP Mitsubishi Alliance Pty Ltd concluded a two-year we ran proactive media and online campaigns that highlighted negotiation of its primary enterprise agreement in Australia, with no our progress in flexible work and our broader inclusion and lost time due to industrial action.
Overall, BHP has achieved a year diversity agenda.
with only 24 hours of lost time due to industrial action in Minera LGBT inclusion Escondida Limitada.
On 17 August 2018, Escondida successfully completed negotiations with Union N1 and signed a new collective At BHP, we want to provide a safe, inclusive and supportive agreement, effective for 36 months from 1 August 2018. workplace for all.
Its part of bringing your whole self to work.
Jasper is BHPs employee inclusion group for BHPs lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and others LGBT community and its allies.
Formally endorsed by the Executive Leadership Team and Global The launch of our Coal Integrated Remote Operations Centre IROC in Brisbane in 2017 demonstrated how BHP is blending the latest mining technology with a concerted approach to embedding inclusivity and diversity in our workforce.
3 Employees and contractors The data in this section consistent with previous years are averages.
We take the number of employees and contractors where applicable at the last day of each calendar month for a 10-month period to calculate an average for the year.
This does not necessarily reflect the number of employees and contractors as at the end of FY2018.
All the data in this section includes Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
The diagram below shows the average number of employees and contractors over the last three financial years, and a breakdown of our average number of employees by geographic region over the last three financial years.
Average number of employees and Average number of employees by 1 1 contractors for the year ended 30 June geographic region for the year ended 30 June Europe 70 2018 North America 2,490 1% 43% Total 62,476 9% Asia 1,368 Employees 27,161 5% Contractors 35,315 South America 6,729 57% 25% Australia 16,504 61% Europe 74 2017 North America 2,786 1% 43% 11% Total 60,644 Asia 1,019 Employees 26,146 4% Contractors 34,498 South America 6,361 57% 24% Australia 15,906 61% Europe 61 2016 North America 3,601 1% 41% 13% Total 65,263 Asia 822 3% Employees 26,827 Contractors 38,436 South America 6,509 59% 24% Australia 15,834 59% 1 Data includes Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
The table below shows the gender composition of our employees, senior leaders and the Board over the last three financial years.
2018 2017 2016 1 Female employees 5,907 4,868 4,708 1 Male employees 21,254 21,278 22,119 2 3 Female senior managers 70 65 65 2 3 Male senior managers 235 211 251 2 Female Board members 3 33 2 Male Board members 7 77 1 Based on the average of the number of employees at the last day of each calendar month for a 10-month period to April, which is then used to calculate an average for the year to 30 June.
Data includes Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
These numbers differ from the point in time snapshot as used in internal management reporting for the purposes of monitoring progress against our goals, which are reported in section 1.7.
2 Based on actual numbers as at 30 June 2018, not rolling averages.
3 For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, we are required to show information for senior managers, which are defined to include both senior leaders and any persons who are directors of any subsidiary company, even if they are not senior leaders.
In FY2018, there were 290 senior leaders at BHP.
There were 15 Directors of subsidiary companies who are not senior leaders, comprising 13 men and 2 women.
Therefore, for UK law purposes, the total number of senior managers was 235 men and 70 women 23 per cent women in FY2018.
40 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.8 Samarco 1 Revegetation of fast growing species on river banks.
Reinforcement of tributaries and stabilisation of river margins.
Fundao Renovas governance structure also comprises a Fiscal The Fundo dam failure Council, Advisory Council, seven Board Committees, a technical On 5 November 2015, the Fundo tailings dam operated sub-committee, a Compliance Manager and an Ombudsman.
by Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco failed.
Samarco is a The Advisory Council includes representation from impacted non-operated joint venture owned by BHP Billiton Brasil Limitada communities and community development and education experts.
BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale S. A. Vale, with each having a 50 per cent shareholding.
Fundao Renovas staff of approximately 500 people is supported by around 5,000 contractors.
A significant volume of tailings water and mud-like waste resulting from the iron ore beneficiation process was released.
Tragically, Due to the diversity, scale and complexity of the programs, 19 people died five community members and 14 people who Fundao Renova collaborates and engages broadly with affected were working on the dam when it failed.
The communities of communities, scientific and academic institutions, regulators and Bento Rodrigues, Gesteira and Paracatu were flooded.
of other communities further downstream in the states of Minas An independent scientific technical and advisory panel, established Gerais and Esprito Santo were also affected by the tailings, by the International Union for Conservation of Nature IUCN, is as was the environment of the Rio Doce basin.
providing expert advice to Fundao Renova.
Chaired by Yolanda Our response and support for Fundao Renova Kakabadse, formerly Environment Minister for Ecuador and President of WWF International, the panel meets monthly.
In addition, the Over two years into the recovery process, we remain committed panel has undertaken two field visits to the impacted areas in Brazil, to doing the right thing for the people and the environment in the incorporating extensive engagement with affected and interested Rio Doce region, in a challenging and complex operating context.
Guided by the principles of independence, transparency, In accordance with the Framework Agreement with the relevant accountability and engagement, the panel will publish short-term Brazilian authorities that was signed in March 2016, work to restore issues papers and longer-term thematic papers, with the first paper the environment and re-establish communities is being undertaken scheduled for release in the first quarter of FY2019.
Other papers by Fundao Renova.
Fundao Renova is a not-for-profit, private planned will cover topics such as the ecological processes to foundation, established by BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco.
maintain coastal lakes, the impact of fishing bans and economic As well as remediating the impacts of the dam failure, Fundao alternatives for the region.
Renova is implementing a range of compensatory actions aimed Resettlement at leaving a lasting positive legacy for the people and environment of the Rio Doce.
One of Fundao Renovas priority social programs is the livelihood restoration program to relocate and rebuild the communities of BHP is focused on supporting Fundao Renovas operations Bento Rodrigues, Paracatu and Gesteira.
A key to the success of through representation on the Board of Governors and Board this program is the participation of affected community members, Committees, making available secondees who work within the their technical advisers, State Prosecutors, municipal leaders, Foundation to provide their technical expertise on priority areas, regulators and other interested parties.
and regular peer engagement on issues such as safety, risk management, human rights and compliance.
The process involves the identification and acquisition of land, design and planning for the urban development, including all Fundao Renova services and public buildings schools, health centres, squares, The activities of Fundao Renova are overseen by an Interfederative covered sports grounds and religious buildings and construction Committee comprising representatives from the Brazilian Federal of new houses for the affected people.
The resettlement also and State Governments, local municipalities, environmental involves the employment of community members and provision agencies, impacted communities and the Public Defense Office, of support services to help them resume their way of life.
who monitor, guide and assess the progress of actions agreed The resettlement of Bento Rodrigues is progressing, with active in the Framework Agreement.
participation of community members, government agencies and Fundao Renova is governed by a Board of Governors, comprising local prosecutors.
Following the selection of the preferred location representatives nominated by BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale, Samarco for the new town in 2016, the land has been acquired.
On 8 February and the Interfederative Committee.
The Board of Governors appoints 2018, the community members voted overwhelmingly in favour of an Executive Board, including the CEO, which is responsible for the the town plan they helped to design, and in May they commenced operational management of the Foundation.
Fundao Renovas working with architects to design their new homes.
Preparations Chief Executive is Roberto Waack, a biologist with an extensive for site works, including laydown areas and construction site background in  organisations, including World facilities, are underway.
On 5 July, the state environment regulator Wide Fund for Nature WWF Brazil, Global Reporting Initiative, Forest Stewardship Council, Ethos Institute and the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund.
BHP Annual Report 2018 41 1.8 Samarco continued issued the licence in a public ceremony.
The authorisations of the Financial assistance and compensation State Urban Planning Regulator and Municipality were issued Fundao Renova has distributed around 9,500 financial assistance on 1 August 2018, allowing the construction of the Bento community cards to those whose livelihoods were impacted by the dam failure, to commence.
including registered and informal commercial fishermen who are unable to fish due to the imposition of fishing bans in the Rio Doce The same process is being followed for Paracatu.
The land has and along the coast of Esprito Santo.
The payments are designed been selected and the urban plan is expected to be approved by to ensure those impacted have the capacity to support themselves the community in September 2018.
Progress at Gesteira, the and their families pending the re-establishment of conditions that smallest of the three resettlements, has been delayed by enable them to resume their economic activities.
a series of land access issues and discussions around the exact number of families to be included in the resettlement.
Fundao During FY2018, assistance was expanded to include a number Renova has worked hard to resolve these issues and is now of new geographic areas and to cover subsistence fishermen working with the community and its technical advisers to who rely on fish for food security.
The form of assistance is still determine a solution.
Based on current planning, it is expected that all resettlements A mediated compensation program is also being implemented will be completed in 2020. throughout the impacted regions, which is intended to fairly compensate all individuals impacted by the dam failure.
It comprises Remediation two key components: Through FY2018, Fundao Renovas work included the continued The Water Damages component compensated people for monitoring and maintaining of the emergency vegetation an interruption to public water supplies for seven to 10 days established on the terrestrial areas impacted by the initial tailings following the dam failure.
Of 440,000 people who were eligible flow along the rivers and tributaries, resulting in ongoing for compensation, just over 260,000 participated in the program, improvements to water quality.
Negotiations commenced with at a cost of approximately R$265 million.
regulators and landowners to determine the long-term remediation The General Damages component covers all other impacts, plans of these areas for biodiversity, agricultural and urban uses.
including loss of life, injury, property, business impacts, loss A pilot study was conducted to assess the methodology for of income and moral damages.
The program was designed evaluating alternative tailings remediation options.
It concluded based on inputs from public agencies, technical entities and that the river was quickly re-establishing its geomorphological impacted families and has been validated by the Interfederative processes and that large-scale actions to try and remove tailings Committee.
Around 20,000 people have been registered from the bed or banks of rivers would likely lead to greater under the program, with around 6,600 people having received environmental harm than allowing the normal river processes their payments by 27 July 2018.
Claimants who choose not to to naturally remediate the tailings material.
The pilot study was participate in the program or are deemed to be ineligible under submitted to the regulators in May 2018 for review and will be the program rules retain the right to progress their claims subject to further discussions as to how the methodology could through the courts.
be applied to other sections of the rivers.
Governance Agreement Water quality in the Gualaxo do Norte River has achieved the On 25 June 2018, Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil, the turbidity target set in the Framework Agreement a year earlier than other parties to the Framework Agreement, the Public Prosecutors required.
All immediate river and tributary remediation activities to Office and the Public Defense Office agreed an arrangement limit further contribution of tailings have been completed.
Longerthe Governance Agreement which settles the R$20 billion term remediation measures are in the process of being designed in approximately US$5.2 billion civil claim R$20 billion Public consultation with regulators and other stakeholders.
Civil Claim, enhances community participation in decisions Water quality, aquatic habitat and fish surveys continue to be related to the remediation and compensation programs under conducted in the rivers and coastal zone to understand the impact the Framework Agreement Programs and establishes a process of the tailings flow and the rate of recovery of the ecological to renegotiate those Programs over two years and to progress systems.
Results from these studies indicate that, while sediment settlement of the R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion in the river channels along the spill flow path upstream of Candonga civil claim R$155 billion Federal Public Prosecution Office claim.
continues to limit the re-establishment of habitats and aquatic Legal claims fauna diversity and abundance, the natural sediment transport The Governance Agreement was ratified by the 12th Federal processes will ultimately restore suitable habitat.
Methods Court of Minas Gerais on 8 August 2018, settling the R$20 billion to enhance the rate of habitat recovery are being investigated.
Public Civil Claim and suspending the R$155 billion Federal Public The studies clearly demonstrate that the fish are safe for human Prosecution Office claim for a period of two years from the date consumption in terms of metal concentrations.
Fishing bans remain of ratification.
in place for native species in the Rio Doce and impacted tributaries Renegotiation process in Minas Gerais and all species along a zone of the Esprito Santo During the two-year period, the parties will work together to design coast.
Regulators have required more studies to be undertaken a single process for the renegotiation of the Programs and progress along the river and coast by research institutions, with preliminary settlement of the R$155 billion Federal Public Prosecution Office results scheduled for late CY2019.
Given the significant impacts claim.
The renegotiation process will take into account the of the fishing bans on the livelihoods of commercial and subsistence principles and rules established under the Framework Agreement, fishermen and the social cohesion within their communities, and will be aimed at improvement of the Programs, with the BHP Billiton Brasil has been providing technical support to involvement of the affected communities.
Fundao Renova to accelerate the collection of data to address the concerns of regulators and the community.
This includes The renegotiation of the Programs will be based on certain agreed analysis of the safety of fish for human consumption and the principles, such as full reparation consistent with Brazilian law, the status of fish populations to support lifting of the bans.
requirement for a technical basis for any proposed changes, consideration of findings from the socio-economic and socioEnvironmental compensation programs for the rehabilitation environmental experts appointed by Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton of 40,000 hectares are in the final stages of design, with 3,000 Brasil, consideration of findings from experts appointed by the hectares scheduled to be completed in CY2019.
More than Prosecutors and consideration of the feedback from the impacted 500 degraded natural springs have been revegetated as part communities.
During the renegotiation period and up until of a Framework Agreement commitment to rehabilitate 5,000 revisions to the Programs are agreed, the Fundao Renova will springs over 10 years.
continue to implement the Programs in accordance with the terms The retention structures to contain the tailings material remaining of the Framework Agreement and the Governance Agreement.
within the Fundo Valley continue to operate as designed and limit further contributions from this source to river turbidity.
42 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Erosion control measures at Rio Doce floodplains.
River stabilisation works on the Gualaxo do Norte River.
Governance arrangements Technology: Monitoring systems at all significant tailings dams have been supplemented where necessary and continue to be A revised governance structure has been agreed, based on the Framework Agreement, that enhances community participation in improved as new instrumentation and methods become available.
We are funding studies to develop early warning technologies and the process.
improve knowledge of the liquefaction phenomenon.
We are also Prior to the Governance Agreement, the Interfederative Committee working with vendors on the testing and development of advanced comprised 12 members, with six being appointed by Samarco, Vale tailings dewatering methods.
and BHP Billiton Brasil and one by the Interfederative Committee.
Dam management: A global tailings expert has been appointed The revised structure includes four additional members of the to provide centralised governance and technical expertise.
Interfederative Committee, with three being appointed by affected communities and one by the Public Defense Office.
It also includes More information on our ongoing dams and tailings management two additional members of the Renova Board who will be is available in our Sustainability Report 2018 at bhp.
appointed by the affected communities.
A network of Local and Regional Commissions has also been Working with non-operated joint ventures established along the Rio Doce to secure community participation We also undertook to centralise management of our interest in the decision-making relating to the Programs.
in all major non-operated minerals joint ventures in the Minerals Americas operating group and to work to establish a new global Restart standard for non-operated joint ventures NOJVs.
Restart of Samarcos operations remains a focus but is subject to separate negotiations with relevant parties and will occur only if it We have created a centralised team that is a single point of is safe, economically viable and has the support of the community.
accountability for NOJVs within BHP.
That team has developed Resuming operations requires the granting of licences by state a global standard which defines the requirements for managing and federal authorities, community hearings and an appropriate BHPs interest in our NOJVs.
The team has also set out a strategy restructure of Samarcos debt.
for managing our interest in NOJVs, focused on supporting strong governance, managing risk and creating value from our investment, Progress on our commitments within the limits of our rights as joint venture partners.
Following the investigation into the causes of the dam failure, For more information on the team and its work, BHP identified a number of actions that we would take in our refer to section 1.10. management of tailings dams and non-operated joint venture arrangements to help to prevent a similar event from occurring.
More information on health, safety and environment performance Dam management at our NOJVs is available in our Sustainability Report 2018 We committed to undertake dam safety reviews in accordance at bhp.
with the Canadian Dam Associations process, assess technology options to enhance dam management and create a centralised dam management function.
Dam safety reviews: We have performed dam safety reviews following the procedures recommended by the Canadian Dam Association for significant active, inactive and closed tailings facilities across the Group.
Implementation of the recommendations is currently in progress.
No significant deficiencies that represent an immediate threat to the stability of the dams have been identified.
BHP Annual Report 2018 43 1.9 Sustainability BHP does not tolerate any form of retaliation against anyone Full details of our sustainability approach and performance are set out in our Sustainability Report 2018 available at bhp.
who speaks up about potential misconduct or participates in an investigation.
BHPs strategy of owning and operating long-life Anti-corruption assets means that we think and plan in decades.
Corruption misallocates resources, reinforces poverty, undermines the integrity of government and community decision-making and We can create long-term value only if we safeguard wastes opportunities that arise from resource development.
We are the sustainability of our operations with the support committed to contributing to the global fight against corruption of the communities in which we work.
To do that, and working with business, government and civil society to support we must form and maintain deep, authentic and this effort.
respectful relationships with all our stakeholders.
Our commitment to anti-corruption compliance is embodied in Our Charter and Our Code.
We also have a specific anti-corruption 1.9.
1 Our approach to sustainability procedure, which sets out mandatory requirements to identify and manage the risk of anti-corruption laws being breached.
Sustainability is one of the core values set out in Our Charter.
We prohibit authorising, offering, giving or promising anything To us, sustainability means putting health and safety first, being of value directly or indirectly to a government official to influence environmentally responsible and supporting our communities.
official action, or to anyone to encourage them to perform their The wellbeing of our people, the community and the environment work disloyally or otherwise improperly.
We also require our people is considered in everything that we do.
to take care that third parties acting on our behalf do not violate anti-corruption laws.
A breach of these requirements can result The Board oversees our sustainability approach, with the Boards Sustainability Committee assisting with governance and monitoring.
in disciplinary action, including dismissal.
The Sustainability Committee also oversees HSEC-related risks, Our Ethics and Compliance function has a mandate to design legal and regulatory compliance and overall HSEC and other and govern BHPs compliance frameworks for key compliance risks, human rights performance.
The Boards Risk and Audit Committee including anti-bribery and corruption.
The function is independent assists with oversight of the Groups systems of risk management.
of our assets and asset groups, and comprises teams that are We set clear targets to challenge ourselves, drive improvement and co-located in our main global locations and a specialised Compliance allow stakeholders to assess our performance in areas that matter Legal team.
The Chief Compliance Officer reports twice a year to most.
To realise these targets, we embed sustainability performance the Risk and Audit Committee, and separately to the Committee measures throughout the Group, from Group-wide key performance Chairman, also twice a year.
indicators to balanced scorecards for individual employees.
Our anti-corruption compliance program is designed to meet the requirements of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the All data in this section 1.9 includes Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
UK Bribery Act, the Australian Criminal Code and applicable laws of all places where we do business.
These laws are consistent Transparency and accountability with the standards of the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery Transparency and accountability are fundamental to trust.
It is of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions.
trust that underpins the social contract, in which corporations, We regularly review our anti-corruption compliance program governments and communities agree to work together for to make any changes required by regulatory developments.
Without transparency, there cannot In addition to anti-corruption training as part of annual training be accountability for sharing the proceeds of wealth and fair on Our Code, additional risk-based anti-corruption training distribution of taxes.
was completed by 7,406 employees in FY2018 and numerous Our commitment to transparency goes beyond complying with employees of business partners and community partners.
We need to demonstrate that we are playing our part in the social contract to maintain our licence to operate for the long 1.9.
Our approach is guided by our Transparency Principles of responsibility, openness, fairness and accountability.
We were the Our highest priority is the safety of all those impacted by our first in our sector to disclose payments to governments on a operations, including our employees and contractors and the project-by-project basis in 2015.
This year, we have also disclosed communities in which we operate.
We achieve nothing our profit, number of employees and adjusted effective tax rates if we do not do it safely.
BHP has a goal of zero fatalities.
Tragically, two of our colleagues Economic transparency is not our only focus.
We have a strong died in FY2018.
Daniel Springer, a contractor from Independent record of supporting robust reporting on climate change issues.
Mining Services, suffered fatal injuries in August 2017 as a result We were one of the first companies to report in accordance with of an incident while removing a curved wear plate from the back the recommendations of the Financial Stability Boards Task Force of an excavator bucket at Goonyella Riverside Mine.
In November on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.
In August 2018, we 2017, a sub-contractor from our Onshore US asset suffered fatal published a comprehensive report of our water risks and usage.
injuries when he was struck by a forklift during well-completion Our conduct operations in the Permian Basin.
Wherever we operate, we strive to do so with integrity doing Following both events, teams were established to identify what is right and doing what we say we will do.
This is fundamental organisational improvements that could prevent similar events to building and maintaining the trust we need for long-term occurring again.
The investigations were facilitated by an value creation.
external expert and led by independent senior leaders.
Our Code of Conduct Our Code sets the standard for BHPs In response to these incidents, Group-wide actions have commitment to working with integrity and respect.
Our Code been taken to review and improve our management processes sets out standards of behaviour for our people in their dealings and our minimum safety requirements for engaging and with governments and communities, third parties, and each managing contractors.
Our Code guides us in our daily work and demonstrates We have also reviewed how we investigate incidents and found how to practically apply the commitments and values set out in there were opportunities to improve process, leadership and Our Charter.
Acting in accordance with Our Code is a condition culture so that we can more effectively embed the lessons from of employment for everyone who works for and on behalf of BHP safety incidents across our business.
and it is accessible to all our people and external stakeholders on our website bhp.
All our people are required to undertake annual training on Our Code.
44 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 We successfully launched a Group-wide common approach to field Total recordable injury frequency per million hours worked leadership during FY2018.
Since deployment, we have completed Year ended 30 June 2018 2017 2016 more than one million field leadership activities with our employees 1 and contractors, which highlights how well this program has been Total recordable injury frequency 4.4 4.2 4.3 embedded into our daily leadership routines.
1 Includes data for Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial Our safety performance years being reported.
Total recordable injury frequency TRIF performance increased This year, we are also reporting on the rate of high potential injuries.
by five per cent during FY2018 to 4.4 per million hours worked, We are currently able to report data for the last three years.
This was due to an increase in low potential injury trends remain a primary focus to assess progress severity sprain and strain type injuries in Minerals Australia, which against our most important safety objective: to eliminate fatalities.
occurred primarily in Western Australia Iron Ore and Olympic Dam.
High potential injuries declined by eight per cent from FY2017 These events were not injuries that had fatal or serious potential.
due to a significant reduction in high potential injuries in Western Through Field Leadership engagement and formal awareness Australia Iron Ore and further improvement in Petroleum.
programs, we are improving the identification and management of the hazards that cause sprain and strain injuries in task-based High potential injury events risk assessments done by the workforce every day.
The increase in Year ended 30 June 2018 2017 2016 TRIF performance at Minerals Australia was offset by an 18 per cent reduction in TRIF performance in Minerals Americas to a level 1 High potential injury events 56 61 88 less than two.
1 Includes recordable injuries and first aid cases where there was the potential for a fatality.
This data covers Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
3 Health Recognising that our operations can impact the health of our Our Charter values guide our response and the support we offer, people, we set clear requirements to manage and protect the and we continue to review how this can be improved.
health and wellbeing of our workforce, now and into the future.
Through the combination of further reductions in coal mine dust We set minimum mandatory controls to identify and manage and silica potential exposures across BHP sites driven by our health risks for both employees and contractors.
Health risks current five-year exposure reduction targets and planned reductions at our workplaces include occupational exposure to diesel in our OELs and the statutory health surveillance schemes in particulate matter DPM, silica and coal mine dust, Queensland and New South Wales, we believe the necessary musculoskeletal stressors, noise and mental health impacts.
controls are in place to prevent serious disabling disease and Occupational illnesses fatalities in our workforce from existing workplace conditions.
The majority of our reported occupational illnesses are Mental health musculoskeletal illness and noise-induced hearing loss.
Consistent with our culture of care, the mental health of our We continue to work to minimise these risks through people is a priority for BHP.
We have made good progress with controls such as hearing protection and task redesign the implementation of our Group-wide Mental Health Framework.
to reduce manual handling requirements.
Our initial focus was on culture, aimed at reducing the stigma The incidence of employee occupational illness in FY2018 was associated with mental illness and raising awareness of mental 4.18 per million hours worked, a decrease of 15 per cent compared health conditions, as well as building capacity and confidence with FY2017.
The reported incidence of contractor occupational to recognise and support individuals experiencing mental illness was 1.92 per million hours worked, an increase of 34 per cent health issues.
The overall increase in contractor illnesses In FY2018, we expanded our program to include positive activities has been predominantly driven by an increase in predominantly to support a healthy, thriving workforce.
This included the musculoskeletal illness cases in Minerals Australia.
This is development of a peer-led Resilience Program designed to improve recognised as an area of focus, with work planned in FY2019 personal and team ability to respond and adapt to changing life to address the rise in cases.
circumstances and to build longer-term wellbeing.
In addition We do not have full oversight of incidence of contractor to the Resilience Program, we developed a centralised resource noise-induced hearing loss in many parts of BHP due to to help our people improve their mental health and support regulatory regimes and limited access to data.
We are colleagues, friends and family: the Thrive mental health toolkit, working with our contractors to resolve these issues.
and included a wellbeing category in our Engagement and Perception Survey, helping inform our mental health strategy Periodic medical surveillance is conducted to detect signs and better equipping our leaders to support their people.
of potential illness at an early stage, and assist our people in the recovery and management of illness that is a result of exposure at our workplace.
In FY2019, we will review our medical testing 1.9.
4 Respecting human rights programs to look for opportunities to improve the programs Respecting human rights wherever we operate is critical to and further enhance our ability to detect potential issues.
the sustainability of our business and is consistent with our Exposure to airborne contaminants commitment to operate in a manner consistent with the United We manage exposures to DPM, silica, coal mine dust and other Nations UN Declaration on Human Rights, the UN Guiding potentially harmful agents through the setting of internally Principles on Business and Human Rights, the Voluntary specified occupational exposure limits OELs.
In setting those Principles on Security and Human Rights and the 10 UN OELs for our most important exposures, we monitor and review Global Compact principles.
scientific literature, engage with regulators and OEL-setting Society increasingly expects businesses to respect human rights agencies, benchmark against peers, and seek independent throughout the value chain and we continue to work closely with advice.
Our process for continuous monitoring and evaluation our stakeholders to understand opportunities to make a positive of our internal OELs is designed to ensure they remain in line contribution towards human rights.
with, or are more stringent than, applicable regulated health limits.
The most relevant human rights risks for BHP are rights related For our most material exposures of DPM, silica and coal mine dust, to occupational health and safety, security, labour conditions we have committed to a five-year target to achieve a 50 per cent and the rights of Indigenous peoples and communities impacted 1 reduction in the number of workers potentially exposed as by our operations.
Human rights are integrated into BHPs risk compared to our FY2017 baseline exposure profile as of 30 June management system through the Our Requirements standards.
In FY2018, planned exposure reduction We seek to identify and manage human rights risks and perform projects were implemented across the Group resulting in an due diligence across all our activities.
We engage regularly with overall reduction of 31 per cent compared to the FY2017 baseline.
communities, investors, civil society and industry associations Planned growth projects across the Group may result in an on human rights-related issues and impacts of our operations increase in some potential exposures in the short term: however, on communities.
commitments to achieve planned exposure reductions over the five-year target period remain.
Our expectations of our people and contractors and suppliers where under relevant contractual obligation are set out in Coal mine dust lung diseases Our Code of Conduct and other relevant standards.
Performance As at 30 June 2018, six cases of coal mine dust lung diseases against those standards is overseen by our management and 3 CMDLD among our current employees had been reported subject to internal audit.
to the Queensland Department of Natural Resources, Mines We set minimum mandatory requirements for all our suppliers and Energy.
We continue to provide counselling, medical support and relevant contractors, including zero tolerance in relation to and redeployment options where relevant for all six colleagues.
child labour and forced or compulsory labour, freedom of Four of the six have been able to continue working.
association, living wage, non-discrimination and diversity, During FY2018, an additional three former BHP workers had workers workplace health and safety, community interaction and treatment compensation claims accepted for CMDLD resulting in a total, as of employees.
We acknowledge the challenges of respecting at 30 June 2018, of five former workers diagnosed with CMDLD human rights throughout our value chain and are committed since January 2016 noting that no Australian coal mine worker to working with our suppliers and business partners to adopt had been diagnosed with CMDLD in the preceding two decades.
principles and standards similar to BHPs.
1 For exposures exceeding our baseline occupational exposure limits discounting the use of personal protective equipment, where required.
2 The baseline exposure profile is derived through a combination of quantitative exposure measurements and qualitative assessments undertaken by specialist occupational hygienists consistent with best practice as defined by the American Industrial Hygiene Association.
3 CMDLD is the name given to the lung diseases related to exposure to coal mine dust and include coal workers pneumoconiosis, silicosis, mixed dust pneumoconiosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
46 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 FY2018 saw continued progress and implementation Engaging with host communities of good practice in respect of human rights across BHP.
Our community practitioners use a range of tools tailored to Key activities included: the needs of our stakeholders.
We plan, implement, evaluate and Supply due diligence Tailored human rights risk-related document stakeholder engagement activities, ensuring we include questions have been included in the supplier assessment a range of culturally and socially inclusive engagement activities questionnaire in our new Global Contractor Management and update our plans annually.
Tools include stakeholder mapping, System, and our Supply team completed the next phase complaints and grievance reporting procedures, perception of its work to improve the transparency and confidence surveys, social impact and opportunity assessments and human of human rights risk management in our supply chain.
Through these, we gain valuable Seafarers human rights A project was commenced by our insights into what we do well and where we need to improve our performance.
Marketing business to better understand the potential exposure of shipping crews on our charter vessels to human rights and We also regularly engage with shareholders, their representatives ethics concerns and to develop an inspection process that is and non-governmental organisations at a Board and senior designed to ensure any such exposures are identified, assessed management level in order to understand their expectations and controlled.
Water stewardship Our global strategy on water stewardship For more information, refer to includes a social and human rights perspective.
This includes section 2.3 Shareholder engagement.
mapping the project vision and activities against good practices in relation to human rights and reviewing trends and expectations regarding the human right to water and sanitation.
Supporting local economic growth UK Modern Slavery Act We support local businesses by seeking to source products and services locally.
All our assets are required to have local procurement In accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 UK, we publish an annual statement describing the steps we take to understand plans that benefit local suppliers, create employment and build capacity through training of small business entrepreneurs.
the potential for modern slavery and human trafficking risks across our operating and supplier jurisdictions.
We are committed to During FY2018, 24 per cent of our external expenditure was with building an ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, including suppliers local suppliers.
An additional 73 per cent of our supply expenditure and regulators, to improve our understanding of these risks.
was within the regions in which we operate.
Of the US$16 billion paid to more than 10,000 suppliers across the globe, US$3.8 billion That statement, together with information on BHPs systems and was paid to local suppliers in the communities in which we operate, processes for meeting the UN Guiding Principles on Business and supporting their further development.
Human Rights, human rights governance and our zero tolerance requirements in relation to human rights in our supply chain, is Our expenditure with local suppliers in FY2018 was mostly in the available online at bhp.
United States 81 per cent, Trinidad and Tobago 47 per cent, Chile 20 per cent and Australia 13 per cent.
5 Supporting communities Voluntary social investment Our target is to invest not less than one per cent of our pre-tax We work respectfully with stakeholders to identify and address 1 profit to contribute to improved quality of life in host communities impacts from our operations, to understand their expectations and and support achievement of the United Nations Sustainable to identify opportunities to actively address social needs.
to build good relationships with our stakeholders based on mutual respect, open and ongoing communications and transparency Our social investment performance in FY2018 saw BHP deliver over our activities.
In particular, we respect the rights of Indigenous projects with a continued focus on good governance, human peoples and aim to contribute to their sustainable long-term capability and social inclusion and environment.
The total economic empowerment, social development needs and investment of US$77.05 million includes US$7.16 million on cultural wellbeing.
community contributions at our non-operated joint ventures, and US$1.54 million to facilitate the operation of the BHP Billiton Foundation.
1 Our voluntary social investment is calculated as one per cent of the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit.
6 Indigenous peoples Many of our operations are located on or near traditional lands.
Case study We respect the rights of Indigenous peoples and acknowledge BHPs Local Buying Program their right to maintain their culture, identity, traditions and customs.
We also seek to contribute to their sustainable long-term economic empowerment, social development needs and cultural wellbeing.
Our approach to engaging and supporting Indigenous peoples is articulated in our Indigenous Peoples Statement, which is aligned with the ICMM Indigenous Peoples Policy Statement.
We have a five-year target to implement our Indigenous Peoples Strategy across all our assets through the development of Regional Indigenous Peoples Plans.
The Strategy focuses on four priority areas: governance: economic empowerment: social and cultural support: and public engagement.
In FY2018, all regions Australia, the United States, Chile and Canada had regional Indigenous Peoples plans established to progress the Strategy.
Further details on our Indigenous Peoples Policy Statement and Strategy are available in our Sustainability Report 2018 and online at bhp.
7 Protecting the environment Pressure on land and water resources is growing, amplified by climate change.
Maintaining the right to access these resources relies on our ability to demonstrate responsible management The Local Buying Program Program was established and contribute to a resilient environment.
BHP has comprehensive in 2012 as a means to encourage better relationships governance, risk management, policies and processes to help between our operations and local small businesses, reduce the potential impact of our operations.
build capability and capacity across the local supply Our approach to environmental management is set out in the chain and boost regional economic development in Our Requirements for Environment and Climate Change and our host communities.
Our Requirements for Planning, Risk Management standards.
The Program makes it easier for business owners to These standards and our processes of audit and assurance have competitively bid for supply opportunities through been designed taking account of the ISO management system a streamlined onboarding, procurement and payment requirements, such as ISO14001 for Environmental Management.
process, which includes 21 day payment terms.
The Our Requirements standards also include specific minimum performance standards in a number of areas.
BHP has engaged a cost-neutral organisation, C-Res, to directly manage all transactional activities through Compliance with the Our Requirements standards is checked the Program, while also providing ongoing support, by our internal audit processes, which are designed to cover engagement and mentoring of registered local suppliers.
all operating sites on a two year rotation.
The Programs continuing success has seen it expand to Supporting biodiversity include all of BHPs core assets within Minerals Australia, We have a five-year target to improve marine and terrestrial including Queensland Coal, NSW Energy Coal, Olympic biodiversity outcomes by developing a framework to evaluate Dam and Western Australia Iron Ore. and verify the benefits of our actions, in collaboration with others.
Since its launch in 2012, more than 1,000 local suppliers In FY2018, we commenced development of that framework through have registered with the Program, and over 20,000 work collaboration with Conservation International and also with Proteus, packages and expenditure over A$230 million with a voluntary partnership between UN Environment World local businesses have been approved.
In FY2018, more Conservation Monitoring Centre UNEP-WCMC and 12 extractives than 8,000 work packages and expenditure with local industry companies.
The framework will be used to measure BHPs businesses of more than A$94 million were approved.
achievement of our longer-term biodiversity goal: in line with Businesses were paid within an average of 13 days United Nations Sustainable Development Goals UN SDGs 14 and from invoice.
15, BHP will, by FY2030, have made a measurable contribution to the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of marine NQ Car & Truck Rentals and terrestrial ecosystems in all regions where we operate.
NQ Car & Truck Rentals a commercial and industrial BHP also looks for opportunities to improve the conservation, vehicle rental business has been an established part restoration and sustainable use of marine and terrestrial ecosystems of the Mackay and Coalfields communities in Central in all regions in which we operate, both through our own activities Queensland for more than 16 years.
and in collaboration with others.
In FY2018, our Petroleum business Tracie Combie, the owner of NQ Car & Truck Rentals, partnered with Pemex to develop the Trion discovery in the Gulf says that joining the Program in 2014 has given her the of Mexico.
As the first foreign company to partner with Mexico stability she needs to grow her company sustainably.
in developing their significant petroleum resources, BHP has been NQ Car & Truck Rentals has been awarded 36 work working with the Mexican Government as it develops its offshore packages from our BMA and BMC operations, generating petroleum regulatory framework, by sharing leading practice more than $920,000 in approved expenditure, and at the environmental guidance from networks such as IPIECA the global time of publication, employing four full-time workers in oil and gas industry association for environmental and social the companys head office, up from one full-time and one issues and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers.
The Program has given Tracie the opportunity to provide casual work for the aged, returning to work mothers and people with a disability, and enabled her to diversify and expand her fleet of trucks from 40 mostly cars and small trucks to 80 which now includes buses, trailers and mine compliant vehicles.
48 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 The water stewardship priority supports our longer-term goal Rehabilitation and closure for water: in line with SDG 6, BHP will collaborate to enable Closure of part or all of an operation brings with it potentially integrated water resource management in all catchments where significant financial, environmental and social impacts.
We also have a five-year target to reduce this, in FY2017, BHP developed a new Our Requirements standard FY2022 freshwater withdrawal by 15 per cent from FY2017 levels.
The new standard will apply to exploration, projects The most significant contributor towards this goal in FY2018 was and operational or closure activities for all our sites, including the completion and inauguration of the expanded desalination both our operated assets and non-operated assets where plant at our Escondida asset in Chile.
The FY2018 result represents commercial terms allow.
The standard will also apply to our a two per cent decrease from FY2017 levels and progress towards investment or divestment decisions.
Our standards also require us to minimise the potential of adverse For more information on BHP and water, read our environmental impacts following closure.
Our closed sites are BHP Water Report 2018 at bhp.
required to have closure management plans, with long-term monitoring to verify that controls are effective and performance standards are maintained.
8 Climate change Towards water stewardship The need for water creates complex, region-wide interrelationships Our climate change strategy focuses on reducing our operational between communities, government, business and the environment.
GHG emissions, investing in low emissions technologies, This means we all must work more cooperatively to effectively promoting product stewardship, managing climate-related risk and balance multiple needs and safeguard water supplies for opportunity and working with others to enhance the global policy future generations.
Transparency through appropriate disclosure of water use, More information on each element of our strategy performance and interactions across all sectors is critical to is available online at bhp.
In August 2018, we published our inaugural Water Report.
This Report is our first step towards more Climate change governance accessible and transparent reporting of our interactions with water Responding to climate change is a priority governance and strategic from extraction to use and discharge and of our water-related issue for BHP.
Our Board is actively engaged in the governance of performance and risks.
climate change issues, supported by the Sustainability Committee.
Management has primary responsibility for the design and implementation of our climate change strategy.
Reducing our operational emissions is a key performance indicator for our business and our performance against our targets outlined in this section is reflected in senior executive and leadership remuneration.
All data in this section includes Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
8 Climate change continued Stakeholder engagement Climate-related financial disclosures Our climate change strategy is supported by active engagement Our climate-related disclosures in this Report are aligned with with our stakeholders, including investors, policy makers, peer the recommendations of the Financial Stability Boards Task Force companies and non-governmental organisations.
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD.
We believe the TCFD recommendations represent an important step towards We periodically hold one-on-one and group meetings with establishing a widely accepted framework for climate-related investors and their advisers.
In FY2018, our climate-related investor financial risk disclosure and we have been a firm supporter of engagement included meetings held in Australia, the United this work.
Our Vice President of Sustainability and Climate Change, Kingdom, the United States and South Africa.
Dr Fiona Wild, is a member of the Task Force.
We also seek input and insight from external experts, such as the We are committed to continuing to work with the TCFD and our BHP Forum on Corporate Responsibility FCR.
The FCR, which is peers in the resources sector to support the wider adoption of the composed of civil society leaders and BHP executives, has played TCFD recommendations and the development of more effective a critical role in the development of our position on climate change.
disclosure practices within the sector.
During FY2018, the FCR met twice, with both meetings including discussion of the delivery of our climate change strategy, including As responding to climate change is an integral part of our strategy our emissions reduction targets.
and operations, our TCFD-aligned disclosures can be found throughout this Report.
The table below shows how our disclosures Informed by this engagement, we regularly review our approach in this Report align to the TCFD recommendations and where the to climate change in response to emerging scientific knowledge, relevant information can be found.
changes in global climate policy and regulation, developments in low emissions technologies and evolving stakeholder expectations.
For information on our program of engagement, refer to section 2.3.
Location of TCFD-aligned disclosures TCFD recommendation BHP disclosure Reference Governance Disclose the organisations governance around climate-related risks and opportunities a Describe the Boards oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.
4 Board skills and experience climate change 2.8 Sustainability committee role and focus 2.13.4 b Describe managements role in assessing and managing climate-related risks Managing performance and risk 1.4.
Climate change managing risk and opportunity 1.9.
8 Sustainability committee role and focus 2.13.4 FY2018 STI performance outcomes 3.3.
2 Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisations businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material a Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified Principal risks external risks 1.6.
4 over the short, medium, and long term.
4 Climate change managing risk and opportunity 1.9.
8 b Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisations Principal risks external risks 1.6.
4 businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
8 c Describe the resilience of the organisations strategy, taking into consideration Climate change evaluating the resilience of our portfolio 1.9.
8 different climate-related scenarios, including a 2C or lower scenario.
Risk management Disclose how the organisation identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks a Describe the organisations processes for identifying and assessing Managing performance and risk 1.4.
Management of principal risks sustainability risks 1.6.
5 b Describe the organisations processes for managing climate-related risks.
3 Management of principal risks sustainability risks 1.6.
5 c Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related Managing performance and risk 1.4.
3 risks are integrated into the organisations overall risk management.
2 Management of principle risks sustainability risks 1.6.
5 Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material a Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks and Non-financial KPIs sustainability KPIs 1.5.
2 opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.
Climate change delivering against our emissions 1.9.
8 Climate change managing our value chain emissions b Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas GHG Non-financial KPIs sustainability KPIs 1.5.
2 emissions, and the related risks.
8 reduction targets Climate change managing our value chain emission 1.9.
8 c Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and Non-financial KPIs sustainability KPIs 1.5.
2 opportunities and performance against targets.
8 reduction targets FY2018 STI performance outcomes 3.3.
2 50 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Managing our operational emissions Investing in low emissions technologies Defining a pathway to net-zero emissions for our long-life assets As a major energy consumer, BHP considers energy use management, energy security and GHG emissions reduction at requires planning for the long term and a deep understanding of the development pathway for low emissions technologies.
Our strategy our operations as key components of our climate change strategy.
is to develop emerging, and deploy existing, technologies that Delivering against our emissions reduction targets make step-change reductions in GHG emissions, both from our In FY2018, we began working towards a new five-year GHG own operations and from the downstream processing and use emissions reduction target.
Our new target, which took effect of our products as described below.
from 1 July 2017, is to maintain our total operational emissions 1 We have a suite of initiatives currently underway aimed at achieving in FY2022 at or below FY2017 levels while we continue to grow reductions across our major operational emissions sources: our business.
Our new target builds on our success in achieving Zero-carbon electricity supply: emissions from electricity use our previous five-year target.
make up 46 per cent of our operational emissions.
This includes Our operational emissions Scopes 1 and 2 combined in FY2018 both the power we generate ourselves and the power we buy from totalled 16.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent COe.
Our strategy seeks to accelerate the This is a 1 per cent increase compared to the FY2017 baseline, transition to lower carbon sources of electricity while balancing and is primarily due to an increase in Scope 2 emissions from our cost, reliability and emissions reductions.
Minerals Americas business as a result of increased production Zero-carbon material movement: emissions from fuel and distillate at our Escondida and Pampa Norte copper assets in Chile, as well 2 make up 35 per cent of our operational emissions, primarily from as the commissioning of the new Escondida desalination plant.
the consumption of diesel in the course of material movement Our five-year target and our longer-term emissions reduction for example haul trucks.
Our strategy is to accelerate and fide-risk goal underpin our strategy and are an important driver of internal technologies and innovations that can transition operations over performance.
In FY2019, we will continue to focus on the delivery time to alternate fuels and greater electrification of mining of our five-year target and on defining a pathway to net-zero equipment and mining methods.
emissions over the coming decades.
Fugitive emissions: fugitive methane emissions from our a Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions million tonnes COe 2 petroleum and coal assets make up 18 per cent of our operational emissions.
Our strategy is to pursue innovation in mitigation Year ended 30 June 2018 2017 2016 technologies for these emissions, which are among the most b Scope 1 10.6 10.5 11.3 technically and economically challenging to reduce.
c Scope 2 5.9 5.8 6.7 In evaluating low emissions technology investment opportunities, Scope 1 & 2 total 16.5 16.3 18.0 we consider technologies with the potential to deliver results across a range of time horizons: emphasise investments that can a Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been calculated on an operational control basis in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting deliver material GHG savings: consider the ability of projects and Standard.
Data includes Continuing and Discontinued operations for the technologies to leverage our global Operating Model replicability, financial years being reported.
scale and market breadth : and evaluate the potential for building b Scope 1 refers to direct GHG emissions from operated assets.
c Scope 2 refers to indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased capacity, capability and internal awareness across our business.
electricity and steam that is consumed by operated assets calculated using the market-based method.
More information on our GHG metrics and targets, including a breakdown of our emissions by source, additional historical data, Our FY2018 GHG intensity was 2.3 tonnes of COe per tonne details of our performance against our current and previous target, 2 and information on our approach to target setting is available online of copper equivalent production FY2017: 2.2 tonnes of COe.
Our FY2018 energy intensity was 21 gigajoules per tonne of 3 copper equivalent production.
Case studies on our low emissions technology investments are available online at bhp.
1 FY2017 baseline will be adjusted for any material acquisitions and divestments based on GHG emissions at the time of the transaction.
Carbon offsets will be used as required.
2 Production-related increases in emissions were partially offset by a change to the electricity emissions factor for Minerals Americas resulting from the interconnection of Chiles northern mainly fossil fuel-based and southern which has a higher proportion of hydropower and other renewables grid systems.
3 Copper equivalent production has been calculated based on FY2018 average realised product prices for FY2018 production, and FY2017 average realised product prices for FY2017 production.
FY2017 GHG intensity has been adjusted since it was previously reported to use production figures based on BHP operational control consistent with GHG reporting boundaries.
4 Includes Scope 1 emissions from natural our gas-fired power generation as well as Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity.
8 Climate change continued Promoting product stewardship Accelerating the development of carbon capture and storage 1 We are working in partnership with others across our value chain Emissions from our value chain Scope 3 emissions are significantly higher than those from our own operations.
We to accelerate the development of technologies with the potential to reduce emissions from the processing and use of our products.
recognise that we have a stewardship role in working with our customers, suppliers and other value chain participants to seek Carbon capture and storage CCS is a key low emissions technology with the potential to play a pivotal role in reducing emissions from to influence emissions reductions across the full lifecycle of our products.
industrial processes such as steel production as well as emissions from the power sector and from oil and gas production.
Managing our value chain emissions While we recognise that progress is required in developing policy In FY2018, Scope 3 emissions in our value chain were 596 million frameworks to support the wider deployment of this technology, tonnes of COe.
The most significant contributors to this total 2 our CCS investments and partnerships focus on mechanisms were emissions from the downstream processing and use of our to reduce costs and accelerate development timeframes.
Our products, which accounted for around 97 per cent of total Scope 3 investments include activities aimed at knowledge sharing from emissions.
In particular, Scope 3 emissions emanating from the commercial-scale projects, development of sectoral deployment steelmaking process the processing and use of our iron ore and 2 roadmaps and funding for research and development at leading metallurgical coal accounted for over 65 per cent of the total.
a Scope 3 GHG emissions million tonnes COe 2 Case studies on our CCS investments and partnerships are available online at bhp.
Scope 3 category 2018 Upstream Purchased goods and services including Managing risk and opportunity capital goods 8.2 Fuel and energy related activities 1.4 We recognise the physical and non-physical impacts of climate b Upstream transportation and distribution 3.6 change may affect our assets, productivity, the markets in which Business travel 0.1 we sell our products and the communities in which we operate.
Employee commuting 0.1 Risks related to the physical impacts of climate change include c Downstream Downstream transportation and distribution 5.0 acute risks resulting from increased severity of extreme weather d Processing of sold products 322.6 events and chronic risks resulting from longer-term changes in Iron ore to steel 317.4 climate patterns.
Non-physical risks arise from a variety of policy, Copper cathode to copper wire 5.2 legal, technological and market responses to the challenges posed Use of sold products 253.8 by climate change and the transition to a lower carbon economy.
Metallurgical coal 112.3 Energy coal 71.0 A broader discussion of our climate-related risk factors and risk Natural gas 36.4 management approach is provided as part of our TCFD-aligned e Crude oil and condensates 29.6 disclosures located throughout this Report, as described above.
Natural gas liquids NGLs 4.5 Adapting to the physical impacts of climate change Investments i. e. our non-operated f joint ventures 1.7 We take a robust, risk-based approach to adapting to the physical g impacts of climate change.
We work with globally recognised Scope 3 total 596.4 agencies to obtain regional analyses of climate science to inform a Scope 3 emissions have been calculated using methodologies consistent with resilience planning at an asset level and improve our understanding the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting of the potential climate vulnerabilities of our operations and Standard.
b Includes product transport where freight costs are covered by BHP e. g. under Our operations are required to build climate resilience into Cost and Freight CFR or similar terms, as well as purchased transport services for process inputs to our operations.
their activities through compliance with the Our Requirements c Product transport where freight costs are not covered by BHP e. g. under Free for Environment and Climate Change standard.
We also require on Board FOB or similar terms.
d All iron ore production is assumed to be processed into steel and all copper new investments to assess and manage risks associated with metal production is assumed to be processed into copper wire for end-use.
the forecast physical impacts of climate change.
As well as this Processing of nickel, zinc, gold, silver, ethane and uranium oxide is not currently ongoing business resilience planning, we continue to look at included, as production volumes are much lower than iron ore and copper and a large range of possible end uses apply.
Processing refining of petroleum ways we can contribute to community and ecosystem resilience.
products is also excluded as these emissions are considered immaterial compared to the end-use product combustion reported in the Use of sold Case studies on our adaptation activities are products category.
e All crude oil and condensates are conservatively assumed to be refined and combusted as diesel.
f For BHP, this category covers the Scope 1 and 2 emissions on an equity basis Evaluating the resilience of our portfolio from our assets that are owned as a joint venture but not operated by BHP.
g There is an element of double counting across emissions categories for our We consider the impacts of climate change in our strategy process.
iron ore and metallurgical coal products: both are used in the same process We recognise the world could respond in a number of different steelmaking further downstream, which inflates the total Scope 3 ways to address climate change.
We use a broad range of scenarios emissions figure.
to consider how divergent policy, technology, market and societal outcomes could impact our portfolio, including low plausibility, More information on Scope 3 emissions associated with extreme shock events.
We also continually monitor the macro our business and the methodologies used to calculate them is available online at bhp.
environment for climate change related developments that would serve as a call to action for us to reassess the resilience of our portfolio.
1 Scope 3 refers to all other indirect GHG emissions not included in Scope 2 from activities across our value chain, including upstream emissions related to the extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels: downstream emissions related to the processing and use of our products: both upstream and downstream transportation and distribution: and emissions from our non-operated joint ventures.
2 Scope 3 emissions reporting necessarily requires a degree of overlap in reporting boundaries due to our involvement at multiple points in the life cycle of the commodities we produce and consume.
A significant example of this is that Scope 3 emissions reported under the Processing of sold products category include the processing of our iron ore to steel.
This third party activity also consumes metallurgical coal as an input, a portion of which is produced by us.
For reporting purposes, we account for Scope 3 emissions from combustion of metallurgical coal with all other fossil fuels under the Use of sold products category, such that a portion of metallurgical coal emissions is accounted for under two categories.
This is an expected outcome of emissions reporting between the different scopes defined under standard GHG accounting practices and is not considered to detract from the overall value of our Scope 3 emissions disclosure.
52 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Our investment evaluation process includes an assessment of Promoting market mechanisms to reduce global emissions 1 non-quantifiable risks such as those that could impact the people In addition to measures to reduce our own emissions, we support and the environment that underpin our licence to operate.
The the development of market mechanisms that reduce global process has also incorporated market and sector based carbon GHG emissions through projects that generate carbon credits.
prices for more than a decade.
Our climate change strategy includes a focus on reducing Our Climate Change: Portfolio Analysis 2015 and Climate emissions from deforestation through support for REDD, the Change: Portfolio Analysis Views after Paris 2016 reports, UN program for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest which are available online at bhp.
com climate, describe in more degradation.
For example, in partnership with the International detail how we have used scenario analysis to evaluate the resilience Finance Corporation IFC and Conservation International CI of our portfolio to both an orderly and a more rapid transition to we developed a first-of-its-kind US$152 million Forests Bond, a 2C world.
BHP provides a price-support mechanism for the bond, which supports the Kasigau Corridor REDD project We are committed to keeping our stakeholders informed of the in Kenya.
During FY2018, we purchased additional carbon credits potential impact of climate change on our business, and continue from the Kasigau Corridor project and continued our support to review and consider developing best practice and evolving of the Alto Mayo REDD project in Peru.
In partnership with CI and Baker McKenzie, in FY2018, we launched Contributing to the global response the Finance for Forests F4F initiative, which aims to share our Climate change is a global challenge that requires collaboration.
experiences to help encourage replication of these investments We prioritise working with others to enhance the global policy and the exploration of other innovative private finance tools to and market response.
conserve forests and further advance REDD.
We co-hosted along Supporting the development of eff ective climate and energy policy with CI and Baker McKenzie F4F roundtables in the United States and the United Kingdom, which were attended by representatives Industry has a key role to play in supporting policy development.
of the public, private and philanthropic sectors.
We engage with governments and other stakeholders to contribute to the development of an effective, long-term policy framework More information on our approach to REDD is available that can deliver a measured transition to a lower carbon economy.
We believe an effective policy framework should include a complementary set of measures, including a price on carbon, support for low emissions technology and measures to build resilience.
We are a signatory to the World Banks Putting a Price on Carbon statement and a partner in the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, a global initiative that brings together leaders from industry, government, academia and civil society with the goal of putting in place effective carbon pricing policies.
We also advocate for a framework of policy settings that will accelerate the deployment of CCS.
We are a member of the Global CCS Institute and, in FY2018, we joined the UK Governments newly formed Council on Carbon Capture Usage and Storage CCUS.
We contribute to policy reviews throughout our global operating regions.
Our climate and energy policy submissions are available online at bhp.
Industry association membership We believe industry associations have the capacity to play a key role in advancing the development of standards, best practice and constructive policy that are of benefit to members, the economy and society.
We also recognise there is increasing stakeholder interest in the nature and role of industry associations and the extent to which the positions of industry associations on key issues are aligned with those of member companies.
During FY2018, we completed a review of our membership of those industry associations that hold an active position on climate and energy policy.
Our Industry association review report, published in December 2017, sets out a list of the material differences between the positions we hold on climate and energy policy, and the advocacy positions on climate and energy policy taken by industry associations to which we belong.
It also describes the outcomes of the review of our membership of those industry associations.
In light of the material difference identified by the review and the narrow range of activities of benefit to BHP from membership, we determined to cease membership of the World Coal Association WCA.
More information on our approach to industry associations, including the Industry association review report, is available online at bhp.
BHP Annual Report 2018 53 1.10 Our businesses The maps in this section should be read in conjunction with the information on mining operations table in section 6.1.
1.10.1 Minerals Australia The Minerals Australia asset group includes operated assets in Western Australia, Queensland, New South Wales and South Australia.
Coober Pedy Olympic Dam Port Augusta Port Lincoln Adelaide Victor Harbor Kangaroo Island South Australia Olympic Dam Port Hwy Copper asset Olympic Dam Key developments during FY2018 The major smelter maintenance upgrade in August 2017 was the Overview largest planned shutdown ever undertaken at Olympic Dam and Located 560 kilometres north of Adelaide, Olympic Dam is one ran for more than 100 days.
Other major upgrade work was carried of the worlds most significant deposits of copper, gold, silver out on the refinery, concentrator and site technology to ensure and uranium.
the ongoing reliability and safety of the Olympic Dam operation.
Olympic Dam is made up of underground and surface operations Guidance for Olympic Dam was reduced to approximately and operates a fully integrated processing facility from ore to metal.
135 kilotonnes kt following a slower than planned ramp-up The underground mine is made up of more than 450 kilometres of after completion of the major smelter maintenance campaign.
Ore mined underground is hauled However, Olympic Dam slightly exceeded the revised guidance by an automated train system to crushing, storage and ore for the full FY2018 at 137 kt.
First ore from the higher-grade Southern Mine Area was extracted The processing plant consists of two grinding circuits in which in early FY2018 with development continuing.
high-quality copper concentrate is extracted from sulphide ore through a flotation extraction process.
Olympic Dam has a fully Looking ahead integrated metallurgical complex with a grinding and concentrating Following the key infrastructure upgrade in FY2018, Olympic Dam circuit, a hydrometallurgical plant incorporating solvent extraction will see a gradual increase in copper production with continued circuits for copper and uranium, a copper smelter, a copper refinery development into the Southern Mine Area.
and a recovery circuit for precious metals.
There are other expansion plans for Olympic Dam, such as the Brownfield Expansion Project, which is expected to be considered by the Board in CY2020, and could see production grow to approximately 330 kilotonnes per annum ktpa.
54 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Rail Line 1 Western Australia Port Hedland Nelson Point Finucane Island Goldsworthy South Hedland Karratha Yarrie Marble Bar Great Northern Highway Port Hedland Newman Rail Line Chichester Deviation Karijini National Yandi Park Mining Area C Orebody South Flank 24 25 Orebody 18 Jimblebar Mt Whaleback Newman Wheelarra Orebody 29 30 35 Existing Operations Port Port Hedland Newman Rail Line Goldsworthy Rail Line Iron ore asset Key developments during FY2018 Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO achieved record production in FY2018, supported by Overview record production at Jimblebar and Mining Area C, and improved Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO is an integrated system of rail reliability.
WAIO has also recorded ongoing productivity four processing hubs and five mines connected by more than improvements, such as the development of a rail-scheduling tool 1,000 kilometres of rail infrastructure and port facilities in the that continually learns and applies new algorithms to optimise Pilbara region of northern Western Australia.
WAIO has adopted a manufacturing mindset WAIOs Pilbara reserve base is relatively concentrated, allowing to lower operational costs through improved truck availability development to be planned around integrated mining hubs and fuel consumption, increased equipment reliability and which are connected to the mines and satellite orebodies by extended equipment life.
This approach enables the value of The Jimblebar truck fleet became fully autonomous in November installed infrastructure to be maximised by using the same 2017.
The autonomous fleet reduces people exposure to hazardous processing plant and rail infrastructure for a number of orebodies.
environments, saves time and allows for greater accuracy.
At each processing hub Newman, Yandi, Mining Area C and In February 2018, BHP received approval to amend its Jimblebar the ore is crushed, beneficiated where necessary environmental licence to increase capacity at its Port Hedland and blended to create high-grade hematite lump and fines operations to 290 million tonnes per annum Mtpa.
Iron ore products are then transported along the Port HedlandNewman Rail Line to the Finucane Island and On 14 June 2018, the BHP Board approved US$2.9 billion in Nelson Point port facilities at Port Hedland.
capital expenditure for the development of the new South Flank project.
This is in addition to BHPs pre-commitment funding There are four main WAIO joint ventures JVs : Mt Newman, Yandi, of US$184 million, which was approved in June 2017.
South Flank Mt Goldsworthy and Jimblebar.
BHPs interest in each of the joint will fully replace production from the 80 Mtpa 100 per cent basis ventures is 85 per cent, with Mitsui and ITOCHU owning the Yandi Mine, with first ore targeted in the CY2021.
It will contribute remaining 15 per cent.
The joint ventures are unincorporated, to an increase in WAIOs average iron grade from 61 per cent to except Jimblebar.
62 per cent, and the overall proportion of lump from 25 per cent BHP, Mitsui and ITOCHU have also entered into separate joint to approximately 35 per cent.
venture agreements with some customers that involve the Looking ahead sublease of parts of WAIOs existing mineral leases at Wheelarra and POSMAC.
The Wheelarra JV sublease expired in March 2018 We will continue to focus on productivity improvements through standardised work processes, simplification and further cost and the Wheelarra JV is now in the process of being wound up.
As such, control of the sublease area reverted to the Jimblebar reduction, coupled with supply chain debottlenecking initiatives at the port and rail to improve stability and reliability of the network JV in March 2018. and increase production to 290 Mtpa.
A program of work to optimise The ore from the Wheelarra and POSMAC JVs is sold to the main maintenance schedules across our supply chain and improve port joint ventures.
BHP is entitled to 85 per cent of this production.
reliability and performance is planned for the September 2018 All ore is transported by rail on the Mt Newman JV and Mt quarter, with a corresponding impact expected on production Goldsworthy JV rail lines to the port facilities.
WAIOs port facilities and unit costs.
at Nelson Point are owned by the Mt Newman JV and Finucane Island is owned by the Mt Goldsworthy JV.
BHP Annual Report 2018 55 1.10.1 Minerals Australia continued Abbot Point Bowen Queensland, Australia Collinsville Mackay Dalrymple Bay Broadmeadow Hay Point South Walker Goonyella Creek Riverside Moranbah Daunia Caval Poitrel Ridge Peak Downs Saraji Dysart Norwich Park RG Tanna Gregory Crinum Rockhampton Emerald Blackwater Blackwater Gladstone BMA Mine BMC Mine Port Rail Coal assets Our coal assets in Australia consist of open-cut and underground BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC mines.
At our open-cut mines, overburden is removed after BMC owns and operates two open-cut metallurgical coal mines blasting, using either draglines or truck and shovel.
Coal is then in the Bowen Basin South Walker Creek Mine and Poitrel Mine.
extracted using excavators or loaders and loaded onto trucks BMC is owned by BHP 80 per cent and Mitsui and Co 20 per cent.
to be taken to stockpiles or directly to a beneficiation facility.
South Walker Creek Mine is located on the eastern flank of At our underground mine, coal is extracted by either longwall the Bowen Basin, 35 kilometres west of the town of Nebo and or continuous miner.
The coal is then transported to stockpiles 132 kilometres west of the Hay Point port facilities.
Poitrel Mine on the surface by conveyor.
Coal from stockpiles is crushed and, is situated southeast of the town of Moranbah and began for a number of the operations, washed and processed through open-cut operations in October 2006. a coal preparation plant.
Domestic coal is transported to nearby Key developments during FY2018 customers via conveyor or rail, while export coal is transported Queensland Coal production was impacted in late 2017 and early to ports on trains.
As part of the coal supply chain, both single 2018 by challenging roof conditions at Broadmeadow underground and multi-user rail and port infrastructure is used.
mine and geotechnical issues triggered by wet weather at Queensland Coal Blackwater open-cut mine.
This was partially offset by record Overview production at five mines, underpinned by improved stripping and truck performance, higher wash-plant throughput from Queensland Coal comprises the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance debottlenecking activities and utilisation of latent dragline capacity BMA and BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC assets in the Bowen at Caval Ridge Mine.
Mining operations at Blackwater stabilised Basin in Central Queensland, Australia.
during the March 2018 quarter and returned to full capacity The Bowen Basins high-quality metallurgical coals are ideally during the June 2018 quarter as inventory levels were rebuilt.
suited to efficient blast furnace operations.
The regions proximity At Broadmeadow, progression through the fault zone was to Asian customers means it is well positioned to competitively completed during the June 2018 quarter.
For BMA, construction has advanced on the US$204 million Queensland Coal has access to key infrastructure in the Bowen Basin, 100 per cent basis Caval Ridge Southern Circuit CRSC project including a modern, multi-user rail network and its own coal-loading in the Bowen Basin, which was approved by BHP in March 2017. terminal at Hay Point, located near the city of Mackay.
Queensland The CRSC project includes an 11-kilometre overland conveyor Coal also has contracted capacity at three other multi-user port system that will transport coal from Peak Downs Mine to the coal facilities: the Port of Gladstone RG Tanna Coal Terminal, Dalrymple handling preparation plant at the nearby Caval Ridge Mine.
The Bay Coal Terminal and Abbot Point Coal Terminal.
project is creating up to 400 new construction jobs and will lock BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA in around 200 ongoing operational roles to operate the expanded contract mining fleet and to perform maintenance on the new BMA is Australias largest coal producer and supplier of infrastructure.
It will also enable full utilisation of the 11.5 Mtpa seaborne metallurgical coal.
It is owned 50:50 by BHP wash plant with ramp-up early in FY2019.
BMA operates seven Bowen Basin mines Goonyella Riverside, Broadmeadow, Daunia, Peak Downs, Saraji, Blackwater and Caval Ridge and owns and operates the Hay Point Coal Terminal near Mackay.
With the exception of the Broadmeadow underground longwall operation, BMAs mines are open-cut, using draglines and truck and shovel fleets for overburden removal.
56 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Gunnedah NSW, Australia Tamworth Quirindi Muswellbrook Mt Arthur Singleton Maitland Cessnock Newcastle NSWEC Port Rail Coal assets On 30 May 2018, the BMA joint venture partners entered into an Looking ahead agreement to sell the Gregory Crinum Mine to Sojitz Corporation Construction of the CRSC project commenced in April 2017 and for A$100 million 100 per cent basis.
Gregory Crinum is a hard is scheduled to be completed by the end of CY2018.
The first coal coking coal mine located 60 kilometres northeast of Emerald in on conveyor is expected in October 2018. the Bowen Basin.
It consists of the Crinum underground mine, In addition to the new conveyor and associated tie-ins, the project Gregory open-cut mine, undeveloped coal resources and on-site will fund a new stockpile pad and run-of-mine station at Peak Downs.
infrastructure, including a coal handling and preparation plant, It includes an upgrade of the existing coal handling preparation maintenance workshops and administration facilities.
Gregory plant and stockyard at Caval Ridge.
BMA also intends to invest Crinum Mines capacity was 6 million tonnes Mt of hard coking in new mining fleet, including excavators and trucks.
coal per annum when production ceased and it was placed into care and maintenance in January 2016.
In addition to the sale Potential future opportunities also include an expansion of the of the mine to Sojitz, BMA will provide appropriate funding Caval Ridge wash plant that would unlock a further 5.7 Mtpa for rehabilitation of existing areas of disturbance at the site.
Completion of the sale is subject to the fulfilment of conditions New South Wales Energy Coal precedent, including customary regulatory approvals.
Overview On 6 February 2018, BMC completed the transaction with Peabody New South Wales Energy Coal NSWEC consists of the Mt Arthur Energy to secure full ownership of the Red Mountain Joint Venture Coal open-cut energy coal mine in the Hunter Valley region of RMJV assets, which was announced in August 2017.
The RMJV New South Wales, Australia.
The site produces coal for domestic assets, which include a coal handling and preparation plant and and international customers in the energy sector.
rail loadout loop, will continue to service BMCs Poitrel Mine and Peabodys Millennium Mine, as well as providing train load out Key developments during FY2018 services for BMA Daunia Mine.
Peabody will continue to use the We are continuing to optimise the mine design by re-opening infrastructure under a tolling arrangement with BMC.
BMA will the Ayredale pit to gain earlier access to a higher margin resource also continue to use the train load out.
over the next decade and constructed multiple elevated roadways to reduce haulage cycle times and increase productivity.
BHP Annual Report 2018 57 1.10.1 Minerals Australia continued Western Newman Australia Mt Keith Cliffs Leinster Geraldton Kalgoorlie Smelter Kambalda Concentrator Perth Kwinana Refinery Fremantle Ravensthorpe Albany Nickel West Port Hwy Nickel West Key developments in FY2018 Overview In FY2018, Nickel West began its transition to become a global Nickel West is a fully integrated mine-to-market nickel business.
All nickel operations mines, concentrators, a smelter and refinery supplier to the battery materials market, approving funding and beginning preparatory works for the first phase of a nickel sulphate are located in Western Australia.
The integrated business adds value throughout our nickel supply chain, with the majority of plant which will be located at the Kwinana Nickel Refinery.
Stage 1 is expected to produce 100 ktpa of nickel sulphate.
A mini-plant Nickel Wests current production sold as powder and briquettes.
has been constructed to deliver samples of nickel sulphate product Low-grade disseminated sulphide ore is mined from Mt Keith, to customers.
The ore is crushed and processed on-site to produce nickel concentrate.
High-grade nickel In FY2018, we continued to progress regulatory environmental approvals and consulted with Traditional Owners regarding sulphide ore is mined at Cliffs and Leinster underground mines and Rockys Reward open-pit mine.
The ore is processed through a satellite pit at the Mt Keith operation, which will supply ore to the Mt Keith concentrator.
a concentrator and dryer at Leinster.
Nickel Wests concentrator plant in Kambalda processes ore and concentrate purchased The Venus project has been approved for execution at the Leinster from third parties.
Nickel operation, with definitional drilling and development having commenced.
A study reviewed the resource beneath The three streams of nickel concentrate come together at the Nickel West Kalgoorlie smelter, a vital part of our integrated the Perseverance Sub-Level Cave and recommended the installation of a small Block Cave.
The smelter uses a flash furnace to smelt concentrate to produce nickel matte.
Nickel West Kwinana then refines to start the development on 1 July 2018 was approved.
granulated nickel matte from the Kalgoorlie smelter into Looking ahead premium-grade nickel powder and briquettes containing First production from the nickel sulphate plant at the Kwinana 99.8 per cent nickel.
Nickel matte and metal are exported Nickel Refinery is expected at the end of FY2019.
We continue to overseas markets via the Port of Fremantle.
to explore options for a Stage 2, 200 kt nickel sulphate facility.
We will continue test work on a cobalt sulphate circuit plant at the Kwinana Nickel Refinery, which would produce a cobalt sulphate product.
At Mt Keith, we will commence mining at the Mt Keith Satellite Project, subject to regulatory approvals.
At Leinster, we anticipate declaring reserves for Venus and commencing production by the end of FY2019.
We will potentially start developing the Leinster Block Cave and begin an extensive exploration program utilising the underground platform created by the Venus drives.
58 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.10.2 Minerals Americas 1 The Minerals Americas asset group includes projects, operated assets and non-operated joint ventures in Canada, Chile, Peru, the United States, Colombia and Brazil.
These produce copper, zinc, iron ore and coal.
Operated assets PERU Chile BOLIVIA Cerro Colorado Iquique Pica Pacific Ocean CHILE Tocopilla Calama Spence Mejillones ARGENTINA Antofagasta Minera Escondida Mine Copper Our operated copper assets in the Americas, Escondida and Pampa The Escondida Water Supply Expansion EWSE project was Norte, are open-cut mines.
At these mines, overburden is removed sanctioned by the joint venture parties in March 2018 and will deliver after blasting, using a truck and shovel.
Ore is then extracted and its first water in FY2020.
EWSE comprises the expansion of the further processed into high-quality copper concentrate or cathode.
Escondida Water Supply EWS conveyance system by 1,300 litres Copper concentrate is obtained through a grinding and flotation per second and desalination plant system by 800 litres per second.
process, while copper cathode is produced from a leaching, This project, in conjunction with the existing desalination installed solvent extraction and electrowinning process.
Copper concentrate capacity, will reduce reliance on ground water sources and enable is transported to ports via pipeline, while cathode is transported Escondida to achieve its production plans.
At the end of FY2018, the by either rail or road.
From the port, it is exported to our customers proportion of desalinated water in use at Escondida was 38 per cent.
The next step in Escondidas transition to desalinated water is the sustainable reduction of ground water usage with the goal Escondida Chile of eliminating ground water usage entirely by 2030, in line with Overview BHPs commitment to changing the balance of its water supply We operate and own 57.5 per cent of the Escondida mine, which is sources.
The strategy focuses on increasing the use of desalinated a leading producer of copper concentrate and cathodes.
Escondida, water, recovering more water from operational processes and located in the Atacama Desert in northern Chile, is a copper porphyry gradually reducing the use of water from aquifers.
Following the commissioning of the Escondida Water In October 2017, Escondida and Union N2 of Supervisors and Supply project and ramp-up of the Los Colorados Concentrator in the September 2017 quarter, Escondidas two open-cut mines Staff signed a new collective bargaining agreement valid until 30 September 2020. feed three concentrator plants which use grinding and flotation technologies to produce copper concentrate, as well as two The agreement with Workers Union N1 expired on 1 August 2018. leaching operations oxide and sulphide.
On 17 August 2018, Escondida successfully completed negotiations with Union N1 and signed a new collective agreement, effective Key developments during FY2018 for 36 months from 1 August 2018.
Escondida copper production in FY2018 increased by 57 per cent to 1,213 kt, reflecting a full-year of production following the industrial Looking ahead action in the previous year and supported by the start-up of the Production of between 1,120 and 1,180 kt is forecast in FY2019, Los Colorados Extension project on 10 September 2017.
The addition as higher expected throughput is offset by a significant decrease of the third concentrator helps offset grade decline over the in average concentrator head grade consistent with the mine plan.
next decade and adds incremental annual copper production.
As well as continuing to expand the capacity of the existing Production attributed to the Los Colorados concentrator in desalination plant to reduce ground water usage, we will also FY2018 was 208.9 kt.
realise further latent capacity by debottlenecking the concentrators and maximising concentrator throughput, implementing leaching process improvements to sustain cathodes production and increase fleet run time by optimising maintenance.
BHP Annual Report 2018 59 1.10.2 Minerals Americas continued PERU Chile BOLIVIA Cerro Colorado Iquique Pica Pacific Ocean CHILE Tocopilla Calama Spence Mejillones ARGENTINA Antofagasta Minera Escondida Mine Copper During FY2018, Spence reached an agreement with the Supervisors Pampa Norte Chile Union and signed a new contract effective for three years from Overview 1 April 2018.
On 12 June 2018, the company completed negotiations Pampa Norte consists of two wholly owned assets in the Atacama with the Workers Union that resulted in a new collective bargaining Desert in northern Chile Spence and Cerro Colorado.
Spence contract for three years, effective from 1 June 2018. and Cerro Colorado produce high-quality copper cathode, On 13 July 2018, Compaa Minera Cerro Colorado and its using oxide and sulphide ore treatment through leaching, solvent extraction and electrowinning processes.
Supervisors and Staff Union signed a new collective bargaining agreement for three years effective from 1 July 2018.
Key developments during FY2018 BHP has entered into an agreement to sell Cerro Colorado to private Pampa Norte copper production for FY2018 increased by equity manager EMR Capital.
The sale is subject to financing and four per cent to 264 kt, supported by record copper cathode customary closing conditions, and is expected to be completed production of 200 kt at Spence for the full-year driven by higher during the December 2018 quarter.
throughput in the dry area through better maintenance and production practices, and the Spence Recovery Optimisation Looking ahead project implemented in December 2016, enabling higher recoveries.
Production at Spence is expected to be between 185 and 200 kt in FY2019, with volumes weighted to the second half as planned In August 2017, the BHP Board approved an investment of US$2.5 billion for the development of the Spence Growth maintenance in May and June 2018 contributed to a lower stacking rate.
The project involves the design, engineering and construction of a 95 kilotonnes per day ktpd concentrator In line with operational initiatives under evaluation, Spence will and the outsourcing of a 1,000 litre per second desalination continue evaluating materials handling and fleet replenishment plant, creating up to 5,000 jobs during the construction phase.
options, with a view to fully leverage the use of technology at SGO will extend the life of the mine by more than 50 years the mine site.
This includes considering a redesign of the mines and is expected to increase copper production capacity by operational philosophy, with a crushing and conveying ore system approximately 185 ktpa, with first production expected in FY2021.
The timing and sequencing The current copper cathode stream will continue until FY2025.
of these options is pertinent to reducing health and safety risks Since the approval date, SGO has achieved key operational and operating costs, with technology enabled solutions potentially significantly reducing risks associated with crash, collision and milestones, starting execution phase earlier than planned.
Earthwork and foundations for the concentrator area have started rollover, silica exposure, dust and greenhouse gas emissions.
and camp construction plan is on track, delivering 2,000 beds The existing agreement between Cerro Colorado and the Operators as of 30 June 2018.
Furthermore, the desalination Build Own and Maintainers Union expired on 31 August 2018.
Cerro Colorado Operate Transfer BOOT contract has been awarded.
is currently in negotiations with the Union to sign a new agreement.
60 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Prince Albert Saskatchewan, Canada Wolverine Burr Saskatoon Jansen Young Yorkton Boulder Stalwart Holdfast Melville Regina Moose Jaw Regina Weyburn Assiniboia BHP Potential Projects BHP Land Permits Extent of Mine Integrity Prairie Evaporite 1,100m Potash Overview Non-operated minerals joint ventures Potash is a potassium-rich salt mainly used in fertiliser to improve BHP holds interests in companies and joint ventures that we do not the quality and yield of agricultural production.
Our non-operated minerals joint ventures NOJVs include nutrient for plant growth, potash is a vital link in the global food Antamina 33.75 per cent ownership, Resolution 45 per cent supply chain.
The demands on that supply chain are intensifying: ownership, Cerrejn 33.33 per cent ownership, Samarco there will be more people to feed in future, as well as rising calorific 50 per cent ownership and Nimba 43 per cent ownership NOJVs.
intake comprising more varied diets.
The strains this will place on We engage with our non-operated minerals joint venture partners finite land supply mean sustainable increases in crop yields will be and operator companies through our Non-Operated Joint Ventures crucial and potash fertilisers will be critical in replenishing our soils.
team, which seeks to sustainably maximise returns and manage Jansen Potash Project risks of our investment in NOJVs.
While NOJVs have their own operating and management standards, we seek to influence BHP holds exploration permits and mining leases covering operator companies to adopt appropriate governance and risk approximately 9,600 square kilometres in the province of management standards within the limits of the relevant joint Saskatchewan, Canada.
The Jansen Potash Project is located venture agreements.
approximately 140 kilometres east of Saskatoon.
We currently own The team engages with our NOJV partners and companies and 100 per cent of this Project.
other relevant internal and external stakeholders and provides Jansens large resource endowment provides the opportunity a single point of accountability for all NOJVs within BHP.
The team to develop it in stages, with anticipated initial capacity of 4 Mtpa.
also looks for opportunities to contribute to an improvement in Key developments during FY2018 joint venture governance across the mining sector.
In the year since the team was established, we have built up the capabilities Over the year, our focus was on the safe excavation and preliminary that we need to influence our NOJV partners and defined a strategy lining of two 7.3-metre diameter shafts.
Excavation of both the based on three pillars: service shaft and the production shaft was completed by the end of August 2018, at a depth of 1,005 metres and 975 metres Governance: support strong governance and day-to-day working relationships with our NOJV partners.
As a shareholder of our respectively.
Both shafts reached potash in the Upper and Lower Patience Lake formations during FY2018.
Jansen is intended NOJVs, our priority is to improve governance at NOJVs through benchmarking of board practices, influencing changes at the to mine the Lower Patience Lake formation, which lies between 935 metres and 940 metres.
board level and supporting operator companies to embed clear accountabilities and governance principles.
In June 2018, the Board approved further funding to cover support Risk: support operator companies to implement strong risk services at the site as work continues on completion of the shafts, management discipline at NOJVs in accordance with the global updating the approved investment for the current scope of work risk management standards from the International Standards on the Jansen Potash Project to US$2.7 billion.
We are working to influence operator Looking ahead companies to align their risk process to these standards, elevate Future work will include installing watertight composite concrete risk management at the operator boards and management and steel final liners in both shafts.
We continue to assess how committees and develop a strategy to improve risk practices.
to reduce risk and unlock value as we complete the shafts.
At the One of our goals in doing so is to gain a clearer understanding end of FY2018, the current scope of work was 79 per cent complete.
of BHPs risk exposure from its NOJVs so that we can then In the meantime, we are considering multiple options to maximise define and implement more targeted controls for those risks.
the value of Jansen, including further improvements to capital Value: become a highly trusted adviser to our NOJVs, efficiency, optimisation of design and diluting our interest by encouraging them to achieve the best performance and create bringing in a partner.
As with all decisions relating to the deployment value for shareholders.
We work to encourage all shareholders of capital, next steps with the Project will be assessed by reference of NOJVs to consider the best strategic option to increase to our Capital Allocation Framework.
More information on health, safety and environment performance at our NOJVs is available in our Sustainability Report 2018, available online at bhp.
BHP Annual Report 2018 61 1.10.2 Minerals Americas continued Non-operated minerals joint ventures Santa District Chingas Chimbote District Huari Casma District Huaraz Antamina Mine La Gramita Puerto Huarmey Las Zorras Huari Province, Barranca Ancash, District Peru Antamina Mine Port Hwy Copper Antamina Peru Resolution Copper United States Overview Overview We own 33.75 per cent of Antamina, a large, low-cost copper We hold a 45 per cent interest in the Resolution Copper project in and zinc mine in north central Peru.
Antamina is a joint venture the US state of Arizona, which is operated by Rio Tinto 55 per cent between BHP 33.75 per cent, Glencore 33.75 per cent, Teck interest.
Resolution Copper is one of the largest undeveloped Resources 22.5 per cent and Mitsubishi Corporation 10 per cent copper projects in the world and has the potential to become and is operated by Compaa Minera Antamina S. A. Antamina the largest copper producer in North America.
The Resolution by-products include molybdenum and silver.
Copper deposit lies more than 1,600 metres beneath the surface.
Resolution Copper is working with regulators and the community Key developments during FY2018 to plan the development of the resource and obtain the Copper production for FY2018 increased by four per cent to necessary permits.
140 kt, with zinc increasing by 37 per cent to 120 kt.
Throughout Key developments during FY2018 FY2018, Antamina continued to study options to debottleneck the operation and increase throughput, with strong focus on Restoration of the historic No.
9 shaft, originally constructed in 1971, evaluating new technologies.
The initial phase of the project is to rehabilitate the shaft down to its current depth at 1,460 metres below the surface.
Looking ahead Eventually, the shaft will be extended down to approximately Antamina remains focused on improving productivity and reducing 2,086 metres and will link with the existing No.
Copper production is expected to remain at similar Studies to identify the best development pathway for the project levels in FY2019 at approximately 135 kt, while zinc production progressed in FY2018.
The multi-year National Environmental is expected to be approximately 85 kt, consistent with the mine Policy Act permitting process and community engagement are plan.
The three-year Antamina Union Agreement expired on 31 July progressing positively.
Our share of the project expenditure for 2018.
Antamina is currently in negotiations with the Union to sign FY2018 was US$57 million.
Looking ahead We remain focused on optimising the Resolution Copper project and working with the operator, Rio Tinto, to develop the project in a manner that creates sustainable benefits for all stakeholders.
Next key milestones for the project are in December 2018 when rehabilitation of Shaft 9 is due to be completed and CY2019 when a draft version of the environmental impact study is expected to be made public.
A single preferred investment alternative has not yet been selected for the final investment decision.
62 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 La Guajira Minas Gerais, province, Colombia Esprito Santo Brazil Puerto Bolivar Gov.
Valadares Caribbean Sea Belo Horizonte Main Offices Nova Era Antnio Dias Uribia Guilman-Amorim Hydroelectric Plant Riohacha Vitria Maicao Sales Office Gulf of Venezuela Mining Lease COLOMBIA Mariana Ouro Preto Muniz Freire Germano Muniz Freire Operational Unit Hydroelectric Plant Cerrejn Anchieta Operational unit and Ocean Terminal at Maracaibo Ponta Ubu VENEZUELA Juiz fide Fora Cerrejn Port Rail Samarco 1st pipeline 2nd pipeline 3rd pipeline Coal Iron ore Cerrejn Colombia Samarco Brazil Overview BHP Billiton Brasil Limitada and Vale S. A. each holds a 50 per cent shareholding in Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco, the owner of We have a one-third interest in Cerrejn, which owns, operates the Samarco iron ore mine in Brazil.
and markets one of the worlds largest open-cut export energy coal mines, located in the La Guajira province of Colombia.
Overview Cerrejn also owns and operates integrated rail and port facilities As a result of the tragic dam failure at Samarco in November 2015, through which the majority of production is exported to European, operations at Samarco remain suspended.
For more information Asian, North and South American customers.
on the Samarco dam failure, refer to section 1.8.
Cerrejns coal assets consist of an open-cut mine.
Overburden Samarco comprises a mine and three concentrators located in is removed after blasting, using either draglines or truck and the state of Minas Gerais, and four pellet plants and a port located shovel.
Coal is then extracted using excavators or loaders and in Anchieta in the state of Esprito Santo.
Three 400-kilometre loaded onto trucks to be taken to stockpiles or directly to our pipelines connect the mine site to the pelletising facilities.
Samarcos main product is iron ore pellets.
Prior to the suspension Coal from stockpiles is crushed, of which a certain portion of operations, the extraction and beneficiation of iron ore were is washed and processed through the coal preparation plant.
conducted at the Germano facilities in the municipalities of Domestic coal is transported to nearby customers via conveyor.
Front end loaders were used to extract the Export coal is transported to the port via trains.
ore and convey it from the mines.
Ore beneficiation then occurred Cerrejn production declined three per cent to 10,616 kt in in concentrators, where crushing, milling, desliming and flotation FY2018, due to unfavourable weather impacts on mine sequencing, processes produced iron concentrate.
The concentrate leaves the equipment availability and higher strip ratio areas being mined.
concentrators as slurry and is pumped through the slurry pipelines from the Germano facilities to the pellet plants in Ubu, Anchieta, Looking ahead where the slurry is processed into pellets.
The iron ore pellets Cerrejn is focused on stability of throughput with current installed are then heat treated.
The pellet output is stored in a stockpile capacity and securing the necessary permits to access ore reserves.
yard before being shipped out of the Samarco-owned Port of Ubu in Anchieta.
Key developments during FY2018 For information on the progress made on remediation, resettlement and compensation in response to the Fundo dam failure, refer to section 1.8.
Looking ahead Restart of Samarcos operations remains a focus, but is subject to separate negotiations with relevant parties and will occur only if it is safe, economically viable and has the support of the community.
Resuming operations requires the granting of licences by state and federal authorities, community hearings and an appropriate restructure of Samarcos debt.
BHP Annual Report 2018 63 1.10.3 Petroleum Conventional petroleum BHP has owned oil and gas assets since the 1960s.
We have high-margin conventional assets located in the US Gulf of Mexico, Australia, Trinidad and Tobago, Algeria and the United Kingdom, as well as prospects in Mexico and Barbados.
Our conventional petroleum business includes exploration, appraisal, development and production activities.
We produce crude oil and condensate, gas and natural gas liquids NGLs that are sold on the international spot market or delivered domestically under contracts with varying terms, depending on the location of the asset.
New Orleans LOUISIANA Gulf of Mexico Shenzi Neptune Atlantis United States Mad Dog BHP acreage Petroleum United States Key developments during FY2018 Mad Dog Phase 2, located in the Green Canyon area in the Gulf of Mexico Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, is an extension of the existing Mad Overview Dog field.
The Mad Dog Phase 2 project is in response to the We operate two fields in the US waters of Gulf of Mexico Shenzi successful Mad Dog South appraisal well, which confirmed 44 per cent interest and Neptune 35 per cent interest.
significant hydrocarbons in the southern portion of this field.
We hold non-operating interests in two other fields Atlantis The project cost has more than halved since 2013, with a revised 44 per cent interest and Mad Dog 23.9 per cent interest.
field development concept leading to significant cost reductions.
All our producing fields are located between 155 and 210 kilometres It is now estimated to be US$9 billion on a 100 per cent basis offshore from the US state of Louisiana.
We also own 25 per cent US$2.2 billion BHP share.
The Mad Dog Phase 2 project was and 22 per cent, respectively, of the companies that own and sanctioned by BP the operator in December 2016, and was operate the Caesar oil pipeline and the Cleopatra gas pipeline.
approved by the BHP Board in February 2017.
The project includes These pipelines transport oil and gas from the Green Canyon area, a new floating production facility with the capacity to produce where our US Gulf of Mexico fields are located, to connecting up to 140,000 gross barrels of crude oil per day from up to 14 pipelines that transport product onshore.
Production is expected to begin in FY2022.
64 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Thebe North West Shelf VICTORIA Scarborough Maffra Snapper Tuna Sale Kipper Longford Dampier Australia Turrum Flounder Bream Halibut Macedon Onslow Pyrenees Barracoutta Blackback Kingfish WESTERN AUSTRALIA Bass Strait 0 200km 02 100 30km BHP acreage Oil fields Gas fields Petroleum Pyrenees Australia We operate six oil fields in Pyrenees, which are located offshore Overview around 23 kilometres northwest of Northwest Cape, Western Bass Strait Australia.
We had an effective 62 per cent interest in the fields We have produced oil and gas from Bass Strait 50 per cent as at 30 June 2018 based on inception-to-date production interest for close to 50 years.
Our operations are located between from two permits in which we have interests of 71.43 per cent 25 and 80 kilometres off the southeastern coast of Australia.
The development uses a floating, The Gippsland Basin Joint Venture, operated by Esso Australia production, storage and off-take FPSO facility.
a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, participated in the original discovery Macedon and development of hydrocarbons in the field.
More recently, the Kipper gas field under the Kipper Unit Joint Venture also operated We are the operator of Macedon 71.43 per cent interest, an by Esso Australia has brought online additional gas and liquids offshore gas field located around 75 kilometres west of Onslow, production that are processed via the existing Gippsland Basin Western Australia and an onshore gas processing facility, located Joint Venture facilities.
around 17 kilometres southwest of Onslow.
We sell the majority of our Bass Strait crude oil and condensate The operation consists of four subsea wells, with gas piped onshore production to local refineries in Australia.
Gas is piped onshore to the processing plant.
After processing, the gas is delivered into to the joint ventures Longford processing facility, from where a pipeline and sold to the West Australian domestic market.
we sell our share of production to domestic retailers and end Minerva users.
Liquefied petroleum gas LPG is dispatched via pipeline, We are the operator of the Minerva Joint Venture 90 per cent road tanker or sea tanker.
Ethane is dispatched via pipeline interest, a gas field located 11 kilometres south-southwest of to a petrochemical plant in western Melbourne.
Port Campbell in western Victoria.
The operation consists of two North West Shelf subsea wells, with gas piped onshore to a processing plant.
After We are a joint venture participant in the North West Shelf processing, the gas is delivered into a pipeline and sold domestically.
Project 12.516.67 per cent interest, located approximately On 1 May 2018, BHP entered into an agreement for the sale of 125 kilometres northwest of Dampier in Western Australia.
The its interests in the onshore gas plant with subsidiaries of Cooper North West Shelf Project supplies gas to the Western Australian Energy and Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Ltd.
The agreement, which is domestic market and liquefied natural gas LNG to buyers primarily conditional on completion of regulatory approvals and assignments, in Japan, South Korea and China.
provides for the transfer of the plant and associated land after the North West Shelf gas is piped from offshore fields to the onshore cessation of current operations processing gas from the Minerva Karratha Gas Plant for processing.
LPG, condensate and LNG are gas field.
Following Minerva end-of-field life, the wells will be transported to market by ship, while domestic gas is transported plugged and abandoned.
by the Dampier-to-Bunbury and Pilbara Energy pipelines to buyers.
We are also a joint venture partner in four nearby oil fields Cossack, Wanaea, Lambert and Hermes.
All North West Shelf gas and oil joint ventures are operated by Woodside.
BHP Annual Report 2018 65 1.10.3 Petroleum continued Petroleum Key developments during FY2018 Other conventional petroleum assets North West Shelf Other: Greater Western FlankB Overview The Greater Western Flank 2 project was sanctioned by the Board Trinidad and Tobago in December 2015 and represents the second phase of development We operate the Greater Angostura field 45 per cent interest in the of the core Greater Western Flank fields, behind the GWF-A production sharing contract, an integrated oil and gas development development.
It is located to the southwest of the existing located offshore 40 kilometres east of Trinidad.
The crude oil is Goodwyn A platform.
The development comprises six fields sold on a spot basis to international markets, while the gas is sold and eight subsea wells.
Execution activities are in progress, domestically under term contracts.
with first production expected in CY2019.
Our share of Algeria development costs is around US$216 million.
Our Algerian asset comprises an effective 29.3 per cent interest in Scarborough the ROD Integrated Development, which consists of six satellite oil Development planning for the large Scarborough gas field fields that pump oil back to a dedicated processing train.
The oil is located offshore from Western Australia is in progress.
Further sold on a spot basis to international markets.
ROD is jointly operated work to optimise a preferred development option is ongoing.
On 14 November 2016, we completed the divestment of United Kingdom 50 per cent of our interest in the undeveloped Scarborough We hold 16 per cent non-operating interest in the Bruce oil and gas area gas fields to Woodside Energy Limited Woodside.
field in the North Sea and a 31.83 per cent non-operating interest The transaction included half of BHPs interests in WA-1-R, in the Keith oil and gas field, a subsea tie-back.
Operatorship of the WA-62-R, WA-61-R and WA-63-R, for an initial cash consideration Keith field was transferred to BP on 31 July 2015.
Oil and gas from of US$250 million and a further US$150 million payable at the both fields are processed via the Bruce platform facilities.
time a final investment decision is made for the development of the Scarborough gas field.
Following the transaction, BHP holds For more information, refer to section 1.12.1. a 25 per cent non-operated interest in WA-1-R and a 50 per cent non-operated interest in WA-61-R, WA-62-R and WA-63-R. Woodside became the operator of the WA-1-R lease in March 2018 following its acquisition of Essos working interest in the title.
BHP has an option to acquire a further 10 per cent interest in WA-1-R from Woodside on equivalent terms to its Esso transaction.
This option may be exercised at any time prior to the earlier of 31 December 2019 and the date approval is given to commence the front-end engineering and design phase of the development of the Scarborough gas field.
66 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 COL COLORADO ORADO KANS KANSA AS S MISSOURI OKLAHOMA NEW Fayetteville MEXICO ARKANSAS TEXAS Haynesville Permian Houston LOUISIANA Eagle Ford Gulf of Mexico MEXICO United States Gas-focused area Liquids-focused area Unconventional petroleum Haynesville Onshore US The Haynesville production operation is located primarily in On 27 July 2018, BHP announced that we had entered into agreements for the sale of our entire interest in the Eagle Ford, northern Louisiana and consists of approximately 193,000 net acres.
We produce gas that is sold domestically in the United States Permian, Haynesville and Fayetteville Onshore US oil and gas assets for a combined base consideration of US$10.8 billion via connections to intrastate and interstate pipelines.
Our average net working interest operated and non-operated is approximately payable in cash less customary completion adjustments.
Both sales are subject to the satisfaction of customary regulatory 37 per cent.
We acted as joint venture operator for around 38 per cent of our gross wells.
We expect completion to occur by the end of October 2018.
The effective date at Fayetteville which the right to economic profits transfers is 1 July 2018.
The Fayetteville production operation is located in north central Eagle Ford Arkansas and consists of approximately 258,000 net acres.
We produce gas that is sold domestically in the United States The Eagle Ford area approximately 236,000 net acres consists of Black Hawk and Hawkville fields, with production operations via connections to intrastate and interstate pipelines.
Our average net working interest operated and non-operated is approximately located primarily in the southern Texas counties of DeWitt, Karnes, McMullen and LaSalle.
We produce condensate, gas and NGLs 21 per cent.
We acted as joint venture operator for around 19 per cent of our gross wells.
The Fayetteville gathering system from the two fields.
The condensate and gas produced are sold domestically in the United States via connections to intrastate consists of around 770 kilometres of pipelines that deliver volumes to multiple compressor stations where processed volumes are and interstate pipelines, and internationally through the export of processed condensate.
Our average net working interest is around transported to market.
We act as joint venture operator for approximately 34 per cent of our gross wells.
In DeWitt county, we are operators for the drilling and completion phases of the majority of wells.
Non-operated petroleum joint ventures The Eagle Ford gathering system consists of around 1,436 kilometres of pipelines in both Black Hawk and Hawkville fields that deliver In our current non-operated petroleum joint ventures, we have volumes to multiple central delivery points, from which volumes processes in place to identify and manage risks within the rights are treated and transported to market.
We operate the gathering afforded by the respective joint operating agreements.
This system and own 75 per cent of it, while the remaining 25 per cent includes as permitted by the relevant operator and or joint venture is held by Kinder Morgan.
arrangements verification of risk control strategies through field visits, review and analysis of the operators performance data, Permian participation in operator audits and sharing of BHP risk management The Permian production operation is located primarily in the strategies and processes.
western Texas county of Reeves and consists of approximately 83,000 net acres.
We produce oil, gas and NGLs.
The oil and gas are sold domestically in the United States via connections to intrastate and interstate pipelines.
Our average net working interest is approximately 84 per cent.
We acted as joint venture operator for around 83 per cent of our gross wells.
Permian has approximately 162 kilometres of water pipelines and a gathering system that consists of approximately 211 kilometres of gas pipelines that deliver volumes to third party processing plants, from where processed volumes are transported to market.
BHP Annual Report 2018 67 1.10.4 Marketing and Supply Our commercial value chain Marketing and Supply are separate core businesses of BHP, connected under the Commercial function.
By connecting all our commercial activities under a single function and locating them close to our key markets, we have a single They are the link between BHPs global operations, strategic view of our entire value chain.
This allows us to operate our customers and our local and global suppliers, on both sides of the commercial coin.
It helps us create effective and are aligned to our assets.
partnerships with our communities through local procurement and deepen our relationships with our customers and suppliers Marketing globally.
It expands our view of how our markets might evolve, Marketing focuses on optimising realised prices and sales outcomes, so that we can adapt our strategy to take action in a changing presenting a single face to markets and customers across multiple market, including optimising our supply chains.
This allows our assets to focus on safety, volume and cost.
function allows us to rapidly replicate good practice and share Marketing secures sales of BHP products through building longmarket insights across teams.
It ensures effective governance term, sustainable relationships with our customers and manages and risk management, while driving productivity through the associated risks of getting our resources to market.
Marketing a centralised freight business that procures safe, sustainable provides governance of credit, manages market and price risks and procurement solutions.
supports strategic and commercial decision-making by analysing Ensuring long-term sustainability of our value chain commodity markets and providing shortand long-term insights.
Marketing and Supplys outlook on the global economy, the resource Supply industry and each of the commodities in our portfolio supports asset Supply is our global procurement division, which purchases and portfolio investment decisions, strategic planning, valuations goods and services that are used by our assets and functions.
The Commercial teams also inform Supply works with our assets to optimise equipment performance, broader organisational priorities such as our position on climate reduce operating cost and improve working capital.
This includes setting global standards for a sustainable manages supply chain risk and develops sustainable relationships and ethical supply chain that takes into account human rights with both global suppliers and local businesses in our communities.
Marketing and Supply: Strategically located close to our key markets London New Delhi Tokyo Houston Shanghai Manila Kuala Lumpur Singapore Brisbane Perth Santiago Adelaide Melbourne 68 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.11 Summary of financial performance 1 1.11.1 Group overview We prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
We publish our Consolidated Financial Statements in US dollars.
All Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement information below has been derived from audited financial statements.
For more information, refer to section 5.
Unless otherwise stated, comparative financial information for FY2017, FY2016, FY2015 and FY2014 has been restated to reflect the announcement of the sale of the Onshore US assets on 27 July 2018 and the demerger of South32 in FY2015, as required by IFRS 5 AASB 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Consolidated Balance Sheet information for these periods has not been restated as accounting standards do not require it.
Information in this section has been presented on a Continuing operations basis to exclude the contribution from Onshore US assets and assets that were demerged with South32 in FY2015, unless otherwise noted.
Details of the contribution of the Onshore US assets to the Groups results are disclosed in note 26 Discontinued operations in section 5.
Year ended 30 June US$M 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Consolidated Income Statement section 5.1.
1 Revenue 43,638 36,135 28,567 40,413 52,123 Profit from operations 15,996 12,554 2,804 12,887 22,812 Profit loss after taxation from Continuing operations 7,744 6,694 312 7,306 15,068 Loss profit after taxation from Discontinued operations 2,921 472 5,895 4,428 156 Profit loss after taxation from Continuing and Discontinued operations 1 attributable to BHP shareholders Attributable profit loss 3,705 5,890 6,385 1,910 13,832 Dividends per ordinary share paid during the period US cents 98.0 54.0 78.0 124.0 118.0 Dividends per ordinary share determined in respect of the period US cents 118.0 83.0 30.0 124.0 121.0 1 2 Basic earnings loss per ordinary share US cents 69.6 110.7 120.0 35.9 260.0 1 2 Diluted earnings loss per ordinary share US cents 69.4 110.4 120.0 35.8 259.1 2 Basic earnings loss from Continuing operations per ordinary share US cents 125.0 119.8 10.2 119.6 258.4 2 Diluted earnings loss from Continuing operations per ordinary share US cents 124.6 119.5 10.2 119.3 257.5 Number of ordinary shares million At period end 5,324 5,324 5,324 5,324 5,348 Weighted average 5,323 5,323 5,322 5,318 5,321 Diluted 5,337 5,336 5,322 5,333 5,338 3 Consolidated Balance Sheet section 5.1.
2 For more information on earnings per share, refer to note 6 Earnings per share in section 5.
3 The Consolidated Balance Sheet for FY2018 includes the assets and liabilities held for sale in relation to Onshore US, FY2014 includes the assets and liabilities demerged to South32 as IFRS 5 AASB 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations does not require the Consolidated Balance Sheet to be restated for comparative periods.
4 Net operating cash flows are after dividends received, net interest paid and net taxation paid and includes Net operating cash flows from Discontinued operations.
5 Capital and exploration expenditure is presented on a cash basis and represents purchases of property, plant and equipment plus exploration expenditure from the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement in section 5 and includes purchases of property, plant and equipment plus exploration expenditure from Discontinued operations.
FY2015 and FY2014 capital and exploration expenditure has been restated to include Discontinued operations.
Purchase of property, plant and equipment includes capitalised deferred stripping of US$880 million for FY2018 FY2017: US$416 million and excludes capitalised interest.
Exploration expenditure is capitalised in accordance with our accounting policies, as set out in note 10 Property, plant and equipment in section 5.
6 We use alternative performance measures to reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
Underlying attributable profit and Underlying basic earnings per share includes Continuing and Discontinued operations.
Refer to section 1.11.4 for a reconciliation of alternative performance measures to their respective IFRS measure.
Refer to section 1.11.5 for the definition and method of calculation of alternative performance measures.
Refer to note 18 Net debt in section 5 for the composition of Net debt.
BHP Annual Report 2018 69 1.11.2 Financial results The following table expands on the Consolidated Income Statement in section 5.1.
1, to provide more information on the revenue and expenses of the Group in FY2018.
2018 2017 2016 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Continuing operations 1 Revenue 43,638 36,135 28,567 Other income 247 662 432 Employee benefits expense 3,990 3,694 3,605 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 142 743 287 Raw materials and consumables used 4,389 3,830 3,985 Freight and transportation 2,294 1,786 1,648 External services 5,217 4,341 4,370 Third party commodity purchases 1,452 1,151 994 Net foreign exchange losses gains 93 103 153 Government royalties paid and payable 2,168 1,986 1,349 Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred and expensed in the current period 641 610 419 Depreciation and amortisation expense 6,288 6,184 6,210 Impairment of assets 333 193 186 Operating lease rentals 421 391 372 All other operating expenses 1,078 989 819 Expenses excluding net finance costs 28,036 24,515 24,091 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 147 272 2,104 Profit from operations 15,996 12,554 2,804 Net finance costs 1,245 1,417 1,013 Total taxation expense 7,007 4,443 2,103 Profit loss after taxation from Continuing operations 7,744 6,694 312 Discontinued operations Loss after taxation from Discontinued operations 2,921 472 5,895 Profit loss after taxation from Continuing and Discontinued operations 4,823 6,222 6,207 Attributable to non-controlling interests 1,118 332 178 Attributable to BHP shareholders 3,705 5,890 6,385 1 Includes the sale of third party products.
Profit after taxation attributable to BHP shareholders decreased Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related from a profit of US$5.9 billion in FY2017 to a profit of US$3.7 billion impairments and expenses of US$147 million has decreased by in FY2018.
The decrease is primarily due to a change in estimate to the Samarco dam failure provision offset by Revenue of US$43.6 billion increased by US$7.5 billion, or higher sales volumes from Antamina and higher average realised 21 per cent, from FY2017.
This increase was primarily attributable prices received by equity accounted investments in FY2018.
to higher average realised prices across most commodities and higher production volumes at Escondida and WAIO as a result Net finance costs of US$1.2 billion decreased by US$172 million, of the ramp-up of Los Colorados Extension project and improved or 12 per cent, from FY2017 reflecting a lower average debt balance productivity and stability across the supply chain, respectively.
following the bond repurchase program and repayment on maturity This was partially offset by lower volumes from Olympic Dam of Group debt.
This was partially offset by higher benchmark smelter maintenance campaign and the impact of challenging interest rates in the period as well as costs related to the September operating conditions at two Queensland Coal mines Broadmeadow 2017 bond repurchase.
For more information on net finance costs, and Blackwater coupled with lower petroleum volumes due refer to section 1.11.3 and note 18 Net debt in section 5. to Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Nate, and expected natural Total taxation expense of US$7.0 billion increased by US$2.6 billion field decline.
For information on our average realised prices from FY2017.
The increase is primarily due to the impacts of the and production of our commodities, refer to section 1.12.
US tax reform and higher profits in FY2018.
For more information Total expenses of US$28.0 billion increased by US$3.5 billion on income tax expense, refer to note 5 Income tax expense or 14 per cent, from FY2017.
Higher external services of in section 5.
US$876 million has been driven by increased contractors at Olympic Dam to support the smelter maintenance campaign and development into the South Mining Area, and additional contractor stripping fleet costs at Queensland Coal following challenging operating conditions at Broadmeadow and Blackwater.
The increase in changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress of US$601 million was primarily driven by the commissioning of the Los Colorados Extension project at Escondida that resulted in the drawdown of prior year planned build of mined ores and a change in estimated recoverable copper contained in the Escondida sulphide leach pad which benefited costs in the prior period.
Raw materials and consumables used increased by US$559 million driven by operating the Los Colorados Extension project at Escondida and higher diesel costs across the Group.
Freight and transportation increased by US$508 million driven by higher market freight rates and an eight per cent Group copper equivalent production volume growth.
70 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Principal factors that affect Revenue, Profit from operations and Underlying EBITDA 1 The following table describes the impact of the principal factors that affected Revenue, Profit from operations and Underlying EBITDA for FY2018 and relates them back to our Consolidated Income Statement.
For information on the method of calculation of the principal factors that affect Revenue, Profit from operations and Underlying EBITDA, refer to section 1.11.6.
Total expenses, Other income and Depreciation, Profit loss from amortisation and equity accounted Profit from impairments and Underlying Revenue investments operations Exceptional Items EBITDA US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M For the year ended 30 June 2017 Revenue 36,135 Other income 662 Expenses excluding net finance costs 24,515 Profit from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 272 Total other income, expenses excluding net finance costs and Profit from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 23,581 Profit from operations 12,554 1 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 6,160 Exceptional items refer to note 2 Exceptional items in section 5 636 Underlying EBITDA 19,350 Change in sales prices 4,597 328 4,269 4,269 Price-linked costs 124 124 124 Net price impact 4,597 452 4,145 4,145 Productivity volumes 1,378 354 1,024 1,024 Growth volumes 324 68 256 256 Changes in volumes 1,054 286 768 768 Operating cash costs 1,114 1,114 1,114 Exploration and business development 129 129 129 2 Change in controllable cash costs 1,243 1,243 1,243 Exchange rates 32 280 248 248 Inflation on costs 389 389 389 Fuel and energy 224 224 224 Non-cash 425 425 425 One-off items 719 719 719 Change in other costs 32 251 283 283 Asset sales 142 142 142 Ceased and sold operations 11 15 4 4 Other 1,831 1,813 18 18 1 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 461 461 461 Exceptional items 70 70 70 For the year ended 30 June 2018 Revenue 43,638 Other income 247 Expenses excluding net finance costs 28,036 Profit from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 147 Total other income, expenses excluding net finance costs and Profit from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 27,642 Profit from operations 15,996 1 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 6,621 Exceptional items refer to note 2 Exceptional items in section 5 566 Underlying EBITDA 23,183 1 Depreciation and impairments that we classify as exceptional items are excluded from depreciation, amortisation and impairments.
Depreciation, amortisation and impairments includes non-exceptional impairments of US$333 million FY2017: US$188 million.
2 Collectively, we refer to the change in operating cash costs and change in exploration and business development as change in controllable cash costs.
Operating cash costs by definition do not include non-cash costs.
The change in operating cash costs also excludes the impact of exchange rates and inflation, changes in fuel and energy costs, changes in exploration and business development costs and one-off items.
These items are excluded so as to provide a consistent measurement of changes in costs across all segments, based on the factors that are within the control and responsibility of the segment.
Change in controllable cash costs and change in operating cash costs are not measures that are recognised by IFRS.
They may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
BHP Annual Report 2018 71 1.11.2 Financial results continued The total decrease in Underlying EBITDA relating to productivity initiatives in FY2018 was US$96 million compared to an increase of US$1.3 billion in FY2017.
The following table reconciles relevant factors with changes in the Groups productivity: 1 2018 2017 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M Change in operating cash costs 1,114 1,131 Change in exploration and business development 129 170 Change in controllable cash costs 1,243 961 Change in volumes attributed to productivity 1,024 340 Change in productivity in Underlying EBITDA 219 1,301 Change in capitalised exploration 123 21 Change attributable to productivity initiatives 96 1,280 1 FY2018 productivity initiatives excludes Onshore US.
Higher average realised prices across most of our key commodities increased Underlying EBITDA by US$4.3 billion in FY2018.
This was partially offset by an increase to price-linked costs of US$124 million reflecting higher royalty charges.
Productivity volumes in Underlying EBITDA improved by US$1.0 billion primarily as a result of the release of latent capacity at Escondida ramp-up of Los Colorados Extension project and WAIO improved productivity and stability across the supply chain, partially offset by lower volumes from Olympic Dam smelter maintenance campaign and the impact of challenging operating conditions at two Queensland Coal mines Broadmeadow and Blackwater.
This was partially offset by US$256 million lower growth volumes due to Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Nate, and expected natural field decline.
Higher costs reflect unfavourable fixed cost dilution at Olympic Dam smelter maintenance campaign and conventional petroleum natural field decline, challenging operating conditions at two Queensland Coal mines Broadmeadow and Blackwater and a favourable change in estimated recoverable copper in the Escondida sulphide leach pad in the prior period, partially offset by lower labour and contractor costs at WAIO and the impact of higher exploration expenditure attributable to an increase in planning activity in Mexico and the Scimitar well write-off, partially offset by expensing of the Burrokeet and Wildling wells in the prior year.
A weaker US dollar against the Australian dollar and Chilean peso decreased Underlying EBITDA by US$248 million during the period.
Higher capitalisation of deferred stripping at Escondida and increased underground mine development capitalisation at Olympic Dam as development extends into the Southern Mine Area increased Underlying EBITDA by US$425 million.
72 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Cash flow 1 The following table provides a summary of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement contained in section 5.1.
4 to show the key sources and uses of cash during the periods presented: 2018 2017 2016 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Cash generated from operations 22,949 18,612 12,091 Dividends received 709 636 301 Net interest paid 887 984 701 Settlement of cash management related instruments 292 140 Net taxation paid 4,918 2,248 1,851 Net operating cash flows from Continuing operations 17,561 15,876 9,840 Net operating cash flows from Discontinued operations 900 928 785 Net operating cash flows 18,461 16,804 10,625 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 4,979 3,697 5,707 Exploration expenditure 874 966 752 Subtotal: Capital and exploration expenditure 5,853 4,663 6,459 Exploration expenditure expensed and included in operating cash flows 641 610 419 Net investment and funding of equity accounted investments 204 234 217 Other investing activities 52 563 239 Net investing cash flows from Continuing operations 5,060 3,724 6,018 Net investing cash flows from Discontinued operations 861 437 1,227 Net investing cash flows 5,921 4,161 7,245 Net repayment of proceeds from interest bearing liabilities 3,878 5,501 4,614 Dividends paid 5,220 2,921 4,130 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 1,582 575 62 Other financing activities 171 108 106 Net financing cash flows from Continuing operations 10,851 9,105 316 Net financing cash flows from Discontinued operations 40 28 32 Net financing cash flows 10,891 9,133 284 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,649 3,510 3,664 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from Continuing operations 1,650 3,047 4,138 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents from Discontinued operations 1 463 474 Net operating cash inflows of US$18.5 billion increased by US$1.7 billion.
This increase reflects higher commodity prices and a strong operating performance.
This was partially offset by higher net taxation paid as a result of higher profits in the current year and a final corporate income tax payment in Australia of US$1.3 billion related to the prior year.
Net investing cash outflows of US$5.9 billion increased by US$1.8 billion.
The increase reflects continued investment in high-return latent capacity projects, higher Onshore US drilling activity and an increase in spend post the approval of Mad Dog Phase 2 and the Spence Growth Option projects in FY2017.
For additional information and a breakdown of capital and exploration expenditure on a commodity basis, refer to section 1.12.
Net financing cash outflows of US$10.9 billion increased by US$1.8 billion.
This reflects higher dividends to BHP shareholders of US$2.3 billion and higher dividends to non-controlling interests of US$1.0 billion partially offset by lower repayments of interest bearing liabilities of US$1.6 billion.
For additional information, refer to section 1.11.3 and note 18 Net debt in section 5.
BHP Annual Report 2018 73 1.11.3 Debt and sources of liquidity Our policies on debt and liquidity management have the The following US bonds were partially repurchased: following objectives: US$860 million senior notes due 2022: a strong balance sheet through the cycle: US$1,500 million senior notes due 2023. diversification of funding sources: The following EUR and GBP bonds were partially repurchased: maintain borrowings and excess cash predominantly in US dollars.
600 million senior notes due 2020: Interest bearing liabilities, net debt and gearing 1,250 million senior notes due 2020: At the end of FY2018, Interest bearing liabilities were US$26.8 billion 650 million senior notes due 2022: FY2017: US$30.5 billion and Cash and cash equivalents were 750 million senior notes due 2024: 1 US$15.9 billion FY2017: US$14.2 billion.
This resulted in net debt 750 million senior notes due 2024. of US$10.9 billion, which represented a decrease of US$5.4 billion The decision not to refinance maturing Group debt and the bond compared with the net debt position at 30 June 2017.
Gearing, repurchase program contributed to a US$3.7 billion overall decrease which is the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets, was in interest bearing liabilities in FY2018.
At the subsidiary level, Escondida issued US$0.5 billion of new long-term debt to fund capital expenditure associated During FY2018, the Group continued its bias towards debt with key projects.
This included the decision not to refinance A$1.0 billion of Group-level debt which matured in FY2018 and the execution Funding sources of a US$2.9 billion bond repurchase program.
In late September No new Group-level debt was issued in FY2018 and debt that 2017, BHP concluded this bond repurchase program, which was matured during the year was not refinanced.
funded by BHPs strong cash position and targeted short-dated Our Group-level borrowing facilities are not subject to financial bonds maturing before FY2024.
The early repayment of the bonds has extended BHPs average debt maturity profile and enhanced covenants.
Certain specific financing facilities in relation to specific assets are the subject of financial covenants that vary from facility BHPs capital structure.
to facility, but this would be considered normal for such facilities.
In addition to the Groups uncommitted debt issuance programs, we hold the following committed standby facilities: Facility available Drawn Undrawn Facility available Drawn Undrawn 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M 2 Revolving credit facility 6,000 6,000 6,000 6,000 Total financing facilities 6,000 6,000 6,000 6,000 1 We use alternative performance measures to reflect the underlying performance of BHP.
For the definition and method of calculation of alternative performance measures, refer to section 1.11.5.
For the composition of net debt, refer to note 18 Net debt in section 5.
2 BHPs committed US$6.0 billion revolving credit facility operates as a back-stop to the Companys uncommitted commercial paper program.
The combined amount drawn under the facility or as commercial paper will not exceed US$6.0 billion.
As at 30 June 2018, US$ nil commercial paper was drawn FY2017: US$ nil, therefore US$6.0 billion of committed facility was available to use FY2017: US$6.0 billion.
The revolving credit facility expires on 7 May 2021.
A commitment fee is payable on the undrawn balance and an interest rate comprising an interbank rate plus a margin applies to any drawn balance.
The agreed margins are typical for a credit facility extended to a company with BHPs credit rating.
For more information regarding the maturity profile of our debt obligations and details of our standby and support agreements, refer to note 20 Financial risk management in section 5.
In BHPs opinion, working capital is sufficient for BHPs present requirements.
BHPs credit ratings are currently A3 P-2 outlook positive Moodys long-term short-term and A A-1 outlook stable Standard & Poors long-term short-term.
A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to suspension, reduction or withdrawal at any time by an assigning rating agency.
Any rating should be evaluated independently of any other information.
The following table expands on the net debt, to provide more information on the cash and non-cash movements in FY2018.
2018 2017 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M Net debt at the beginning of the financial year 16,321 26,102 Net operating cash flows 18,461 16,804 Net investing cash flows 5,921 4,161 Free cash flow 12,540 12,643 Carrying value of interest bearing liability repayments 3,573 5,385 Net settlements of interest bearing liabilities and debt related instruments 3,878 5,501 Dividends paid 5,220 2,921 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 1,582 575 1 Other financing activities 211 136 Other cash movements 7,318 3,748 2 Interest rate movements 353 1,337 3 Foreign exchange impacts on debt 245 149 3 Foreign exchange impacts on cash 56 322 Finance lease obligation contracted during the period 593 Others 1 31 Non-cash movements 165 886 Net debt at the end of the financial year 10,934 16,321 1 Other financing activities mainly comprises purchases of shares by Employee Share Option Plan trusts of US$171 million FY2017: US$108 million.
2 Interest rate movements reflect the movement in the mark to market fair value adjustment of corporate bond floating interest rates.
3 Foreign exchange impacts reflect the revaluation of local currency debt and cash to US dollars the Groups functional currency.
The Group hedges against the volatility in both exchange and interest rates on debt, with associated movements in derivatives reported in Other financial assets liabilities as effective hedged derivatives cross currency and interest rate swaps, in accordance with accounting standards.
Refer to note 20 Financial risk management in section 5.
74 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.11.4 Alternative performance measures 1 We use various alternative performance measures to reflect our Underlying EBITDA is the key alternative performance measure underlying performance.
Our two primary measures of performance that management uses internally to assess the performance are Underlying attributable profit and Underlying EBITDA.
These of the Groups segments and make decisions on the allocation measures, and other alternative performance measures, are of resources.
In the Groups view this is more relevant to capital reconciled below and defined in section 1.11.5. intensive industries with long-life assets.
We believe these alternative performance measures provide useful Underlying EBITDA and Underlying EBIT are included in the information, but should not be considered as an indication of, FY2018 Consolidated Financial Statements, as required by IFRS 8 or as a substitute for, Attributable profit loss and other statutory Operating Segments.
measures as an indicator of actual operating performance or as Reconciling alternative performance measures an alternative to cash flow as a measure of liquidity.
The following tables provide reconciliations between the alternative We consider Underlying attributable profit to be a key measure that performance measure and the respective IFRS measure.
Section provides insight on the amount of profit available for distribution to 1.11.5 outlines the definition and calculation methodology of our shareholders, which aligns to our purpose as outlined in Our Charter.
Underlying attributable profit is also the key performance indicator against which short-term incentive outcomes for our senior executives are measured and, in our view, is a relevant measure to assess the financial performance of the Group for this purpose.
Group and unallocated Year ended 30 June 2018 items 3 US$M Petroleum Copper Iron Ore Coal eliminations BHP Group Continuing operations Revenue 5,408 13,287 14,810 8,889 1,244 43,638 1 Revenue Group production 5,396 11,860 14,756 8,887 1,225 42,124 1 Revenue Third party products 12 1,427 54 2 19 1,514 Other income 52 10 139 41 5 247 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1,719 1,920 1,721 686 242 6,288 Net impairments 76 213 14 29 1 333 Third party commodity purchases 11 1,367 53 3 18 1,452 All other operating expenses 2,104 5,875 5,996 4,722 1,266 19,963 Non-exceptional items 2,104 5,875 5,966 4,722 1,239 19,906 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 30 27 57 Expenses excluding net finance costs 3,910 9,375 7,784 5,440 1,527 28,036 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 4 467 509 192 1 147 Non-exceptional items 4 467 192 1 656 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 509 509 Subtotal 1,546 4,389 6,656 3,682 277 15,996 Net finance costs 1,245 Non-exceptional items 1,161 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 84 Profit before taxation 14,751 Total taxation expense 7,007 Non-exceptional items 4,687 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 2,320 Profit after taxation from Continuing operations 7,744 Discontinued operations Loss after taxation from Discontinued operations 2,921 Profit after taxation from Continuing and Discontinued operations 4,823 Attributable to non-controlling interests 1,118 Attributable to BHP shareholders 3,705 Reconciliation to Underlying attributable profit, Underlying EBITDA and Underlying EBIT Exceptional items Continuing operations 539 27 2,404 2,970 Exceptional items Discontinued operations 2,258 Subtotal: Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 5,228 Profit after taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 1,118 2 Underlying attributable profit 8,933 Profit after taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 1,118 Loss after taxation from Discontinued operations 2,921 Exceptional items Discontinued operations 2,258 Taxation expense from non-exceptional items 4,687 Net finance costs from non-exceptional items 1,161 BHP Annual Report 2018 75 1.11.4 Alternative performance measures continued Group and unallocated Year ended 30 June 2018 items 3 US$M Petroleum Copper Iron Ore Coal eliminations BHP Group Underlying EBIT 16,562 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments excluding exceptional items 1,795 2,133 1,735 715 243 6,621 2 Underlying EBITDA 3,341 6,522 8,930 4,397 7 23,183 1 Underlying EBITDA Group production 3,340 6,462 8,929 4,398 8 23,121 1 Underlying EBITDA Third party products 1 60 1 1 1 62 Basic and Underlying basic earnings per share 2 Underlying attributable profit US$M 8,933 Weighted basic average number of shares Million 5,323 Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share US cents 167.8 Adjusted for: Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders per share 98.2 Basic earnings per ordinary share US cents 69.6 Segment contribution to Underlying EBITDA 4 Segment contribution to the Groups Underlying EBITDA 14% 28% 39% 19% 100% Margin calculation Underlying EBITDA margin Group production 62% 54% 61% 49% 55% Underlying EBITDA margin Third party products 8% 4% 2% 4% Profit before Income tax taxation expense benefit Year ended 30 June 2018 US$M US$M % Adjusted effective tax rate reconciliation Statutory effective tax rate 14,751 7,007 47.5 Adjusted for: Exchange rate movements 152 Exceptional items 650 2,320 Adjusted effective tax rate 15,401 4,839 31.4 76 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Group and 1 unallocated Year ended 30 June 2017 items 3 US$M Petroleum Copper Iron Ore Coal elimination BHP Group Continuing operations Revenue 4,722 8,335 14,624 7,578 876 36,135 1 Revenue Group production 4,713 7,232 14,543 7,578 869 34,935 1 Revenue Third party products 9 1,103 81 7 1,200 Other income 191 62 172 192 45 662 Non-exceptional items 191 62 172 23 45 493 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 169 169 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1,648 1,737 1,828 719 252 6,184 Non-exceptional items 1,648 1,525 1,828 719 252 5,972 Exceptional items attributable to non-controlling interests 90 90 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 122 122 Net impairments 102 14 52 20 5 193 Non-exceptional items 102 14 52 15 5 188 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 5 5 Third party commodity purchases 6 1,080 58 7 1,151 All other operating expenses 1,787 4,401 5,692 3,969 1,138 16,987 Non-exceptional items 1,787 4,067 5,661 3,969 1,087 16,571 Exceptional items attributable to non-controlling interests 142 142 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 192 31 51 274 Expenses excluding net finance costs 3,543 7,232 7,630 4,708 1,402 24,515 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 3 295 172 152 272 Non-exceptional items 3 295 152 444 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 172 172 Subtotal 1,367 1,460 6,994 3,214 481 12,554 Net finance costs 1,417 Non-exceptional items 1,290 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 127 Profit before taxation 11,137 Total taxation expense 4,443 Non-exceptional items 4,200 Exceptional items attributable to non-controlling interests 68 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 311 Profit after taxation from Continuing operations 6,694 Discontinued operations Loss after taxation from Discontinued operations 472 Profit after taxation from Continuing and Discontinued operations 6,222 Attributable to non-controlling interests 332 Attributable to BHP shareholders 5,890 Reconciliation to Underlying attributable profit, Underlying EBITDA and Underlying EBIT Exceptional items Continuing operations 546 203 164 51 370 1,006 Exceptional items attributable to non-controlling interests 232 Tax effect of exceptional items attributable to non-controlling interests 68 Subtotal: Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 842 Profit after taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 332 2 Underlying attributable profit 6,732 Profit after taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 332 Loss after taxation from Discontinued operations 472 Exceptional items attributable to non-controlling interests 232 Tax effect of exceptional items attributable to non-controlling interests 68 Taxation expense from non-exceptional items 4,200 Net finance costs from non-exceptional items 1,290 Underlying EBIT 13,190 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments excluding exceptional items 1,750 1,539 1,880 734 257 6,160 2 Underlying EBITDA 3,117 3,545 9,077 3,784 173 19,350 1 Underlying EBITDA Group production 3,114 3,522 9,054 3,784 173 19,301 1 Underlying EBITDA Third party products 323 23 49 BHP Annual Report 2018 77 1.11.4 Alternative performance measures continued Group and unallocated Year ended 30 June 2017 items 3 US$M Petroleum Copper Iron Ore Coal elimination BHP Group Basic and Underlying basic earnings per share 2 Underlying attributable profit US$M 6,732 Weighted basic average number of shares Million 5,323 Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share US cents 126.5 Adjusted for: Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders per share 15.8 Basic earnings per ordinary share US cents 110.7 Segment contribution to Underlying EBITDA 4 Segment contribution to the Groups Underlying EBITDA 16% 18% 47% 19% 100% Margin calculation Underlying EBITDA margin Group production 66% 49% 62% 50% 55% Underlying EBITDA margin Third party products 33% 2% 28% 4% Profit before Income tax taxation expense benefit Year ended 30 June 2017 US$M US$M % Adjusted effective tax rate reconciliation Statutory effective tax rate 11,137 4,443 39.9 Adjusted for: Exchange rate movements 88 Exceptional items 763 243 Adjusted effective tax rate 11,900 4,112 34.6 78 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Group and 1 unallocated Year ended 30 June 2016 items 3 US$M Petroleum Copper Iron Ore Coal elimination BHP Group Continuing operations Revenue 4,549 8,249 10,538 4,518 713 28,567 1 Revenue Group production 4,452 7,411 10,454 4,512 701 27,530 1 Revenue Third party products 97 838 84 6 12 1,037 Other income 435 87 256 48 394 432 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1,696 1,560 1,817 890 247 6,210 Net impairments 24 17 42 94 9 186 Third party commodity purchases 92 792 92 6 12 994 All other operating expenses 1,847 5,080 5,247 3,916 611 16,701 Non-exceptional items 1,847 5,080 5,239 3,916 479 16,561 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 8 132 140 Expenses excluding net finance costs 3,659 7,449 7,198 4,906 879 24,091 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 7 155 2,244 9 1 2,104 Non-exceptional items 7 155 136 9 1 276 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 2,380 2,380 Subtotal 1,318 1,042 1,352 349 559 2,804 Net finance costs 1,013 Profit before taxation 1,791 Total taxation expense 2,103 Non-exceptional items 1,856 Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 247 Loss after taxation from Continued operations 312 Discontinued operations Loss after taxation from Discontinued operations 5,895 Loss after taxation from Continuing and Discontinued operations 6,207 Attributable to non-controlling interests 178 Attributable to BHP shareholders 6,385 Reconciliation to Underlying attributable profit, Underlying EBITDA and Underlying EBIT Exceptional items Continuing operations 2,388 132 247 2,767 Exceptional items Discontinued operations 4,884 Exceptional items Discontinued operations attributable to non-controlling interests 51 Subtotal: Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders 7,600 Profit after taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 178 2 Underlying attributable profit 1,215 Profit after taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 178 Loss after taxation from Discontinued operations 5,895 Exceptional items Discontinued operations 4,884 Exceptional items Discontinued operations attributable to non-controlling interests 51 Taxation expense from non-exceptional items 1,856 Net finance costs from non-exceptional items 1,013 Underlying EBIT 5,324 Add: Depreciation, amortisation and impairments excluding exceptional items 1,720 1,577 1,859 984 256 6,396 2 Underlying EBITDA 3,038 2,619 5,599 635 171 11,720 1 Underlying EBITDA Group production 3,033 2,573 5,607 635 171 11,677 1 Underlying EBITDA Third party products 5 46 8 43 BHP Annual Report 2018 79 1.11.4 Alternative performance measures continued Group and unallocated Year ended 30 June 2016 items 3 US$M Petroleum Copper Iron Ore Coal elimination BHP Group Basic and Underlying basic earnings per share 2 Underlying attributable profit US$M 1,215 Weighted basic average number of shares Million 5,322 Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share US cents 22.8 Adjusted for: Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders per share 142.8 Basic earnings loss per ordinary share US cents 120.0 Segment contribution to Underlying EBITDA 4 Segment contribution to the Groups Underlying EBITDA 26% 22% 47% 5% 100% Margin calculation Underlying EBITDA margin Group production 68% 35% 54% 14% 42% Underlying EBITDA margin Third party products 5% 5% 10 % 4% Profit before Income tax taxation expense benefit Year ended 30 June 2016 US$M US$M % Adjusted effective tax rate reconciliation Statutory effective tax rate 1,791 2,103 Adjusted for: Exchange rate movements 125 Exceptional items 2,520 247 Adjusted effective tax rate 4,311 1,731 40.2 1 We differentiate sales of our production from sales of third party products to better measure the operational profitability of our operations as a percentage of revenue.
These tables show the breakdown between our production and third party products, which is necessary for the calculation of the Underlying EBITDA margin and margin on third party products.
We engage in third party trading for the following reasons: Production variability and occasional shortfalls from our assets means that we sometimes source third party materials to ensure a steady supply of product to our customers.
To optimise our supply chain outcomes, we may buy physical product from third parties.
To support the development of liquid markets, we will sometimes source third party physical product and manage risk through both the physical and financial markets.
2 We exclude exceptional items from Underlying attributable profit and Underlying EBITDA in order to enhance the comparability of such measures from period-to-period and provide our investors with further clarity in order to assess the underlying performance of our operations.
Management monitors exceptional items separately.
Additional information can be found in note 2 Exceptional items, note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure and note 26 Discontinued operations in section 5.
3 Group and unallocated items includes functions and other unallocated operations, including Potash and Nickel West and consolidation adjustments.
Revenue not attributable to reportable segments comprises the sale of freight and fuel to third parties.
Exploration and technology activities are recognised within relevant segments.
4 Percentage contribution to Group Underlying EBITDA, excluding Group and unallocated items.
Other income Depreciation, and expenses amortisation and Year ended 30 June 2018 excluding net Exceptional impairments excluding Underlying US$M Revenue finance costs items exceptional items EBITDA Potash 139 4 135 Nickel West 1,300 1,085 76 291 Corporate and eliminations 56 297 27 163 163 Total 1,244 1,521 27 243 7 Other income Depreciation, and expenses amortisation and Year ended 30 June 2017 excluding net Exceptional impairments excluding Underlying US$M Revenue finance costs items exceptional items EBITDA Potash 118 10 108 Nickel West 952 995 87 44 Corporate and eliminations 76 244 51 160 109 Total 876 1,357 51 257 173 Other income Depreciation, and expenses amortisation and Year ended 30 June 2016 excluding net Exceptional impairments excluding Underlying US$M Revenue finance costs items exceptional items EBITDA Potash 155 6 149 Nickel West 819 1,009 76 114 Corporate and eliminations 106 108 132 174 92 Total 713 1,272 132 256 171 80 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Net operating assets 1 The following table reconciles Net operating assets for the Group to Net assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet: 2018 2017 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M Net operating assets Petroleum 8,052 9,011 Copper 23,679 24,100 Iron Ore 18,320 19,175 Coal 9,853 10,136 1 Group and unallocated items 2,789 2,446 Total 62,693 64,868 Reconciled to Net assets 2 Onshore US 14,170 Cash and cash equivalents 15,871 14,153 3 Trade and other receivables 36 665 4 Other financial assets 974 980 Current tax assets 106 195 Deferred tax assets 4,041 5,788 2 Assets held for sale 11,939 5 Trade and other payables 363 390 Interest bearing liabilities 26,805 30,474 6 Other financial liabilities 1,218 1,345 Current tax payable 1,773 2,119 Non-current tax payable 137 Deferred tax liabilities 3,472 3,765 2 Liabilities held for sale 1,222 Net assets 60,670 62,726 1 Group and unallocated items includes functions and other unallocated operations including Potash and Nickel West and consolidation adjustments.
2 Represents Onshore US assets and liabilities treated as held for sale.
3 Represents loans to associates of US$13 million FY2017: US$644 million and accrued interest receivable of US$23 million FY2017: US$21 million included within other receivables.
4 Represents cross currency and interest rate swaps, forward exchange contracts of US$140 million FY2017: US$ nil and available for sale shares and other investments refer to note 20 Financial risk management in section 5 included in other financial assets.
5 Represents accrued interest payable included within other payables.
6 Represents cross currency and interest rate swaps refer to note 20 Financial risk management in section 5 included in other financial liabilities.
Free cash flow The following table reconciles Free cash flow to Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents: 2018 2017 2016 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Net operating cash flows 18,461 16,804 10,625 Net investing cash flows 5,921 4,161 7,245 Free cash flow 12,540 12,643 3,380 Net financing cash flows 10,891 9,133 284 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,649 3,510 3,664 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from Continuing operations 1,650 3,047 4,138 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents from Discontinued operations 1 463 474 1.11.5 Definition and calculation of alternative performance measures Our primary alternative performance measures are defined and calculated as follows: Alternative performance measure Method of calculation Underlying attributable profit Profit loss after taxation attributable to BHP shareholders excluding any exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders as described in note 2 Exceptional items in section 5.
Underlying EBITDA Earnings before net finance costs, depreciation, amortisation and impairments, taxation expense, Discontinued operations and exceptional items.
Underlying EBITDA includes BHPs share of profit loss from investments accounted for using the equity method, including net finance costs, depreciation, amortisation and impairments and taxation expense benefit.
Underlying EBIT Underlying EBITDA, including depreciation, amortisation and impairments.
Further alternative performance measures are defined and calculated as follows: Adjusted effective tax rate Total taxation expense benefit, excluding exceptional items and exchange rate movements included in taxation expense benefit divided by profit loss before taxation and exceptional items.
Management believes this measure provides useful information regarding the tax impacts from underlying operations.
Exceptional items attributable Exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders divided by the weighted basic average number to BHP shareholders per share of shares.
1 Free cash flow Net operating cash flows less Net investing cash flows.
1 Gearing ratio Ratio of Net debt to Net debt plus Net assets.
BHP Annual Report 2018 81 1.11.5 Definition and calculation of alternative performance measures continued Alternative performance measure Method of calculation Margin on third party products Underlying EBITDA from third party products divided by third party product revenue.
1 Net debt Interest bearing liabilities less Cash and cash equivalents for the total operations within the Group at the reporting date.
Net operating assets Operating assets net of operating liabilities, including the carrying value of equity accounted investments and predominantly excludes cash balances, loans to associates, interest bearing liabilities and deferred tax balances.
The carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity accounted method represents the balance of the Groups investment in equity accounted investments, with no adjustment for any cash balances, interest bearing liabilities and deferred tax balances of the equity accounted investment.
Management believes this measure provides useful information by isolating the net operating assets of the business from the financing and tax balances which, in combination with our other measures, provides a meaningful indicator of underlying performance.
Segment contribution to the Segment Underlying EBITDA divided by the Groups Underlying EBITDA excluding Group and Groups Underlying EBITDA unallocated items.
Underlying basic earnings per share Underlying attributable profit divided by the weighted average number of basic shares.
Underlying EBITDA margin Underlying EBITDA, excluding third party product Underlying EBITDA, divided by revenue excluding third party product revenue.
1 Calculation is performed with reference to IFRS measures.
1.11.6 Definition and calculation of principal factors The method of calculation of the principal factors that affect Revenue, Profit from operations and Underlying EBITDA is as follows: Principal factor Method of calculation Change in sales prices Change in average realised price for each operation from the corresponding period to the current period, multiplied by current period volumes.
Price-linked costs Change in price-linked costs for each operation from the corresponding period to the current period, multiplied by current period volumes.
Productivity volumes Change in volumes for each operation not included in the Growth category from the corresponding period to the current period, multiplied by the prior year Underlying EBITDA margin.
Growth volumes Volume Growth comprises Underlying EBITDA for operations that are new or acquired in the current period minus Underlying EBITDA for operations that are new or acquired in the corresponding period, change in volumes for operations identified as a Growth project from the corresponding period to the current period multiplied by the prior year Underlying EBITDA margin, and change in volume for our petroleum assets from the corresponding period to the current period multiplied by the prior year Underlying EBITDA margin.
Controllable cash costs Operating cash costs and exploration and business development costs.
Management believes this measure provides useful information regarding the Groups financial performance because it considers these expenses to be the principal operating and overhead expenses that are most directly under the Groups control.
Operating cash costs Change in total costs, other than price-linked costs, exchange rates, inflation on costs, fuel and energy costs, non-cash costs and one-off items as defined below for each operation from the corresponding period to the current period.
Exploration and business Exploration and business development expense in the current period minus exploration and development business development expense in the corresponding period.
Exchange rates Change in exchange rate multiplied by current period local currency revenue and expenses.
The majority of the Groups selling prices are denominated in US dollars and so there is little impact of exchange rate changes on Revenue.
Inflation on costs Change in inflation rate applied to expenses, other than depreciation and amortisation, price-linked costs, exploration and business development expenses, expenses in ceased and sold operations and expenses in new and acquired operations.
Fuel and energy Fuel and energy expense in the current period minus fuel and energy expense in the corresponding period.
Non-cash Includes non-cash items mainly depletion of stripping capitalised.
One-off items Change in costs exceeding a pre-determined threshold associated with an unexpected event that had not occurred in the last two years and is not reasonably likely to occur within the next two years.
Asset sales Profit loss on the sale of assets or operations in the current period minus profit loss on sale in the corresponding period.
Ceased and sold operations Underlying EBITDA for operations that ceased or were sold in the current period minus Underlying EBITDA for operations that ceased or were sold in the corresponding period.
Share of operating profit from Share of operating profit from equity accounted investments for the period minus share equity accounted investments of operating profit from equity accounted investments in the corresponding period.
Other Variances not explained by the above factors.
82 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.12 Performance by commodity 1 Management believes the following financial information presented by commodity provides a meaningful indication of the underlying performance of the assets, including equity accounted investments, of each reportable segment.
Information relating to assets that are accounted for as equity accounted investments are shown to reflect BHPs share, unless otherwise noted, to provide insight into the drivers of these assets.
For the purposes of this financial information, segments are reported on a statutory basis in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The tables for each commodity include an adjustment for equity accounted investments to reconcile the equity accounted results to the statutory segment results.
For a reconciliation of alternative performance measures to their respective IFRS measure and an explanation as to the use of Underlying EBITDA and Underlying EBIT in assessing our performance refer to section 1.11.4.
For the definition and method of calculation of alternative performance measures refer to section 1.11.5.
For more information as to the statutory determination of our reportable segments refer to note 1 Segment reporting in section 5.
Unit costs is one of the financial measures used to monitor the performance of our individual assets and is included in the analysis of each reportable segment.
1.12.1 Petroleum Detailed below is financial information for our Petroleum assets excluding Onshore US for FY2018 and FY2017 and an analysis of Petroleums financial performance for FY2018 compared with FY2017.
2 Includes US$193 million of capitalised exploration FY2017: US$332 million.
3 Includes US$76 million of exploration expenditure previously capitalised, written off as impaired included in depreciation and amortisation FY2017: US$102 million.
4 Australia Production Unit includes Macedon, Pyrenees and Minerva.
5 Predominantly divisional activities, business development, UK, Neptune and Genesis.
Also includes the Caesar oil pipeline and the Cleopatra gas pipeline, which are equity accounted investments.
The financial information for the Caesar oil pipeline and the Cleopatra gas pipeline presented above, with the exception of net operating assets, reflects BHPs share.
6 Comprises closed mining and smelting operations in Canada and the United States.
Petroleum manages the closed mines due to their geographic location.
7 Total Petroleum statutory result Revenue excludes US$16 million FY2017: US$17 million revenue related to the Caesar oil pipeline and the Cleopatra gas pipeline.
Total Petroleum statutory result Underlying EBITDA includes US$3 million FY2017: US$3 million D&A related to the Caesar oil pipeline and the Cleopatra gas pipeline.
8 Refer to section 1.11.4 for a reconciliation of Net operating assets to Net assets and section 1.11.5 for the definition and method of calculation of Net operating assets.
BHP Annual Report 2018 83 1.12.1 Petroleum continued Key drivers of conventional petroleums financial results Conventional petroleum unit costs increased by 16 per cent to US$10.06 per barrel of oil equivalent due to the impact of lower Price overview volumes.
The calculation of conventional petroleum unit costs Overall, oil and gas prices have performed favourably in FY2018.
is set out in the table below.
Petroleum commodities were supported by OPEC-led output cuts for crude oil and stronger demand.
Asian liquefied natural gas 1 Conventional petroleum unit costs LNG also saw stronger demand.
US$M FY2018 FY2017 Trends in each of the major markets are outlined below.
Revenue 5,408 4,722 Underlying EBITDA 3,393 3,133 Crude oil Gross costs 2,015 1,589 Our average realised sales price for crude oil was US$60.57 per 2 barrel FY2017: US$47.48 per barrel.
Crude oil prices trended Less: exploration expense 516 471 higher during FY2018.
High compliance to agreed production cuts Less: freight 152 140 by OPEC members and non-OPEC participants the Vienna Group Less: development and evaluation 34 22 3 Less: other 106 151 and strong demand growth both contributed to a substantial reduction in the inventory overhang.
The tighter market and rising Net costs 1,207 1,107 geopolitical tensions out-weighed rising US production to push Production MMboe, equity share 120 128 prices to multi-year highs.
A roughly balanced market is expected 4 5 Cost per Boe US$ 10.06 8.65 in CY2018.
The long-term outlook remains positive, underpinned by rising demand from the developing world and natural field decline 1 Conventional petroleum assets exclude divisional activities reported in Other on the supply side.
and closed mining and smelting operations in Canada and the United States.
2 Exploration expense represents conventional petroleums share of total Liquefied natural gas exploration expense.
Our average realised sales price for LNG was US$8.07 per Mscf 3 Other includes non-cash profit on sales of assets, inventory movements, foreign exchange and the impact from the revaluation of embedded derivatives in the FY2017: US$6.84 per Mscf.
Overall, the Japan-Korea Marker JKM Trinidad and Tobago gas contract.
price for LNG was higher on average compared to the previous 4 FY2017 restated to exclude development and evaluation as these costs do not represent our cost performance in relation to current production.
Prices hit a three-year high in January on firm winter 5 FY2018 based on an exchange rate of AUD USD 0.78. demand from end users in North Asia, particularly China where imports surged 47 per cent year-on-year.
On the supply side, Delivery commitments slippage in the start date of new projects along with unplanned We have delivery commitments of natural gas and LNG in outages also contributed to the tighter market throughout the conventional petroleum of approximately 1,873 billion cubic feet north Asian winter.
We forecast a relatively tight market heading through FY2031 56 per cent Australia and Asia, 44 per cent into winter: however, a further lift in new supply is likely to weigh Trinidad.
We have crude and condensate delivery commitments on the market in CY2019.
Longer term, the outlook for LNG remains of around 10.5 million barrels through FY2019 48 per cent United positive, underpinned by rising energy demand from emerging States, 38 per cent Australia and Asia and 14 per cent others economies and the need for low-emission and flexible fuels to and LPG commitments of 271,974 metric tonnes through FY2019.
Depleting indigenous gas We have sufficient proved reserves and production capacity supplies will also increase the dependence of some major to fulfil these delivery commitments.
consumers on the export market.
We have obligations for contracted capacity on transportation Production pipelines and gathering systems, on which we are the shipper.
In Total conventional petroleum production for FY2018 decreased FY2019, volume commitments to gather and transport are 15 million by six per cent to 120 MMboe as a result of Hurricane Harvey barrels of oil and 24 million cubic feet of gas.
The agreements with and Hurricane Nate in the Gulf of Mexico, along with natural field the gas gatherers and transporters have annual escalation clauses.
Other information For more information on individual asset production in FY2018, Drilling FY2017 and FY2016, refer to section 6.2.
The number of wells in the process of drilling and or completion Financial results as of 30 June 2018 was as follows: Overall, conventional petroleum revenue for FY2018 increased by US$686 million to US$5.4 billion.
Gulf of Mexico, which includes Exploratory wells Development wells Total Atlantis, Shenzi and Mad Dog, increased by US$250 million 1 1 1 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net to US$1.6 billion.
In Australia, Bass Strait and North West Shelf collectively increased by US$399 million to US$2.7 billion and Australia 8 1 8 1 2 the Australian Production Unit, which includes Macedon, Pyrenees United States 1 1 74 44 75 45 Other 1 1 1 1 and Minerva, decreased by US$33 million to US$568 million.
Total 2 2 82 45 84 47 Underlying EBITDA for Petroleum increased by US$224 million to US$3.3 billion.
Price impacts, net of price-linked costs, increased 1 Represents our share of the gross well count.
Underlying EBITDA by US$975 million.
During the period, Underlying 2 Includes 74 net: 44 development wells attributable to Discontinued operations of Onshore US.
EBITDA decreased by US$256 million due to the impact of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Nate on US assets and natural field decline.
Controllable cash costs increased by US$64 million reflecting higher exploration expenses, due to expensing the Scimitar well including sidetrack and increased planning activities in Mexico, partially offset by the impact of wells expensed in the prior year, coupled with US$100 million unfavourable fixed cost dilution from declining volumes.
Profit on sale of assets decreased by US$142 million reflecting the sale of 50 per cent of BHPs interest in the undeveloped Scarborough area gas fields in FY2017.
Revaluation of embedded derivatives at Trinidad also negatively impacted Underlying EBITDA by US$117 million.
84 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Conventional petroleum Conventional petroleum exploration and appraisal 1 BHPs net share of capital development expenditure in FY2018, The majority of the expenditure incurred in FY2018 was in our which is presented on a cash basis within this section, was focus areas including Gulf of Mexico US and Mexico and Trinidad US$656 million FY2017: US$917 million.
While the majority and Tobago.
We also incurred expenditure in Western Australia of the expenditure in FY2018 was incurred by operating partners and Brazil.
at our Australian and Gulf of Mexico non-operated assets, Access we also incurred capital expenditure at our operated Australian, We acquired acreage in the US sector of the Gulf of Mexico during Gulf of Mexico, Algeria and Trinidad and Tobago assets.
We were awarded three blocks from Lease sale 250 held Australia in March 2018 at 100 per cent interest, EB 914 and EB 699 in the BHPs net share of capital development expenditure in FY2018, western Gulf of Mexico and GC 823 to the west of the Mad Dog which is presented on a cash basis within this section, was field, which we co-own with BP and Chevron.
In addition, we US$196 million.
The expenditure was primarily related to: acquired a 50 per cent interest in the Murphy operated Samurai North West Shelf: GWF-2 subsea tie back well development, prospect in GC 432 and GC 476.
Karratha Gas Plant refurbishment projects and external Exploration program expenditure details corrosion compliance.
Our gross expenditure on exploration was US$709 million Bass Strait: Snapper A21a offshore wellwork and MLB450 in FY2018, of which US$516 million was expensed.
pipeline installation along with rationalisation of crude processing facility onshore.
Gulf of Mexico BHPs net share of capital development expenditure in FY2018, which is presented on a cash basis within this section, was US$380 million.
The expenditure was primarily related to: Atlantis: execution of development activity on two wells.
Mad Dog: execution phase of Phase 2 development, including three wells, with additional development activity on one well at Spar A.
Exploration and appraisal wells drilled, or in the process of drilling, during the year included: Well Location Target BHP equity Spud date Water depth Total well depth Status Wildling-2 US Gulf of Mexico Oil 100% 15 April 2017 1,267m 10,205m Hydrocarbons encountered, GC520 BHP Operator temporarily abandoned Wildling-2 US Gulf of Mexico Oil 100% 11 August 2017 1,267m 10,177m Hydrocarbons encountered, ST01 GC520 BHP Operator temporarily abandoned Scimitar US Gulf of Mexico Oil 65% 1 October 2017 1,289m 9,836m Plugged and abandoned GC392 BHP Operator Scimitar-ST US Gulf of Mexico Oil 85% 23 January 2018 1,289m 8,246m Plugged and abandoned GC392 BHP Operator Samurai-2 US Gulf of Mexico Oil 50% 16 April 2018 1,088m 8,615m Hydrocarbons encountered, GC 432 Murphy Operator drilling ahead Victoria-1 Trinidad & Tobago Gas 65% 12 June 2018 1,828m 2,545m Hydrocarbons encountered, Block 5 BHP Operator drilling ahead In the US Gulf of Mexico, we completed drilling the Wildling-2 well, In Trinidad and Tobago, following the gas discovery at LeClerc, which encountered oil in multiple horizons.
A sidetrack was drilled we commenced Phase 2 of our deepwater exploration drilling to further appraise the extent of the discovery and also encountered campaign to further assess the commercial potential of the oil in multiple horizons.
Both the Wildling-2 well and sidetrack were Magellan play.
The Victoria-1 exploration well was spud on temporarily abandoned.
In the northern extension of the Wildling 12 June 2018 and encountered gas.
The well was plugged and mini basin, the Murphy operated Samurai-2 exploration well was abandoned on 18 July 2018.
We plan to drill the Concepcion spud on 16 April 2018 and encountered hydrocarbons in multiple prospect to further test the Magellan play in the 2019 financial year.
horizons not previously observed by the Wildling-2 exploration Following completion of the Victoria-1 well, the Deepwater Invictus well.
Evaluation is ongoing to assess the scale of the discoveries has been mobilised to the Bongos prospect in our Northern licence in the Wildling mini basin with plans to continue drilling in the area in Trinidad and Tobago.
The Bongos-1 exploration well was second half of FY2019.
The Scimitar well, to the north of the spud on 20 July 2018 and experienced mechanical difficulty shortly Neptune field, was spud on 1 October 2017 and a subsequent after spud.
The Bongos-2 exploration well was spud on 22 July 2018 sidetrack was spud on 23 January 2018.
No hydrocarbons were and encountered hydrocarbons.
encountered and the well was plugged and abandoned.
In Mexico, planning continues for the exploration and appraisal Seismic data acquisition and reprocessing were completed wells at Trion.
We expect to begin drilling of the next appraisal in order to evaluate prospects in the US and Mexico.
In Western Australia, processed 3D seismic data for the Exmouth sub-basin will be delivered during the September 2018 quarter and will inform the prospectivity in this area.
In Brazil, we formally relinquished our two blocks in the deepwater Foz do Amazonas Basin during the period, prior to the commencement of Exploration Period 2 two well commitment.
BHP Annual Report 2018 85 1.12.1 Petroleum continued Outlook Onshore US: Discontinued operations In our conventional business, volumes are expected to be between Onshore US delivered a strong operating performance in FY2018, 113 and 118 MMboe in FY2019 as a result of additional downtime with total production of 72 MMboe, exceeding our full year from planned dry dock maintenance at Pyrenees and natural field guidance of between 61 and 67 MMboe as a result of improved well decline across the portfolio.
performance from larger completions and longer laterals.
Drilling and development expenditure for FY2018 was US$0.9 billion, a Conventional unit costs for FY2019 are expected to be under reduction of US$0.2 billion relative to guidance reflecting better US$11 per barrel, reflecting the impact of lower volumes, partially well performance, and lower drilling and completions activity which offset by productivity improvements.
was tailored to support value in the exit process.
Conventional petroleum capital expenditure of approximately This strong performance positioned these assets well for US$730 million is planned in FY2019.
Conventional petroleum divestment and on 27 July 2018, BHP announced we had entered capital expenditure for FY2019 includes US$600 million of into agreements for the sale of its entire interests in the Eagle development and US$130 million of maintenance.
Ford, Haynesville, Permian and Fayetteville Onshore US oil and A US$750 million exploration and appraisal program is planned gas assets for a combined base consideration of US$10.8 billion, for FY2019.
payable in cash less customary completion adjustment.
BP America Production Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of BP Plc, has agreed to acquire 100 per cent of the issued share capital of Petrohawk Energy Corporation, the BHP subsidiary that holds the Eagle Ford, Haynesville and Permian assets, for a consideration of US$10.5 billion less customary completion adjustments.
MMGJ Hugoton III, LLC, a company owned by Merit Energy Company, has agreed to acquire 100 per cent of the issued share capital of BHP Billiton Petroleum Arkansas Inc. and 100 per cent of the membership interests in BHP Billiton Petroleum Fayetteville LLC, which hold the Fayetteville assets, for a total consideration of US$0.3 billion less customary completion adjustments.
Both sales are subject to the satisfaction of customary regulatory approvals and conditions precedent.
Until completion of the transactions, expected by the end of October 2018, we intend to operate five rigs in Onshore US and incur capital expenditure at an annualised rate broadly consistent with FY2018.
Onshore US assets have been classified as held for sale and are disclosed as Discontinued operations.
Refer to note 26 Discontinued operations in section 5 for further information.
86 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.12.2 Copper 1 Detailed below is financial information for our Copper assets for FY2018 and FY2017 and an analysis of Coppers financial performance for FY2018 compared with FY2017.
2 Includes Spence and Cerro Colorado.
3 Antamina and Resolution are equity accounted investments and their financial information presented above, with the exception of net operating assets, reflects BHPs share.
4 Predominantly comprises divisional activities, greenfield exploration and business development.
5 Total Copper statutory result Revenue excludes US$1,438 million FY2017: US$1,119 million revenue related to Antamina.
Total Copper statutory result Underlying EBITDA includes US$113 million FY2017: US$116 million D&A and US$299 million FY2017: US$209 million net finance costs and taxation expense related to Antamina and Resolution that are also included in Underlying EBIT.
Copper statutory result Capital expenditure excludes US$183 million FY2017: US$188 million related to Antamina.
6 Refer to section 1.11.4 for a reconciliation of Net operating assets to Net assets and section 1.11.5 for the definition and method of calculation of Net operating assets.
Key drivers of Coppers financial results Production Price overview Total Copper production for FY2018 increased by 32 per cent to 1.8 Mt.
Our average realised sales price for FY2018 was US$3.12 per pound FY2017: US$2.54 per pound.
Copper prices improved in the first Escondida copper production for FY2018 increased by 57 per cent half.
Solid demand conditions, the announcement of a Chinese to 1,213 kt, reflecting a full year of production following the industrial ban of low-grade scrap imports and the expectation of disruptions action in the previous year and supported by the start-up of the related to labour negotiations in Chile and Peru in CY2018 added Los Colorados Extension project on 10 September 2017.
In the second half of FY2018, the relatively Norte copper production increased by four per cent to 264 kt smooth resolution of South American labour negotiations and supported by record production at Spence of 200 kt reflecting trade policy uncertainty resulted in copper prices easing late in the better recoveries and higher utilisation of the solvent extraction half.
In the near term, incremental mine production from committed and electrowinning plants.
Olympic Dam copper production projects and rising scrap availability should continue to meet decreased by 18 per cent to 137 kt as a result of the planned demand needs.
However, in the longer term we expect demand to major smelter maintenance campaign in the first half of FY2018 continue growing steadily, led by a solid performance in traditional and a slower than planned ramp-up.
The operation returned end-use sectors.
Exposure to the electrification megatrend to full capacity during the June 2018 quarter.
Antamina copper provides some upside.
A deficit is expected to emerge early next production increased by four per cent to 140 kt and zinc production decade as grade declines, a rise in costs and a scarcity of highincreased 37 per cent to 120 kt due to higher head grades as quality future development opportunities are likely to constrain mining continued through a zinc-rich ore zone.
the industrys ability to cheaply meet this demand growth.
For more information on individual asset production in FY2018, FY2017 and FY2016, refer to section 6.2.
BHP Annual Report 2018 87 1.12.2 Copper continued Financial results Copper revenue increased by US$5.0 billion to US$13.3 billion projects and expansion plans, a US$126 million planned drawdown in FY2018.
Escondida revenue increased by US$4.2 billion to of mined ore inventory at Escondida ahead of the commissioning US$8.8 billion.
of the Los Colorados Extension project and US$89 million unfavourable fixed cost dilution at Olympic Dam as a result of lower Underlying EBITDA for Copper increased by US$3.0 billion to volumes due to the smelter maintenance campaign.
Price impacts, net of price-linked costs, increased costs, which includes net development stripping, decreased by Underlying EBITDA by US$2.3 billion.
Higher volumes increased US$417 million, reflecting higher capitalised stripping at Escondida Underlying EBITDA by $1.6 billion mainly driven by a full year and Pampa Norte and increased underground mine capitalisation of production at Escondida following the industrial action in the at Olympic Dam as mining expands into the Southern Mine Area.
previous year, supported by the ramp-up of the Los Colorados Extension project and record production at Spence.
Controllable Unit costs at our operated copper assets increased by nine per cent cash costs increased by US$924 million, mainly due to a to US$1.25 per pound and included a 15 per cent increase at US$288 million change in estimated recoverable copper Escondida to US$1.07 per pound.
Unfavourable exchange rate contained in the Escondida sulphide leach pad which benefited movements and general inflation also impacted unit costs in costs in the prior period, a US$176 million increase in labour and FY2018.
The calculation of operated copper assets and Escondida contractor costs at Olympic Dam, to support operating stability unit costs is set out in the table below.
2 FY2018 based on exchange rates of AUD USD 0.78 and USD CLP 625.
Outlook Total Copper production of between 1,675 and 1,770 kt is expected Escondida unit cost guidance for FY2019 is expected to increase in FY2019.
Escondida production of between 1,120 and 1,180 kt is to less than US$1.15 per pound, reflecting the inclusion of costs forecast for FY2019, as higher expected throughput is offset by a to settle labour negotiations.
A decrease in average concentrator significant decrease in average concentrator head grade consistent head grade of more than 15 per cent, consistent with the mine with the mine plan.
The Escondida Water Supply Expansion is in plan, and an increase in the usage of higher cost desalinated water execution phase and will deliver first water production in FY2020.
will be offset by improved labour productivity and maintenance Production at Spence is expected to be between 185 and 200 kt optimisation strategies.
A lower mining cost per tonne of material in FY2019, with volumes weighted to the second half as planned moved is expected as continued improvements in truck runtime, maintenance in May and June 2018 resulted in a lower staking rate.
labour productivity and targeted maintenance supports higher throughput from three concentrators.
88 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.12.3 Iron Ore 1 Detailed below is financial information for our Iron Ore assets for FY2018 and FY2017 and an analysis of Iron Ores financial performance for FY2018 compared with FY2017.
Net Year ended 30 June 2018 Underlying Underlying operating Capital Exploration Exploration 4 US$M Revenue EBITDA D&A EBIT assets expenditure gross to profit Western Australia Iron Ore 14,596 8,869 1,721 7,148 19,406 1,047 1 Samarco 1,278 2 Other 160 60 14 46 192 27 Total Iron Ore from Group production 14,756 8,929 1,735 7,194 18,320 1,074 3 Third party products 54 1 1 Total Iron Ore 14,810 8,930 1,735 7,195 18,320 1,074 84 44 Adjustment for equity accounted investments Total Iron Ore statutory result 14,810 8,930 1,735 7,195 18,320 1,074 84 44 Net Year ended 30 June 2017 Underlying Underlying operating Capital Exploration Exploration 4 US$M Revenue EBITDA D&A EBIT assets expenditure gross to profit Western Australia Iron Ore 14,395 9,001 1,873 7,128 20,040 716 1 Samarco 1,049 2 Other 148 53 7 46 184 89 Total Iron Ore from Group production 14,543 9,054 1,880 7,174 19,175 805 3 Third party products 81 23 23 Total Iron Ore 14,624 9,077 1,880 7,197 19,175 805 94 70 Adjustment for equity accounted investments Total Iron Ore statutory result 14,624 9,077 1,880 7,197 19,175 805 94 70 1 Samarco is an equity accounted investment and its financial information presented above, with the exception of net operating assets, reflects BHP Billiton Brasil Ltdas share.
All financial impacts following the Samarco dam failure have been reported as exceptional items in both reporting periods.
2 Predominantly comprises divisional activities, towage services, business development and ceased operations.
3 Includes inter-segment and external sales of contracted gas purchases.
4 Refer to section 1.11.4 for a reconciliation of Net operating assets to Net assets and section 1.11.5 for the definition and method of calculation of Net operating assets.
Key drivers of Iron Ores financial results Production Total Iron ore production from WAIO for FY2018 increased by Price overview three per cent to a record 238 Mt, or 275 Mt on a 100 per cent Iron Ores average realised sales price for FY2018 was US$57 basis as a result of improved productivity and stability across per wet metric tonne wmt FY2017: US$58 per wmt.
Platts the supply chain and production records at Jimblebar and Mining 62 per cent Fe iron ore fines indices remained firm, underpinned Area C. Mining and processing operations at Samarco remain by the preference for high-quality iron ore on the back of strong suspended.
For further information on the Samarco dam failure, steel margins and iron-making capacity constraints in China due refer to section 1.8. to environment related production cuts.
The reduced Chinese domestic concentrate supply from ongoing environmental For more information on individual asset production in FY2018, campaigns added to supply tightness in the high grade segment.
The price spread between different grades of iron ore remained wide, as mills focused on productivity maximisation.
In the short term, supply growth from seaborne high-quality iron ore suppliers and ample iron ore inventories sitting at Chinese ports are expected to put a cap on the iron ore market.
In the medium to long term, we see technical product quality differentiation to remain an important element in price formation.
This thesis is underpinned by the fundamental improvement in steel profitability, the building of large-scale blast furnaces in coastal regions and the enforcement of more stringent environmental policies.
BHP Annual Report 2018 89 1.12.3 Iron Ore continued Financial results Exploration activities Total Iron Ore revenue increased by US$186 million to Western Australia US$14.8 billion.
WAIO has a substantial existing deposit supported by considerable additional mineralisation, all within a 250-kilometre radius of Underlying EBITDA for Iron Ore decreased by US$147 million to our existing infrastructure.
This concentration of ore bodies also US$8.9 billion.
Price impact, net of price-linked costs and higher gives WAIO the flexibility to add growth tonnes to existing hub other non-controllable costs including fuel and energy, decreased infrastructure and link brownfield developments to our existing Underlying EBITDA by US$614 million.
Higher volumes and mainline rail and port facilities.
The total area covered by exploration cost efficiencies reflecting continued reductions in labour and and mining tenure amounts to 4,677 square kilometres, excluding maintenance costs through improved equipment productivity crown leases and general purpose and miscellaneous licences that and maintenance strategies increased Underlying EBITDA by are used for infrastructure space and access.
Guinea Iron Ore WAIO unit costs decreased by two per cent to US$14.26 per tonne despite the impact of a stronger Australian dollar.
The calculation We have a 42.8 per cent interest in a joint venture that holds the of WAIO unit costs is set out in the table below.
In addition to the Mining Concession, the extension of two exploration licences covering satellite areas WAIO unit costs US$M FY2018 FY2017 in southeast Guinea are currently being discussed with the Guinean mining authorities.
We will continue to assess our options for the Revenue 14,596 14,395 Mount Nimba iron ore project.
Underlying EBITDA 8,869 9,001 Gross costs 5,727 5,394 Outlook WAIO production of between 241 and 250 Mt, or between 273 and Less: freight 1,276 983 Less: royalties 1,075 1,035 283 Mt on a 100 per cent basis is expected in FY2019.
This reflects a program of work to optimise maintenance schedules across our Net costs 3,376 3,376 supply chain and improve port reliability and performance which Sales kt, equity share 236,771 231,208 is planned for the September 2018 quarter, with a corresponding 1 Cost per tonne US$ 14.26 14.60 impact expected on production and unit costs.
WAIO unit costs guidance remains broadly unchanged at less than 1 FY2018 based on exchange rates of AUD USD 0.78.
90 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.12.4 Coal 1 Detailed below is financial information for our Coal assets for FY2018 and FY2017 and an analysis of Coals financial performance for FY2018 compared with FY2017.
Net Year ended 30 June 2018 Underlying Underlying operating Capital Exploration Exploration 6 US$M Revenue EBITDA D&A EBIT assets expenditure gross to profit Queensland Coal 7,388 3,647 596 3,051 8,355 391 New Mexico 2 New South Wales Energy Coal 1,605 652 149 503 994 18 2 Colombia 818 395 95 300 883 54 3 Other 10 3 13 379 Total Coal from Group production 9,811 4,684 843 3,841 9,853 463 Third party products 2 1 1 Total Coal 9,813 4,683 843 3,840 9,853 463 21 21 4 5 Adjustment for equity accounted investments 924 286 128 158 54 Total Coal statutory result 8,889 4,397 715 3,682 9,853 409 21 21 Net Year ended 30 June 2017 Underlying Underlying operating Capital Exploration Exploration 6 7 US$M Revenue EBITDA D&A EBIT assets expenditure gross to profit Queensland Coal 6,316 3,256 605 2,651 8,581 235 1 New Mexico 3 6 3 9 1 2 New South Wales Energy Coal 1,351 525 154 371 1,080 11 2 Colombia 749 363 96 267 873 34 3 Other 8 57 4 61 398 Total Coal from Group production 8,427 4,081 862 3,219 10,136 281 Third party products Total Coal 8,427 4,081 862 3,219 10,136 281 9 9 4 5 Adjustment for equity accounted investments 849 297 128 169 35 Total Coal statutory result 7,578 3,784 734 3,050 10,136 246 9 9 1 Includes the Navajo mine divested in July 2016.
2 Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group and Cerrejn are equity accounted investments and their financial information presented above, with the exception of net operating assets, reflects BHPs share.
3 Predominantly comprises divisional activities, IndoMet Coal divested in October 2016 and ceased operations.
4 Total Coal statutory result Revenue excludes US$818 million FY2017: US$749 million revenue related to Cerrejn.
Total Coal statutory result Underlying EBITDA includes US$95 million FY2017: US$96 million D&A and US$108 million FY2017: US$116 million net finance costs and taxation expense related to Cerrejn, that are also included in Underlying EBIT.
Coal statutory result Capital expenditure excludes US$54 million FY2017: US$34 million related to Cerrejn.
5 Total Coal statutory result Revenue excludes US$106 million FY2017: US$100 million revenue related to Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group.
Total Coal statutory result excludes US$83 million FY2017: US$85 million Underlying EBITDA, US$33 million FY2017: US$32 million D&A and US$50 million FY2017: US$53 million Underlying EBIT related to Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group until future profits exceed accumulated losses.
Total Coal statutory result Capital expenditure excludes US$ nil FY2017: US$1 million related to Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group.
7 Queensland Coal net operating assets have been restated to reflect ceased operations in Other on a consistent basis with FY2018.
There is no change to the overall net operating assets position.
Key drivers of Coals financial results Price overview Energy coal Our average realised sales price for FY2018 was US$87 per tonne Metallurgical coal FY2017: US$75 per tonne.
The Global Coal Newcastle 6,000 kcal kg Our average realised sales price for FY2018 was US$195 per tonne price increase was driven by strong growth in Chinese seaborne for hard coking coal FY2017: US$180 per tonne and US$132 per demand.
This was evident across both the heating and cooling tonne for weak coking coal FY2017: US$121 per tonne.
There was also strong industrial demand over the summer.
coal prices reached a high in the middle of FY2018 amid healthy Seaborne demand from India benefited from disappointing demand conditions and improved steel margins.
Prices eased from domestic production.
In the short term, Chinese imports are this peak coming out of the Asian winter given stable supply and unlikely to repeat their recent strength.
In the long term, global lower Chinese demand.
In the short term, supply constraints demand for energy coal is expected to grow only modestly, should ease with additional volumes expected from various with Indian and South East Asian demand offsetting weakness regions.
Within this broader view, the application of Chinas coal in OECD countries amidst slowing demand from China.
supply reform policy remains a major source of uncertainty.
Over the longer term, emerging markets such as India are expected to Production support seaborne demand growth.
High-quality metallurgical coals Metallurgical coal production increased by seven per cent will continue to offer steelmakers value-in-use benefits.
to a record 43 Mt in FY2018 as record stripping performance, increased truck hours and higher wash-plant utilisation from low-cost debottlenecking activities offset lower volumes from Broadmeadow and Blackwater.
Energy coal production was flat at 29 Mt as a strong performance at New South Wales Energy Coal was partially offset by the impacts of wet weather and higher strip ratio areas being mined at Cerrejn.
BHP Annual Report 2018 91 1.12.4 Coal continued Financial results additional contractor stripping fleet costs and debottlenecking activities, US$63 million increased maintenance costs due to Coal revenue increased by US$1.3 billion to US$8.9 billion in a higher number of planned shutdowns and major component FY2018.
The increase in revenue was primarily due to increases replacements and US$45 million increased contractor costs in the average realised coal prices.
from the re-opening of the Ayredale Pit at NSWEC.
Underlying EBITDA for Coal increased by US$613 million to Queensland Coal unit costs increased by 14 per cent to US$4.4 billion.
Prices, net of price-linked costs, increased US$68 per tonne, including the impact of a stronger Australian Underlying EBITDA by US$1.1 billion.
NSWEC unit costs increased by 12 per cent to US$46 decreased Underlying EBITDA by US$430 million, driven by per tonne, including the impact of a stronger Australian dollar.
US$150 million unfavourable fixed cost dilution from reduced The calculation of Queensland Coals and NSWECs unit costs volumes at Broadmeadow and Blackwater, US$109 million is set out in the table below.
Outlook Metallurgical coal production is expected to increase to between 43 and 46 Mt in FY2019, with volumes weighted to the second half of the year.
An extensive maintenance program is planned for the first half of FY2019, with a corresponding impact expected on production and unit costs.
Energy coal production is expected to remain broadly unchanged at approximately 28 to 29 Mt in FY2019.
Queensland Coal unit costs are expected to be between US$68 and US$72 per tonne, as a result of an eight per cent increase in strip ratios, higher diesel prices, local inflationary pressures and an extensive maintenance program planned for the first half of FY2019.
NSWEC unit costs are expected to be between US$43 and US$48 per tonne in FY2019 reflecting mine progression through geological constraints from the monocline transition, higher strip ratios and diesel prices, as well as increased contract mining costs.
Geological constraints are expected to continue into the medium term, with unit costs forecast to remain at approximately US$45 per tonne during this period.
92 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.12.5 Other assets 1.13 Other information 1 Nickel West Application of critical accounting policies Key drivers of Nickel Wests financial results The preparation of the Financial Statements requires management to make judgements and estimates and form assumptions Price overview that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, Our average realised sales price for FY2018 was US$12,592 per revenues and expenses reported in the Financial Statements.
Nickel prices rose steadily On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its judgements across FY2018, from below US$10,000 per tonne at the beginning and estimates in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, of July, to current levels around US$15,000 per tonne at the end revenue and expenses.
Management bases its judgements and of June.
Demand growth has been broad-based, coming from both estimates on historical experience and on other factors it believes stainless and non-stainless applications.
Nickel use in batteries, to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which while relatively small at present, has garnered much attention.
form the basis of the reported amounts that are not readily apparent On the supply side, rising nickel pig iron production and nickel ore from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates exports from Indonesia kept the global deficit in check.
Exchange under different assumptions and conditions.
stocks of refined nickel metal remain high relative to historical levels, but have been declining across FY2018.
In the near term, The Group has identified a number of critical accounting policies supply of nickel from Indonesia in multiple forms is expected to under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions grow, which should prevent an acceleration in the drawdown of are made.
Actual results may differ for these estimates under stocks.
In the long term, the battery sector is expected to provide different assumptions and conditions.
This may materially affect strong growth in demand for high-purity nickel supply.
financial results and the financial position to be reported in future.
These critical accounting policies are as follows: Production significant events Samarco dam failure: Nickel West production in FY2018 increased by six per cent to 91 kt, taxation: with increased production at the Mt Keith and Leinster operations inventories: supporting record metal production.
Nickel production for FY2019 is expected to remain broadly unchanged from that of FY2018.
exploration and evaluation: development expenditure: For more information on individual asset production in FY2018, overburden removal costs: FY2017 and FY2016, refer to section 6.2. depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Financial results impairments of non-current assets recoverable amount: Higher production and higher realised sales prices resulted in closure and rehabilitation provisions.
revenue increasing by US$348 million to US$1.3 billion.
In accordance with IFRS, we are required to include information Underlying EBITDA for Nickel West increased by US$247 million to regarding the nature of the judgements and estimates and potential US$291 million predominantly due to higher prices, and improved impacts on our financial results or financial position in the Financial mill utilisation and concentrator recoveries which supported record Statements.
This information can be found in section 5.1. metal production.
Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Potash We identified our principal market risks in section 1.6.
A description Potash recorded an Underlying EBITDA loss of US$135 million of how we manage our market risks, including both quantitative and in FY2018, compared to a loss of US$108 million in FY2017.
qualitative information about our market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at 30 June 2018, is contained in note 20 Financial risk management in section 5.1.
Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual commitments Information in relation to our material off-balance sheet arrangements, principally contingent liabilities, commitments for capital expenditure and commitments under leases at 30 June 2018 is provided in note 31 Commitments and note 32 Contingent liabilities in section 5.1.
Subsidiary information Information about our significant subsidiaries is included in note 27 Subsidiaries in section 5.1 and in note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2.
Related party transactions Related party transactions are outlined in note 30 Related party transactions in section 5.1.
Significant changes since the end of the year Significant changes since the end of the year are outlined in note 33 Subsequent events in section 5.1.
The Strategic Report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board.
Ken MacKenzie Chairman Dated: 6 September 2018 BHP Annual Report 2018 93 Haul trucks at the worlds largest copper mine, Escondida, in Northern Chile.
Photographer: Andrew Craig 94 BHP Annual Report 2018 Section 2 Governance at BHP In this section 2.1 Governance at BHP 2.2 Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Team 2.3 Shareholder engagement 2.4 Role and responsibilities of the Board 2.5 Board membership 2.6 Chairman 2.7 Renewal and re-election 2.8 Director skills, experience and attributes 2.9 Director induction, training and development 2.10 Independence 2.11 Board evaluation 2.12 Board meetings and attendance 2.13 Board committees 2.14 Risk management governance structure 2.15 Management 2.16 Our conduct 2.17 Market disclosure 2.18 Remuneration 2.19 Directors share ownership 2.20 Conformance with corporate governance standards 2.21 Additional UK disclosure BHP Annual Report 2018 95 2.1 Governance at BHP 2.1.
1 Chairmans letter At BHP, we believe we can drive cultural change in terms of reducing bureaucracy and improving productivity.
Ken MacKenzie Chairman Dear Shareholder, At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, I discussed our priorities, Culture and capability being safety, our portfolio, capital discipline, capability and culture, I believe culture is a genuine differentiator and source of competitive and social licence to operate.
We made good progress with these advantage.
There are many positive attributes at BHP: hard-working priorities during FY2018, and I want to touch on a few aspects here people, who have a real focus on the Groups Charter values and that are relevant to governance.
But there is always room for improvement.
At BHP, we believe we can drive cultural change in terms Safety of reducing bureaucracy and improving productivity.
Our first priority is safety, and our commitment to safety is relentless and unwavering.
The impact of the tragic fatalities that Your CEO, Andrew Mackenzie, has coined the phrase optimise occurred during FY2018 on the families, friends and colleagues without, meaning that employees need to look for ways to achieve of those who died is immeasurable and permanent, and we extend productivity gains without cost or volume as inputs.
If we can do our deepest sympathies to those affected.
The Sustainability this, we will be leaner and more agile in our decision-making.
Committee, as well as the full Board, considered in detail the Board composition findings of the investigations into the Goonyella fatality and the As you would expect, Board composition continues to be a topic Permian Basin fatality, as well as the fatality at our non-operated of discussion during my meetings with shareholders.
Investors like joint venture, Cerrejn.
We have shared those findings not only the Board believe that regular refreshment is important, but they with our own teams, but also externally with other mining are also aware of the value that corporate memory brings to a board.
We have also continued to focus on verification of safety controls and on improving safety risk culture.
As part of ongoing planning for Non-executive Director succession, the Board has maintained a skills matrix for several years.
Following Portfolio a review of Board succession planning, the Board has refreshed its BHP has a strong portfolio, with quality assets built around approach.
The requirements for Board composition are now framed attractive commodities in iron ore, coal, copper and conventional with an overarching statement, and the desired skills and experience petroleum.
We keep the composition of our portfolio of assets included in our updated matrix.
The overarching statement, under review.
This has led to a number of changes during the year, skills, experience and attributes take into account, and respond with further simplification of our portfolio due to the divestment to, the changing external environment and BHPs core business of Cerro Colorado in Chile and Gregory Crinum in Australia.
This is set out in section 2.8 Director skills, In July 2018, we announced the sale of our Onshore US assets experience and attributes.
for a base consideration of US$10.8 billion.
The sale of those The Board has 10 members, including the CEO.
I am a proponent assets is consistent with our long-term plan to continue to simplify of a relatively small Board.
However, for a company like BHP, which and strengthen our portfolio to generate shareholder value and has four key Board committees with the Sustainability Committee returns for decades to come.
being critically important in our industry, a Board size of 10 to 12 Capital discipline is appropriate.
As at 30 June, the average tenure of Directors Over recent years, we have made significant progress on was five years and two months.
BHP has an aspiration to achieve strengthening our Capital Allocation Framework, the framework gender balance across our workforce and on our Board by which we assess decisions relating to the deployment of capital.
by FY2025, and Board diversity remains a focus.
Application of the Framework assists us to make the most out As set out in last years Annual Report, in August 2017, we announced of every dollar we earn as we direct capital between investments, the appointment of Terry Bowen and John Mogford to the Board.
the balance sheet and returns to shareholders.
We have also In addition, Wayne Murdy has decided to retire from the Board been more transparent and provided greater clarity about our after the 2018 AGMs.
On behalf of all shareholders, I thank plans to keep net debt within a targeted range of US$10 billion Wayne for his wise counsel and valuable contribution to the to US$15 billion, and capital expenditure below US$8 billion per Board and the Group over many years and wish him all the best annum from FY2018 to FY2020.
During FY2018, we established for the future.
Our search for a new Non-executive Director with a Capital Allocation Working Group, consisting of members mining experience is well under way and we expect to make of the Board as well as management, to work together to further an appointment early in calendar year 2019. enhance our capital allocation processes.
The work of that Group, which was concluded in FY2018, is outlined in section 2.13.5.
96 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information e O x t v f i e e n r r a n s R C e n a i l s o e c i a k s a m u l a & d r m n i e t d A i p t o u t r o m e r d a o t i e i n t n n d i t g r o, i r s s k D e l e g a t i o n O r v e e R r m s e C u e n m o e e s u m r a a n m n t i e d i o r t n a t m t e p i E o C e o o x n l n h i i e t c i c o y e r u f s t i E v B x e e L o c e u a Social licence to operate Conclusion There has been a lot said on social licence in the past year.
It remains During the past few months, I have met with many of our as important as ever to do the right thing and fulfil our social institutional shareholders along with members of our retail contract.
Having invested in many different communities through shareholder base.
Direct engagement with investors remains our 130-year history, we are acutely aware that public acceptance invaluable to the Board and the management of BHP.
and trust are hard to measure when you have them, but easy to I have also, during FY2018, visited many of our operations around measure when you lose them.
We recognise that we must do more the world.
This has continued to reinforce to me the quality of to enhance our social licence.
BHPs assets and people, and the prospects for continuing to The Board has continued to focus on responding to the tragedy create long-term value for our shareholders.
Please see section 1.8 for information on our ongoing response to the Samarco dam failure.
2 Governance structure Our philosophy of governance goes beyond compliance.
The Risk and Audit Committee already We believe high-quality governance supports long-term value considers whistleblowing as part of its twice-yearly review of creation: simply put, good governance is good business.
Our EthicsPoint data and trends.
We also have a long-standing practice approach is to adopt what we consider to be the best of the of enabling the Board and committees to receive a broad range prevailing governance standards in Australia, the United Kingdom of stakeholder information and views.
We are reviewing the new Code to ensure our governance In the same spirit, we do not see governance as just a matter for framework remains aligned with best practice.
We will complete the Board.
Good governance is also the responsibility of executive this review before the start of FY2019 and report against the new management and is embedded throughout BHP.
In this, the Board Code in the Annual Report in 2020. and management are guided by Our Charter values, including our BHP governance structure value of Sustainability, in how we operate our business, interact The diagram below describes the governance framework at BHP.
with our stakeholders and plan for the future.
It shows the interaction between our shareholders and the Board, Update on UK governance reform as well as the relationship between the Board and the Chief In July 2018, the Financial Reporting Council released the 2018 Executive Officer CEO.
It also illustrates the flow of delegation UK Corporate Governance Code and the Guidance on Board from shareholders.
The new Code emphasises the importance of Robust processes are in place to ensure the delegation flows demonstrating, through reporting, how the governance of a through the Board and its committees to the CEO, the Executive company contributes to its long-term sustainable success and Leadership Team ELT and into the organisation.
At the same achieves wider objectives.
We agree that good governance time, accountability flows upwards from the Group to shareholders.
contributes to sustainable success, and recognise the renewed This process helps ensure alignment with shareholders.
emphasis on business building trust by forging strong relationships Our Charter is central to the governance framework of BHP.
We also understand the importance of a It embodies our corporate purpose, strategy and values and corporate culture that is aligned with BHPs purpose and business defines when we are successful.
We foster a culture that values strategy, and which promotes integrity and includes diversity.
and rewards high ethical standards, personal and corporate BHP is well placed to comply with the new Code.
For example, integrity and respect for others.
the Board has considered culture and purpose at regular intervals BHP governance structure Shareholders BHP Annual Report 2018 97 a d t i e v r r s e h d i O p O ff T v s i e e u c a r N c s e G r c m o e C e r e o e o m n s v s s e i m i e a n o w r m n n a a n i d l t p t i a a l t o m a n e n n n c e o d n e n i & i n t g o r s A c c o u n t a b i l i t y O m v a e t r S e s r u C i e a s o e l t s a m H a i S n m n E a d i C t b t m i e l m i o e t a n y t i t t e o r r s s 2.2 Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Team 2.2.
1 Board of Directors Ken MacKenzie Andrew Mackenzie Terry Bowen BEng, FIEA, FAICD, 54 BSc Geology, PhD Chemistry, 61 BAcct, FCPA, MAICD, 51 Independent Non-executive Director Chairman and Independent Non-independent Non-executive Director Director of BHP Billiton Limited and Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since October 2017.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since May 2013.
BHP Billiton Plc since September 2016.
Skills and experience: Mr Mackenzie was appointed Chief Executive Mr Bowen has significant executive experience Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and Officer on 10 May 2013. across a range of diversified industries.
He has BHP Billiton Plc from 1 September 2017.
Skills and experience: deep financial expertise, and extensive experience Skills and experience: Mr Mackenzie has over 30 years experience, in capital allocation discipline, commodity value Mr MacKenzie has extensive global and including in oil and gas, minerals, strategy chains and strategy.
executive experience and a deeply strategic and capital discipline over long-term cycles, He served as an Executive Director and Finance approach, with a focus on capital discipline technology, global markets, public policy Director of Wesfarmers Limited from 2009 to 2017, and the creation of long-term shareholder and commodity value chains.
He also has which included chairing a number of Wesfarmers value.
He has insight and understanding in non-executive director experience.
Wesfarmers is a conglomerate relation to organisational culture, the external Mr Mackenzie joined BHP in November with interests predominantly in Australian and environment, the diverse interests of our 2008 as Chief Executive Non-Ferrous, with New Zealand retail, chemicals, fertilisers, coal stakeholders and emerging issues related responsibility for over half of BHPs 100,000 mining and industrial and safety products.
Prior to our social licence to operate.
strong workforce across four continents.
to this, Mr Bowen held various senior executive Mr MacKenzie was the Managing Director He was appointed Chief Executive Officer in roles within Wesfarmers, including as Finance and Chief Executive Officer of Amcor Limited, May 2013.
Prior to BHP, Mr Mackenzie held Director of Coles, Managing Director of Industrial a global packaging company with operations various executive roles at Rio Tinto, including and Safety and Finance Director of Wesfarmers in over 40 countries, from 2005 until 2015. as Chief Executive of Diamonds and Minerals, Landmark.
He also served as the inaugural Chief During his 23-year career with Amcor, and at BP, where he held a number of senior Financial Officer of Jetstar Airways Limited from Mr MacKenzie gained extensive experience roles, including as Group Vice President for 2003 to 2005 and before this, held senior finance across all of Amcors major business segments Technology and Engineering, and Group roles over an 11-year career with Tubemakers of in developed and emerging markets in Vice President for Chemicals.
Mr Bowen is a former Director the Americas, Australia, Asia and Europe.
was previously a non-executive director of Gresham Partners and past President of of Centrica plc.
the National Executive of the Group of 100 Inc. Other directorships and offices He is also currently the Managing Partner and current and recent : Other directorships and offices Head of the Operations Group at BGH Capital.
current and recent : Former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Amcor Limited Fellow of the Royal Society of London The Board is satisfied that Mr Bowen meets the from July 2005 to April 2015 since May 2014 criteria for financial experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Code, competence in accounting Advisory Board member of American Director since May 2013 and Deputy Chair and auditing as required by the UK Financial Securities Capital Partners LLC since since November 2017 of the International Conduct Authoritys Corporate Governance January 2016 Council on Mining and Metals Rules and the audit committee financial expert Advisory Board member of Adamantem Former Director of the Grattan Institute requirements under the US Securities and Capital since September 2016 from May 2013 to November 2017 Exchange Commission SEC Rules.
Former Senior Adviser to McKinsey & Former Non-executive Director of Centrica Company from January 2016 to June 2017 plc from September 2005 to May 2013 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Board Committee membership: Managing Partner and Head of the Operations Chairman of the Nomination and Group at BGH Capital since 2018 Governance Committee Former Executive Director and Finance Director Member of the Sustainability Committee of Wesfarmers Limited from 2009 to 2017 Director of West Coast Eagles Football Club since 2017 Former Chairman of West Australian Opera Company Incorporated from 2014 to 2017 Former Director of Gresham Partners Holdings Limited and Gresham Partners Group Limited from 2009 to 2017 Former Director of the Harry Perkins Institute of Medical Research Incorporated from 2010 to 2013 Former Chief Financial Officer of Jetstar Airways Limited from 2003 to 2005 Board Committee membership: Member of the Risk and Audit Committee 98 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 2 Malcolm Broomhead Anita Frew Carolyn Hewson MBA, BE, FAICD, 66 BA Hons, MRes, Hon.
D. Sc, 61 AO, BEc Hons, MA, FAICD, 63 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Director of BHP Billiton Limited and Director of BHP Billiton Limited and Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since March 2010.
BHP Billiton Plc since September 2015.
BHP Billiton Plc since March 2010.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mr Broomhead has extensive experience Ms Frew has an extensive breadth of Ms Hewson has extensive non-executive as a non-executive director of global non-executive experience in diverse industries, experience in a number of sectors, as well as organisations, and as a chief executive of including chemicals, engineering, industrial executive experience in financial markets, risk large global industrial and mining companies.
In particular, Ms Frew has valuable management and investment management.
Mr Broomhead has a broad strategic insight and experience in the creation of Through her non-executive roles, Ms Hewson perspective and understanding of the shareholder value, organisational change, brings experience and insight on strategy long-term cyclical nature of the resources mergers and acquisitions, risk and health, and risk through cycles, social licence issues, the industry and commodity value chains, safety and environment.
changing external environment and the with proven health, safety and environment, promotion of corporate culture.
Ms Frew is the Chairman of Croda International and capital allocation performance.
Plc a British speciality chemicals company Ms Hewson is a former investment banker with Mr Broomhead was Managing Director and and Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent over 35 years experience in the finance sector.
Chief Executive Officer of Orica Limited Director of Lloyds Banking Group Plc.
Prior She was previously an Executive Director of a global mining company from 2001 until to this, she was the Chairman of Victrex Plc, Schroders Australia Limited and has extensive September 2005.
Prior to joining Orica, he Senior Independent Director of Aberdeen financial markets, risk management and held a number of senior positions at North Asset Management Plc and IMI Plc and a investment management expertise.
Ms Hewson Limited, including Managing Director and Non-executive Director of Northumbrian Water.
is a former Director of BT Investment Management Chief Executive Officer and, prior to that, Limited, Westpac Banking Corporation, AMP Other directorships and offices held senior management positions with Limited, CSR Limited, AGL Energy Limited, the current and recent : Halcrow UK, MIM Holdings, Peko Wallsend Australian Gas Light Company, South Australian Chairman of Croda International Plc and Industrial Equity.
Water and the Economic Development Board since September 2015 of South Australia.
Other directorships and offices Director from 2010, Deputy Chairman current and recent : Other directorships and offices since December 2014 and Senior current and recent : Chairman of Orica Limited since January Independent Director since May 2017 2016 and a Director since December 2015 Member of Federal Government Growth Centres of Lloyds Banking Group Plc Advisory Committee since January 2015 Former Chairman of Asciano Limited Former Senior Independent Director from October 2009 to August 2016 Director of Stockland Group since March 2009 of Aberdeen Asset Management Plc Former Director of Coates Group Holdings from October 2004 to September 2014 Trustee Westpac Foundation since May 2015 Pty Ltd from January 2008 to July 2013 Former Senior Independent Director Former Member of Australian Federal Director of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of IMI Plc from March 2006 to May 2015 Government Financial Systems Inquiry of Medical Research since July 2014 from January 2014 to December 2014 Former Chairman of Victrex Plc from 2008 Chairman of the Australia China One Belt One to October 2014 Former Member of the Advisory Board Road Advisory Board since August 2016 of Nanosonics Limited from June 2007 Board Committee membership: to August 2015 Board Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee Former Director of BT Investment Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Member of the Risk and Audit Committee Management Limited from December 2007 Member of the Nomination and to December 2013 Governance Committee Former Director of Australian Charities Fund Operations Limited from June 2000 to February 2014 Former Director and Patron of the Neurosurgical Research Foundation from April 1993 to December 2013 Former Trustee and Chairman of Westpac Buckland Fund from January 2011 to December 2013 and Chairman of Westpac Matching Gifts Limited from August 2011 to December 2013, together known as the Westpac Foundation Former Director of Westpac Banking Corporation from February 2003 to June 2012 Board Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee BHP Annual Report 2018 99 2.2.
1 Board of Directors continued Lindsay Maxsted John Mogford Wayne Murdy DipBus Gordon, FCA, FAICD, 64 BEng, 65 BSc Business Administration, CPA, 74 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Director of BHP Billiton Limited and Director of BHP Billiton Limited and Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since March 2011.
BHP Billiton Plc since October 2017.
BHP Billiton Plc since June 2009.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mr Maxsted has over 10 years experience Mr Mogford has significant global executive Mr Murdy has significant executive experience in non-executive roles, including as chairman experience, including in oil and gas, capital in the mining industry and a background in of two global companies.
Mr Maxsted is also allocation discipline, commodity value finance and accounting.
Mr Murdy has a deep a corporate recovery specialist who has chains and health, safety and environment.
understanding of strategy over long-term managed a number of Australias largest Mr Mogford has also held roles as a noncycles, capital discipline and commodity value corporate insolvency and restructuring executive director on a number of boards.
As a long-standing member engagements and, until 2011, continued of the BHP Board, he has extensive corporate Mr Mogford spent the majority of his career in to undertake consultancy work in the knowledge and understanding.
various leadership, technical and operational restructuring advisory field.
More recently, he was the Mr Murdy has held executive roles with Getty Chief Executive Officer of KPMG Australia Managing Director and an Operating Partner Oil, Apache Corporation and Newmont Mining between 2001 and 2007. of First Reserve, a large global energy focused Corporation.
He served as the Chief Executive Mr Maxsted has a breadth of understanding private equity firm, from 2009 until 2015, Officer of Newmont Mining Corporation from and insight in relation to the creation of during which he served on the boards of First 2001 to 2007 and Chairman from 2002 to shareholder value through cycles, risk, capital Reserves investee companies, including as 2007, and has been a Director of Extraction discipline and the external environment.
Chairman of Amromco Energy LLC and White Oil and Gas, Inc. since December 2016 and Rose Energy Ventures LLP.
Mr Mogford retired Lead Independent Director since March 2018.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Maxsted meets from the boards of Weir Group Plc, and one Mr Murdy is also a former Chairman of the the criteria for recent and relevant financial of First Reserves portfolio companies, DOF International Council on Mining and Metals, experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Subsea AS, in 2018, and is currently on the a former Director of the US National Mining Code and competence in accounting and board of ERM Worldwide Group Limited.
Association and a former member of the auditing as required by the UK Financial Manufacturing Council of the US Department Conduct Authoritys Corporate Governance Other directorships and offices of Commerce.
In addition, he is the Boards nominated current and recent : audit committee financial expert for the Other directorships and offices Former Non-executive Director of Network purposes of the SEC Rules.
current and recent : Rail Limited from 2016 to 2017 Director of Extraction Oil and Gas, Inc. Former Managing Director from 2012 to Other directorships and offices since December 2016 and Lead 2015 and Operating Partner from 2009 current and recent : Independent Director since March 2018 to 2012 of First Reserve Corporation Chairman of Westpac Banking Corporation Former Director of Weyerhaeuser Company Non-executive Director of ERM Worldwide since December 2011 and a Director from January 2009 to February 2016 Group Limited since 2015 since March 2008 Former Director of Qwest Communications Former Non-executive Director of Midstates Chairman of Transurban Group International Inc. from September 2005 Petroleum Company Inc. from 2011 to 2016 since August 2010 and a Director to April 2011 since March 2008 Former Non-executive Director of CHC Group Limited from 2014 to 2015 and CHC Director and Honorary Treasurer Board Committee membership: Helicopters SA from 2012 to 2015 of Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute Member of the Remuneration Committee since June 2005 Former Non-executive Director of DOF Member of the Risk and Audit Committee Subsea AS from 2009 to 2018 Board Committee membership: Mr Murdy has decided not to stand for Former Non-executive Director of Weir Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee re-election as a Non-executive Director at the Group Plc from 2008 to 2018 2018 Annual General Meetings of BHP.
Board Committee membership: Member of the Sustainability Committee 100 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 2 Shriti Vadera Margaret Taylor MA, 56 BA, LLB, GAICD, FCIS, 58 Senior Independent Director, BHP Billiton Plc Group Company Secretary and Chairman of the Disclosure Committee Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since January 2011.
Ms Taylor was appointed Group Company Secretary of BHP effective June 2015.
Skills and experience: Previously, she was Group Company Secretary Ms Vadera brings wide-ranging and global of Commonwealth Bank of Australia, and experience in economics, public policy and before joining the Bank, held the position strategy, as well as deep understanding of Group General Counsel and Company and insight in relation to global and Secretary of Boral Limited.
Prior to that, emerging markets and the macro-political Ms Taylor was Regional Counsel Australia Asia and economic environment.
with BHP, and earlier, a partner with law firm Minter Ellison, specialising in corporate Ms Vadera has held executive roles and has and securities laws.
She is a Fellow of the broad non-executive experience.
She is Governance Institute of Australia.
Chairman of Santander UK Group Holdings Plc and Santander UK Plc, and has been a Director of AstraZeneca Plc since 2011.
She was an investment banker with S G Warburg UBS from 1984 to 1999, on the Council of Economic Advisers, HM Treasury from 1999 to 2007, Minister in the UK Department of International Development in 2007, Minister in the Cabinet Office and Business Department from 2008 to 2009 with responsibility for dealing with the financial crisis and G20 Adviser from 2009 to 2010.
Ms Vadera advised governments, banks and investors on the Eurozone crisis, banking sector, debt restructuring and markets from 2010 to 2014.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : Chairman of Santander UK Group Holdings Plc and Santander UK Plc since March 2015 Director of AstraZeneca Plc since January 2011 Former Trustee of Oxfam from 2000 until 2005 Board Committee membership: Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee BHP Annual Report 2018 101 2.2.
2 Executive Leadership Team Andrew Mackenzie Diane Jurgens BSc Geology, PhD Chemistry, 61 BSEE, MSEE, MBA, 56 Chief Executive Officer Chief Technology Officer See section 2.2.
1 for biography Ms Jurgens joined BHP in 2015 and was appointed Chief Technology Officer in February 2016.
Prior to joining BHP, Ms Jurgens was based Arnoud Balhuizen in China for nearly 10 years, serving as Board Member and Managing BBE, 49 Director of Shanghai OnStar Telematics Company, in addition to prior roles as Chief Information Officer and Strategy Board member for Chief Commercial Officer General Motors International and China Operations.
Ms Jurgens early Mr Balhuizen was appointed Chief Commercial Officer in March 2017. career was with the Boeing Company where she worked for 12 years Prior to this, he was President Marketing and Supply from March 2016 in engineering, information technology and business development and President Marketing from 2013.
Mr Balhuizen started his career with leadership roles.
Billiton in 1994, working for the Marketing and Trading division in the Netherlands.
Since then he has held various marketing roles, including Daniel Malchuk General Manager Marketing for Copper Cathodes, Vice President Iron BEng, MBA, 52 Ore Marketing and Vice President Petroleum Marketing.
President Operations, Minerals Americas Peter Beaven Mr Malchuk was appointed President Operations, Minerals Americas BAcc, CA, 51 in February 2016 based in Santiago, Chile.
Previously he was President of the Copper Business.
Mr Malchuk has held a number of roles in BHP, Chief Financial Officer including President Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel, President of Mr Beaven was appointed Chief Financial Officer in October 2014.
Minerals Exploration, and Vice President Strategy and Development Previously he was the President of Copper and prior to that appointment Base Metals.
He has worked in four countries with BHP, after joining in May 2013, President of Base Metals, President of BHPs Manganese the Company in April 2002. Business, and Vice President and Chief Development Officer for Carbon Steel Materials.
He has wide experience across a range Steve Pastor of regions and businesses in BHP, UBS Warburg, Kleinwort Benson BSc Mechanical Engineering, MBA, 52 and .
President Operations, Petroleum Geoff Healy Mr Pastor joined BHP in 2001 and was appointed President Operations, BEc, LLB, 52 Petroleum in February 2016.
He is responsible for the Groups global oil and gas operations and exploration program.
Over his career with BHP, Chief External Affairs Officer Mr Pastor has served as Asset President Conventional and he has held Mr Healy joined BHP as Chief Legal Counsel in June 2013 and was leadership roles in deepwater and shale operations.
Prior to joining BHP, appointed Chief External Affairs Officer in February 2016.
Prior to Mr Pastors experience includes 11 years with Chevron.
joining BHP, Mr Healy was a partner at Herbert Smith Freehills for 16 years and a member of its Global Partnership Council, working Athalie Williams widely across its network of Australian and international offices.
BA Hons, FAHRI, 48 Chief People Officer Mike Henry BSc Chemistry, 52 Ms Williams joined BHP in 2007 and was appointed to the role of President, Human Resources in January 2015.
Ms Williams title changed President Operations, Minerals Australia to Chief People Officer effective 1 July 2015.
She has previously held Mr Henry joined BHP in 2003.
He served as President, Coal from senior Human Resources positions, including Vice President Human January 2015 to February 2016 when he was appointed President Resources Marketing, Vice President Human Resources for the Uranium Operations, Minerals Australia.
Prior to January 2015, he was business and Group HR Manager, Executive Resourcing & Development.
His earlier career with Prior to BHP, Ms Williams was an organisation strategy advisor with BHP included a number of commercial roles covering Minerals Accenture formerly Andersen Consulting and National Australia Bank.
and Petroleum, including the role of Chief Marketing Officer.
Ms Williams is a member of Chief Executive Women and a Director of the BHP Billiton Foundation.
102 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 2.3 Shareholder engagement Part of the Boards commitment to high quality governance is to engage directly with governance managers, fund managers and expressed through the approach BHP takes to engaging and governance advisers.
We also meet regularly with retail shareholder communicating with its shareholders.
We encourage shareholders representatives, such as the Australian Shareholders Association, to make their views known to us.
the UK Shareholders Association and the UK Individual Shareholders Society.
Our shareholders are based around the globe.
As well as the two AGMs, which are an important part of the governance and We take a coordinated approach to engagement on corporate investor engagement process, the Board uses a range of formal governance and during FY2018, we responded to a wide range and informal communication channels to understand the views of shareholders, their representatives and non-governmental of shareholders.
This ensures the Board represents shareholders in organisations.
Issues covered included Samarco, non-operated joint governing BHP.
We regularly engage with institutional shareholders ventures, industry associations, tax and transparency, corporate 2 and investor representative organisations in Australia, South Africa, purpose, remuneration, climate change, cybersecurity and diversity.
the United Kingdom and the United States.
The purpose of these Engagement with other groups, including non-governmental meetings is to discuss governance and strategy of BHP.
The organisations, is outlined in section 1.9. meetings are an important opportunity to build relationships and Investor engagement in FY2018 Topic Led by Purpose FY2018 activity Strategy, governance Chairman Discuss proposals and issues with Meetings held in Australia, the UK and the and remuneration shareholders and other stakeholders.
US in July August 2017, and the US and Meetings are scheduled to allow for the UK in May 2018. feedback and for new policies to be developed prior to AGMs.
Retail shareholder event, held in conjunction with the Australian Shareholders Association in July 2018, in line with our intention to make this an annual event.
Strategy, governance Senior Independent Discuss strategy, Board succession and Meetings held by the Senior Independent and remuneration Director remuneration issues.
Director in the UK in January and Australia in February.
Strategy, finance CEO, CFO, senior Update shareholders on results or other Live webcasts of important announcements.
We also engage and operating performance Investor Relations with other capital providers: for example, Face-to-face investor meetings held in through meetings with bondholders.
Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Singapore, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the US.
Debt investor meetings held in London in September.
Debt investor teleconferences held in August 2017 and February 2018 were attended by investors in Canada, France, India, Switzerland, Turkey, the UK and the US.
Health, Safety, Head of Health, Safety Update investors on key HSEC issues.
Meetings held in Australia in September.
Environment and and Environment The European ESG roadshow will take place Community HSEC in October 2018 to re-align with the release of the Sustainability Report.
Governance strategy Group Governance Provides a conduit to enable the Board Meetings held in Australia and the UK and briefings and its committees to remain abreast throughout the year, in Sweden and the US of evolving investor expectations and in March, and South Africa in May.
Multiple to continuously enhance the governance briefings on Samarco, including an update in processes of BHP.
March covering non-operated joint ventures and a Renova Foundation update.
Vice President, Meetings held in Australia and the UK Climate change Update investors on our strategy on Sustainability and climate change.
throughout the year, the US in March Climate Change and South Africa in May.
Shareholder communications Annual General Meetings Shareholders can communicate with BHP and our registrar The AGMs provide a forum to facilitate the sharing of shareholder electronically.
Shareholders can contact us at any time through views, and are important events in the BHP calendar.
These meetings our Investor Relations team, with contact details available online provide an update for shareholders on our performance and offer at bhp.
Shareholder and analyst feedback is shared with an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions and vote.
the Board through the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, Key members of management, including the CEO and CFO, are the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, other Directors, present and available to answer questions.
The External Auditor the CEO, the CFO and the Group Company Secretary.
In addition, attends the AGMs and is also available to answer questions.
Investor Relations and Group Governance provide regular reports Proceedings at shareholder meetings are webcast live from our to the Board on shareholder and governance manager feedback website.
Copies of the speeches delivered by the Chairman and and analysis.
This approach provides a robust mechanism to CEO to the AGMs are released to the stock exchanges and posted ensure that Directors are aware of issues raised and have a good on our website.
A summary of proceedings and the outcome of understanding of current shareholder views.
voting on the items of business are released to the relevant stock exchanges and posted on our website as soon as they are available following completion of the BHP Billiton Limited AGM.
Information relating to our AGMs is available online at bhp.
BHP Annual Report 2018 103 Understanding shareholder views Retail investors Proxy advisers Sell side analysts ESG advisers Institutional investors Research providers ESG ratings agencies Environmental, Social Portfolio managers & Governance managers Group Governance Investor Relations meetings and correspondence meetings and correspondence Chairman Senior Independent Director CEO CFO Senior Management Remuneration Committee Chairman Board Annual General Meetings 2.4 Role and responsibilities of the Board The Boards role is to represent the shareholders.
It is accountable Non-executive Directors.
It also provides that the Group Company to shareholders for creating and delivering value through the Secretary is accountable to the Board and advises the Chairman effective governance of BHP.
This role requires a high-performing and, through the Chairman, the Board and individual Directors Board, with all Directors contributing to the Boards collective on all matters of governance process.
The CEO is required to report regularly to the Board in a spirit The Board Governance Document is a statement of the practices and of openness and trust on the progress being made by BHP.
processes the Board has adopted to discharge its responsibilities.
Open dialogue between individual members of the Board and It includes the processes the Board has implemented to undertake the CEO and other members of the management team is its own tasks and activities: the matters it has reserved for its own encouraged to enable Directors to gain a better understanding consideration and decision-making: the authority it has delegated of the Group.
to the CEO, including the limits on the way in which the CEO can For more information, execute that authority: and guidance on the relationship between refer to sections 2.5 to 2.8. the Board and the CEO.
The Board Governance Document specifies the role of the Chairman, The Board Governance Document is available online at bhp.
the membership of the Board and the role and conduct of Matters reserved for Board decision Topic Matter Succession Appointment of the CEO and determination of the terms of the appointment.
Succession planning for direct reports to the CEO.
Approval of the appointment of executives reporting to the CEO and membership of the ELT, and material changes to the organisational structure involving direct reports to the CEO.
Strategic Strategy, annual budgets, balance sheet management and funding strategy.
matters Determination of commitments, capital and non-capital items, acquisitions and divestments above specified thresholds.
Setting dividend policy and determining dividends.
Market risk management strategy and limits.
Monitoring Performance assessment of the CEO and the Group and the remuneration of the CEO.
Management of Board composition processes and performance.
Review and monitoring systems of risk management and internal control.
Establishment and assessment of measurable diversity objectives.
Reporting Determination and adoption of documents including the publication of reports and statements to shareholders that are and regulation required by the Groups constitutional documents, statute or by other external regulation.
Determination and approval of matters that are required by the Groups constitutional documents, statute or by other external regulation to be determined or approved by the Board.
104 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Key Board activities during FY2018 The Board considered a range of matters during FY2018, as outlined below.
Strategic matters Capital allocation Capital Allocation Framework, Dividend policy and dividend recommendations capital prioritisation and development outcomes Capital prioritisation and portfolio development options Capital expenditure revised Board process Funding annual budgets, balance sheet management, Two-year budget and annual funding plan liquidity management Euro medium-term note update 2 Portfolio Group scenarios, commodity and asset Approval of Spence Growth Option review, growth options, approving commitments, Petroleum commodity review capital and non-capital items and acquisitions and divestments above a specified threshold, Safety and productivity and geopolitical and macro-environmental impacts Jansen FY2018 plans and supplementary approval Onshore US divestment execution Capital Allocation Working Group Approval for Samarco funding Industry association membership Approval of capital investment South Flank Audit tender Technology strategy Samarco strategy updates Review of Dual Listed Company structure Portfolio review commodities and assets Divestment of Cerro Colorado Monitoring and assurance matters Includes matters and or documents required Goonyella fatality ICAM by the Groups constitutional documents, statute Permian Basin fatality ICAM or by other external regulation Investor relations reports CEO reports HSEC reports Risk and Audit Committee report-outs Sustainability Committee report-outs including Site Visit report-outs Nomination and Governance Committee report-outs Remuneration Committee report-outs Approval of the CEOs remuneration Chairmans matters Board composition, succession planning, Committee succession performance and culture Board composition and succession Culture update Diversity case study Inclusion and Diversity Council update and FY2018 targets Reviewing Engagement & Perception Survey results Director evaluation and independence Reviewing and approving the Annual Report suite Reviewing the ELT succession and talent pipeline Site visits and Board meetings held outside of Melbourne and London BHP Annual Report 2018 105 2.5 Board membership 2.6 Chairman The Board currently has 10 members.
This will reduce to nine Until his retirement on 31 August 2017, the Chairman was Jac following the retirement of Wayne Murdy after the 2018 BHP Billiton Nasser, who was considered by the Board to be independent Limited AGM.
The Non-executive Directors are considered by the on his appointment.
He was appointed Chairman of the Group Board to be independent of management and free from any with effect from 31 March 2010, and had been a Non-executive business relationship or other circumstance that could materially Director since 6 June 2006.
The Board considered that none interfere with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent of Mr Nassers other commitments interfered with the discharge judgement.
For more information on the process for assessing of his responsibilities to BHP during the relevant part of the year independence, refer to section 2.10. under review.
Ken MacKenzie succeeded Jac Nasser as Chairman with effect from 1 September 2017.
The Nomination and Governance Committee retains the services of external recruitment specialists to assist in the identification of Mr MacKenzie was considered by the Board to be independent potential candidates for the Board.
on his appointment as Chairman, and was an independent Non-executive Director from his appointment to the Board The Board believes there is an appropriate balance between effective 22 September 2016.
The Board considered that none Executive and Non-executive Directors to promote shareholder of Mr MacKenzies other commitments set out in section 2.2.
1 interests and govern BHP effectively.
While the Board includes interfered with the discharge of his responsibilities to BHP a smaller number of Executive Directors than is common for during the year under review.
The Board is satisfied that UK-listed companies, its composition is appropriate for the Dual as Chairman, Mr MacKenzie made sufficient time available Listed Company structure and is in line with Australian-listed to serve BHP effectively.
In addition, the Board has extensive access to members of senior management who frequently attend Board meetings, where they make presentations and engage 2.7 Renewal and re-election in discussions with Directors, answer questions and provide input and perspective on their areas of responsibility.
The CFO Renewal attends all Board meetings.
The Board, led by the Chairman, BHP adopts a structured and rigorous approach to Board also holds discussions in the absence of management at the succession planning.
We consider Board size, tenure and the beginning and end of Board meetings.
skills, experience and attributes required to effectively govern and manage risk within BHP.
This process is continuous, and The Directors of BHP, along with their biographical details, planning is based on an expected nine-year tenure, allowing are listed in section 2.2.
1. the Board to ensure we have the right balance on the Board between experience and fresh perspectives, noting the value Inclusion and diversity of non-executive and executive experience.
It also ensures Our Charter and the Our Requirements for Human Resources the Board continues to be fit-for-purpose and evolves to take standard guide management on all aspects of human resource account of the rapidly changing external environment and BHPs management, including inclusion and diversity.
Further information is set out in section 2.13.3 the Our Requirements standards and supporting the achievement Nomination and Governance Committee Report.
of diversity across BHP are principles and measurable objectives When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination that define our approach to diversity and our focus on creating an inclusive work environment.
and Governance Committee oversees the preparation of a position specification which is then provided to an external search firm The Board and management believe many facets of diversity are retained to conduct a global search.
The search firm is instructed to required, as set out in section 2.13.3, in order to meet the corporate consider a wide range of candidates, including taking into account purpose.
Diversity is a core consideration in ensuring the Board the criteria and attributes set out in the Board Governance Document.
and its committees have the right blend of perspectives so that the Board oversees BHP effectively for shareholders.
Once a candidate is identified, the Board, with the assistance of external consultants, conducts appropriate background and Part of the Boards role is to consider and approve measurable reference checks.
The candidate is also interviewed by each Board objectives for workforce diversity each financial year and to assess member ahead of the Board deciding whether to appoint the annually both the objectives and our progress in achieving those candidate to the Board.
This progress will continue to be disclosed in the Annual The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that contains the Report, along with the proportion of women in our workforce, in senior management positions and on the Board, with our aspirational terms on which Non-executive Directors will be appointed, including the basis upon which they will be indemnified by the Group.
The goal being to achieve gender balance across the business and the Board by FY2025.
For more information on inclusion and diversity letter of appointment clearly defines the role of Directors, including the expectations in terms of independence, participation, time at BHP, including our progress against our measurable objectives and our employee profile more generally, refer to section 1.7. commitment and continuous improvement.
A copy of the terms of appointment for Non-executive Directors is available online at bhp.
106 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Director re-election Skills matrix During FY2018, the Nomination and Governance Committee and The Board adopted a policy in 2011, consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code, under which all Directors must seek re-election the Board conducted a review of the Board skills matrix, which took into account the skills and experience the Board requires by shareholders annually if they wish to remain on the Board.
The Board believes annual re-election promotes and supports for the next period of BHPs development, having regard to BHPs circumstances and the changing external environment.
The combined voting outcome of the BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited 2017 AGMs was The revised matrix now includes an emphasis on technology that each Director received more than 96 per cent in support and commodity value chain expertise.
A narrow focus on capital of their re-election.
projects has now become a more broadly defined capital allocation and cost efficiency skill, which reflects business imperatives.
Board support for re-election is not automatic.
Directors who are seeking re-election are subject to a performance appraisal In addition, strategy and risk have been separated, and the defined 2 overseen by the Nomination and Governance Committee.
skills around governance, marketing and remuneration are no Annual re-election effectively means all Directors are subject longer included in the matrix, with a different approach now being to a performance appraisal annually.
The Board, on the taken to these skills.
Governance is experience that all Directors recommendation of the Nomination and Governance Committee, should possess, while experience with remuneration is satisfied makes a determination as to whether it will endorse a retiring by having a mix of executive and non-executive experience on Director for re-election.
The Board will not endorse a Director for the Board, and marketing is now included in commodity value re-election if his or her performance is not considered satisfactory.
All of the remaining definitions have been updated.
The Notice of Meeting provides information that is material to Fewer Directors meet each of the skills and experience contained a shareholders decision whether or not to re-elect a Director, in the updated matrix than was the case previously.
This is including whether or not re-election is supported by the Board.
intentional, but all Directors satisfy both the overarching statement and the key attributes.
Further information about the skills and attributes of each Director is set out in their biographies.
2.8 Director skills, experience Board skills and experience: Climate change and attributes The strategic issues facing the Board change over time.
It is Skills, experience and attributes required important the Board is able to identify these issues and access The Board and its Nomination and Governance Committee work the best possible advice.
to ensure that the Board continues to have the right balance Climate change is a multi-faceted issue that affects investment necessary to discharge its responsibilities in accordance with decisions, our portfolio, oversight of the sustainability of our the highest standards of governance.
During the year under operations and engagement with government, investors, suppliers review, the new Chairman led a review of the Boards approach and customers.
The Board includes an appropriate mix of skills and to succession planning.
The requirements for Board composition experience to understand the implications of climate change on are now articulated in an overarching statement, with the our operations, market and society.
desired skills and experience included in an updated skills and experience matrix.
Climate change is treated as a Board-level governance issue and is discussed regularly, including during Board strategy discussions, The overarching statement, skills, experience and attributes portfolio review and investment decisions, and in the context take into account, and respond to, the external environment of scenario triggers and signposts.
The Sustainability Committee and BHPs core business characteristics, including: spends a significant amount of time considering systemic climate BHPs strategy and the long-term cyclical nature of the business: change matters relating to the resilience of, and opportunities that BHP is a global natural resources company operating in for, BHPs portfolio.
global markets: As a Board-level governance issue requiring experience of managing the continued need to focus on financial and HSEC risks: in the context of uncertainty and an understanding of the risk the increasing challenge to retain our social licence to operate, environment of the Group, all of the Non-executive Directors and the many stakeholders that will determine whether that bring relevant experience to our climate change discussions.
licence is retained, including civil society, communities, Board members bring significant sectoral experience, which equips investors, government, regulators, customers and employees: them to consider potential implications of climate change on the the increasing importance of technology and innovation to Group and its operational capacity.
Board members also possess the sustainability of BHP: extensive experience in energy, governance and sustainability.
ongoing and continued focus on capital allocation, and There is also wide-ranging experience in finance, economics and improving shareholder and capital returns.
public policy, which helps BHP understand the nature of the debate Overarching statement of Board requirements and the international policy response as it develops.
In addition, there is a deep understanding of systemic risk and the potential The BHP Board will be diverse in terms of gender, background, impacts on our portfolio.
nationality, skills, expertise and geographic location.
The Board will comprise Directors who have proven past performance and Collectively, this means the Board has the experience and skills the level of business, executive and non-executive experience to assist the Group in the optimal allocation of financial, capital required to: and human resources for the creation of long-term shareholder provide the breadth and depth of understanding necessary value.
It also means the Board understands the importance of to effectively create long-term shareholder value: meeting the expectations of stakeholders, including in respect protect and promote the interests of BHP and its social licence of the natural environment.
to operate: To enhance that experience, the Board has taken a number of ensure the talent, capability and culture of the Group support measures to ensure that its decisions are appropriately informed the long-term delivery of BHPs strategy.
by climate change science and expert advisers.
Attributes The Board seeks the input of management including Dr Fiona The Board considers that each of the Non-executive Directors Wild, our Vice President Sustainability and Climate Change, has the following attributes: sufficient time to undertake the our Forum on Corporate Responsibility which advises the Board responsibilities of the role: honesty and integrity: and a preparedness on sustainability issues and includes Don Henry, former CEO to question, challenge and critique.
The Executive Director of the Australian Conservation Foundation and Changhua Wu, brings additional perspectives to the Board through a deeper former Greater China Director, the Climate Group and other understanding of BHPs business and day-to-day operations.
BHP Annual Report 2018 107 Skills and experience Board Total Directors 10 Mining Senior Executive who has deep operating or technical mining experience with a large company operating in multiple countries: successfully optimised and led a suite of large, global, complex operating assets that have delivered consistent and sustaining levels of high performance related to cost, returns and throughput : successfully led exploration projects with proven results and performance: delivered large capital projects that have been successful in terms of performance and returns: and a proven record in terms of health, safety and environmental performance and results.
3 Oil and Gas Senior Executive who has deep technical and operational oil and gas experience with a large company operating in multiple countries: successfully led production operations that have delivered consistent and sustaining levels of high performance related to cost, returns and throughput : successfully led exploration projects with proven results and performance: delivered large capital projects that have been successful in terms of performance and returns: and a proven record in terms of health, safety and environmental performance and results.
2 Global experience Global experience working in multiple geographies over an extended period of time, including a deep understanding of and experience with global markets, and the macro-political and economic environment.
6 Strategy Experience in enterprise-wide strategy development and implementation in industries with long cycles, and developing and leading business transformation strategies.
8 Risk Experience and deep understanding of systemic risk and monitoring risk management frameworks and controls, and the ability to identify key emerging and existing risks to the organisation.
10 Commodity value chain expertise End-to-end value or commodity chain experience understanding of consumers, marketing demand drivers including specific geographic markets and other aspects of commodity chain development.
5 Financial expertise Extensive relevant experience in financial regulation and the capability to evaluate financial statements and understand key financial drivers of the business, bringing a deep understanding of corporate finance, internal financial controls and experience probing the 1 adequacy of financial and risk controls.
10 2 Relevant public policy expertise Extensive experience specifically and explicitly focused on public policy or regulatory matters, including ESG in particular climate change and community issues, social responsibility and transformation, and economic issues.
2 Health, safety, environment and community Extensive experience with complex workplace health, safety, environmental and community risks and frameworks.
7 Technology Recent experience and expertise with the development, selection and implementation of leading and business transforming technology and innovation, and responding to digital disruption.
2 Capital allocation and cost efficiency Extensive direct experience gained through a senior executive role in capital allocation discipline, cost efficiency and cash flow, with proven long-term performance.
6 1 Ten Directors meet the criteria of financial expertise outlined above.
Two of these Directors also meet the criteria for recent and relevant financial experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code, competence in accounting and auditing as required by the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Corporate Governance Rules in DTR7 and the audit committee financial expert requirements under the US Securities and Exchange Commission rules.
Board tenure and diversity as at 30 June 2018 Tenure Location Gender 03 years 36 years 10% 30% 30% Female 40% 10% Australia Female 30% Europe Male 60% US 70% 69 years 9 years 40% 10% 108 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 2.9 Director induction, training and development The development of industry and Group knowledge is a continuous Following the induction program, Non-executive Directors and ongoing process.
The Boards development activity reflects participate in continuous improvement activities Training and the diversification of the portfolio through the provision of regular Development Program, which are overseen by the Nomination updates to Directors on BHPs assets, commodities, geographies and Governance Committee.
The Training and Development and markets, and on the changing external environment, to enable Program covers a range of matters of a business nature, including the Board to remain up-to-date.
environmental, social and governance matters.
Programs are designed to maximise the effectiveness of the Directors throughout Upon appointment, each new Non-executive Director undertakes their tenure and reflect their individual performance evaluations.
an induction program specifically tailored to his or her needs.
A copy of an indicative induction program is available online 2 at bhp.
Training and development in FY2018 Area Purpose FY2018 activity Briefings Provide each Director with a deeper Diversity case study understanding of the activities, environment, key issues and direction of the assets along Technology strategy with HSEC and public policy considerations.
Iron Ore market update Petroleum review Development Specific topics of relevance.
BHP and China 2035 sessions Site visits Briefings on the assets, operations and Western Australia Iron Ore, Iron Ore, Australia other relevant issues and meetings with key personnel.
Houston, Petroleum, United States Olympic Dam, Copper, Australia Marketing, Supply and Technology, Singapore Closed sites, Arizona, United States Samarco, Iron Ore, Brazil External speakers Addresses by various external experts to One Belt One Road initiative provide insight into current geopolitical, economic or social themes.
Climate change and the impact on developing countries Economic reforms in China Institutional political economy The rate of climate change and its impacts These sessions and site visits also allow an opportunity to Each Board committee provides a standing invitation for any discuss in detail the changing risk environment and the potential Non-executive Director to attend committee meetings rather for impacts on the achievement of our corporate purpose and than just limiting attendance to committee members.
For information on the management of principal agendas and papers are provided to all Directors to ensure Directors risks, refer to sections 1.6.
5 and 2.14. are aware of matters to be considered by the committees and any Director can elect to attend meetings where appropriate.
The Chairman throughout the year discusses development areas with each Director.
Board committees in turn review and agree their training needs.
The benefit of this approach is that induction and learning opportunities can be tailored to Directors committee memberships, as well as the Boards specific areas of focus.
This approach also ensures a coordinated process in relation to succession planning, Board renewal, training and development and committee composition, which are all relevant to the Nomination and Governance Committees role in securing the supply of talent to the Board.
BHP Annual Report 2018 109 2.10 Independence The Board is committed to ensuring a majority of Directors A specific instance is Malcolm Broomhead, who on 1 January is independent.
The Board considers that all of the current 2016 was appointed Chairman of Orica Limited a company with Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, which BHP has commercial dealings.
Orica provides commercial are independent.
explosives, blasting systems and mineral processing chemicals and services to the mining and resources industry, among others.
Process to determine independence At the time of Mr Broomheads appointment to the Board of Orica, The Board has adopted a policy which it uses to determine the the BHP Board assessed the relationship between BHP and Orica independence of its Directors.
This determination is carried out and determined and remains satisfied that Mr Broomhead is able upon appointment, annually and at any other time where the to apply objective, unfettered and independent judgement and changed circumstances of a Director warrant reconsideration.
to act in the best interests of BHP.
A copy of the policy on Independence of Directors is available Transactions during FY2018 that amounted to related party online at bhp.
com governance transactions with Directors or Director-related entities under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are outlined Under the policy, an independent Director is one who is: in note 30 Related party transactions in section 5. independent of management and any business or other Executive Director relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise The Executive Director, Andrew Mackenzie, is not considered of objective, unfettered or independent judgement by the independent because of his executive responsibilities.
Mr Mackenzie Director or the Directors ability to act in the best interests does not hold directorships in any other company included in the of the BHP Billiton Group.
Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent but is affected by circumstances that appear relevant to the Conflicts of interest Boards assessment of independence, the Board has undertaken The UK Companies Act 2006 requires that BHP Directors avoid to explain the reasons why it reached its conclusion.
In applying a situation where they have or can have an unauthorised direct the independence test, the Board considers relationships with or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated the Groups interests, unless approved by non-interested Directors.
companies and other parties with whom BHP transacts business In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006, BHP Billiton Plcs against pre-determined materiality thresholds, all of which are Articles of Association allow the Directors to authorise conflicts set out in the policy.
and potential conflicts where appropriate.
A procedure operates to ensure the disclosure of conflicts and for the consideration and, Tenure if appropriate, the authorisation of those conflicts by non-conflicted As at the end of the year under review, only Wayne Murdy, Directors.
The Nomination and Governance Committee supports who was appointed on 18 June 2009, had served on the Board the Board in this process by reviewing requests from Directors for for more than nine years.
As set out above, Wayne Murdy has authorisation of situations of actual or potential conflict and making decided to retire from the Board after the 2018 AGMs.
recommendations to the Board, and by regularly reviewing any situations of actual or potential conflict that have previously been Relationships and associations authorised by the Board, and making recommendations regarding Lindsay Maxsted was the CEO of KPMG in Australia from 2001 whether the authorisation remains appropriate.
The Board believes this prior relationship with KPMG in accordance with Australian law, if a situation arises for does not materially interfere with Mr Maxsteds exercise of consideration in which a Director has a material personal interest, objective, unfettered or independent judgement, or his ability the affected Director takes no part in decision-making unless to act in the best interests of BHP.
The Board has determined, authorised by non-interested Directors.
Provisions for Directors consistent with its policy on the independence of Directors, interests are set out in the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited.
that Mr Maxsted is independent.
The Board notes in particular that: at the time of his appointment to the Board, more than three years had elapsed since Mr Maxsteds retirement from KPMG.
The Director independence rules and guidelines that apply to the Group which are a combination of Australian, UK and US rules and guidelines all use three years as the benchmark cooling off period for former audit firm partners: Mr Maxsted has no financial e. g. pension, retainer or advisory fee or consulting arrangements with KPMG: Mr Maxsted was not part of the KPMG audit practice after 1980, and while at KPMG was not in any way involved in, or able to influence, any audit activity associated with BHP.
The Board believes Mr Maxsteds financial acumen and extensive experience in the corporate restructuring field to be important in the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
His membership of the Board and Chairmanship of the Risk and Audit Committee are considered by the Board to be appropriate and desirable.
Some of the Directors hold, or have previously held, positions in companies with which BHP has commercial relationships.
Those positions and companies are set out in the Director profiles in section 2.2.
The Board has assessed all of the relationships between the Group and companies in which Directors hold or held positions, and has concluded that in all cases the relationships do not interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement or their ability to act in the best interests of BHP.
110 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 2.11 Board evaluation The Board is committed to transparency in assessing the The evaluation considers the balance of skills, experience, performance of Directors.
The Board conducts regular evaluations independence and knowledge of the Group and the Board, of its performance, the performance of its committees, the its overall diversity, including gender diversity, and how the Chairman, individual Directors and the governance processes that Board works together as a unit.
The Board evaluation process comprises both assessment and review, as summarised in the diagram below.
Evaluation process 2 Assessment Review Year one: Year two: Each year, review of: Committee and Whole Board Directors for re-election.
Board and committees for compliance with the 1 2 assessment.
Board Governance Document and committee terms of reference.
May be internally or externally facilitated assessment.
Our approach is to conduct an externally facilitated assessment of the Board or Directors and committees at least every three years.
Directors provide anonymous feedback on their peers Assessments conducted in respect of FY2018 performance and individual contributions to the Board, which During FY2018, the Board commenced an assessment of the is passed on to the relevant Director via the Chairman.
In respect Board committees against their terms of reference, and an internal of the Chairmans performance, feedback is provided directly assessment of the individual directors.
These assessments were to the Senior Independent Director.
External independent completed in early FY2019 and have been discussed with the Board.
advisers are engaged to assist with these processes, as necessary.
JCA Group during FY2016 and Heidrick & Struggles Leadership The involvement of an independent third party has assisted in Assessment in previous years have provided services in respect the evaluation processes being rigorous and fair, and ensuring of Director performance assessments.
Both companies have continuous improvement in the operation of the Board and also conducted external searches and assisted in the identification committees, as well as the contributions of individual Directors.
of potential candidates for the Board as set out in section 2.13.3.
Director assessment In both cases, the search and assessment services operate The assessment of individual Directors focuses on the contribution independently and neither firm has any other connection with BHP.
of the Director to the work of the Board and the expectations Board committee assessment of Directors as specified in the Groups governance framework.
The Board committee assessment required each committee The performance of individual Directors is assessed against member to consider the relevant committees compliance a range of criteria, including the ability of the Director to: with its respective terms of reference.
The Board considered focus on creating long-term shareholder value: its compliance with the Board Governance Document.
contribute to the development of strategy: The outcomes of the assessment for each committee are set understand the major risks affecting BHP: out in the relevant section below.
provide clear direction to management: Director review contribute to Board effectiveness: contribute to discussions relating to organisational culture An internal assessment of Directors performance was conducted and behaviour: in respect of FY2018.
The assessments were undertaken with the assistance of an external service provider Lintstock Limited commit the time required to fulfil the role and perform their to aid collation, review and produce a report of the findings.
responsibilities effectively: As in FY2017, the focus was on consistently taking the perspective listen to and respect the ideas of fellow Directors and members of creating shareholder value, contributing to Board cohesion of management.
and effective relationships with fellow Directors, and committing Board effectiveness the time required to fulfil their role and effectively perform their The effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of its committees responsibilities.
Directors were specifically asked to comment is assessed against the accountabilities set out in the Board on areas where their fellow directors contribute the greatest Governance Document and each committees terms of reference.
value and on potential areas for development.
Feedback on Matters considered in evaluations include: the performance of the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director was also sought.
the effectiveness of discussion and debate at Board and committee meetings: The overall findings were presented to the Board and discussed.
the effectiveness of the Boards and committees processes The outcomes of the review supported the Boards decision and relationship with management: to endorse all Directors standing for re-election.
the quality and timeliness of meeting agendas, Board and committee papers and secretariat support: the composition of the Board and each committee, focusing on the blend of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group and its diversity, including geographic location, nationality and gender.
The process is managed by the Chairman, with feedback on the Chairmans performance being provided to him by the Senior Independent Director.
For information on the performance review process for executives, refer to section 2.15.
BHP Annual Report 2018 111 Committee assessment in action Nomination and Governance additional emphasis on the end-to-end process for identifying and assessing potential A number of improvements were agreed and implemented Board candidates, the skills and experience matrix and the following the FY2017 committee assessment.
The key areas ongoing process for regular review, engagement with potential of focus agreed for each committee in FY2018 were: Non-executive Director candidates, and a review of overall Risk and Audit streamlining agenda items and providing Committee composition and succession: additional background and context to certain matters as relevant Sustainability background briefings in advance of deep dives during the year: into material risks and further enhancements to the Director Remuneration prioritising issues for the Committee, more induction and training programs.
regular briefings about the external environment and a deeper focus on trends: 2.12 Board meetings and attendance The Board meets as often as is appropriate to fulfil its role.
Members of the Executive Leadership Team and other members Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to BHP to perform of senior management attended meetings of the Board by invitation.
their responsibilities effectively, including adequate time to prepare Attendance at Board and standing Board committee meetings for Board meetings.
During the reporting year, the Board met during FY2018 is set out in the table below.
11 times, with five of those meetings held in Australia, four in the United Kingdom, one in New York and one in Singapore.
Regularly scheduled Board meetings generally run over two days including committee meetings and Director training and development sessions.
Board and Board Committee attendance in FY2018 Nomination and Tenure as Board Risk and Audit Governance Remuneration Sustainability at 30 June 2018 AB AB AB AB AB Terry Bowen 6 6 6 6 9 months Malcolm Brinded 6 6 1 1 2 2 Retired on 18 October 2017 Malcolm Broomhead 11 11 4 4 4 4 4 4 8 years 3 months 1 Anita Frew 11 10 10 10 1 1 2 years 10 months 2 Carolyn Hewson 11 9 8 7 2 2 8 years 3 months Grant King 4 4 1 1 Retired on 31 August 2017 Andrew Mackenzie 11 11 5 years 3 months Ken MacKenzie 11 11 5 5 4 4 1 year 10 months Lindsay Maxsted 11 11 10 10 7 years 3 months John Mogford 6 6 2 2 9 months 3 Wayne Murdy 11 10 10 10 2 2 9 years Jac Nasser 4 4 3 3 Retired on 31 August 2017 Shriti Vadera 11 11 8 8 2 2 7 years 5 months Column A: Scheduled indicates the number of scheduled and ad-hoc meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or committee.
Column B: Attended indicates the number of scheduled and ad-hoc meetings attended by the Director during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or committee.
The following Directors were not able to attend certain meetings: 1 Ms Frew was not able to attend the meeting on 1 August due to ill health.
2 Ms Hewson was unable to attend the meeting on 20 February and 10 April due to a family illness.
3 Mr Murdy was unable to attend the meeting on 7 September due to ill health.
2.13 Board committees The Board has established committees to assist it in exercising its are made available to all members of the Board.
Subject to authority, including monitoring the performance of BHP to gain appropriate controls and the overriding scrutiny of the Board, assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate Committee Chairmen are free to use whatever resources they purpose within the limits imposed by the Board.
consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
Each of the permanent committees has terms of reference under Reports from each of the committees follow.
which authority is delegated by the Board.
The terms of reference for each committee are available Group Governance provides secretariat services for each of the online at bhp.
Committee meeting agendas, papers and minutes 112 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Role and focus For more information about our approach to risk management, refer to sections 1.4.
The role of the Risk and Audit Committee RAC is to assist the Board in monitoring the decisions and actions of the The RAC met 10 times during FY2018.
Information on meeting CEO and the Group and to gain assurance that progress is being made towards achieving the corporate purpose within attendance by Committee members is included in the table below and information on Committee members qualifications the limits imposed by the Board, as set out in the Board Governance Document.
In addition to the regular business of the year, the Committee The RAC discharges its responsibilities by overseeing: 2 discussed matters including non-operated minerals joint the integrity of BHPs Financial Statements and Annual Report: venture governance, Onshore US carrying values, US tax reform the appointment, performance and remuneration of the and the separation of the Risk function from Internal Audit.
External Auditor and integrity of the external audit process: Further information is set out in the diagram below.
The viability the effectiveness of the systems of risk management and statement and the Boards confirmation that it has carried out internal control: a robust risk assessment are at section 1.6.
Statements relating the plans, performance, objectivity and leadership of to tendering of the external audit contract, significant matters the Internal Audit function and the integrity of the internal relating to the Financial Statements and the process for audit process: evaluating the External Auditor are set out below.
In addition to capital management capital structure and funding, those items of business, the RAC spent significant time dealing and capital management planning and initiatives and with matters relating to Samarco.
For more information on other matters.
Risk and Audit Committee members during the year Name Independent Status Attendance 1 Lindsay Maxsted Chairman Yes Member for whole period 10 10 Terry Bowen Yes Member from 1 November 2017 6 6 Malcolm Broomhead Yes Member until 31 October 2017 4 4 Anita Frew Yes Member for whole period 10 10 Wayne Murdy Yes Member for whole period 10 10 1 Mr Maxsted is the Committees financial expert nominated by the Board.
Committee activities in FY2018 Integrity of Financial Statements and funding matters Other governance matters Accounting matters for consideration, materiality limits, half-year Induction, training and development program and full-year results Board committee procedures, including closed sessions SOX compliance, reserves and resources Performance and leadership of the internal audit function Capital Allocation Framework Non-operated minerals joint venture governance Funding update, net debt target, Euro medium-term note update New country entry Philippines and US Form F-3 shelf registration statement update Cybersecurity US tax reform Global Data Protections Regulation External auditor and integrity of the audit process Business Risk and Audit Committees External audit report Business Risk and Audit Committees, covering each asset External audit fees group, assist management in providing the information Management and external auditor closed sessions necessary to allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities.
They are management committees and perform an important Audit plan, review of performance and quality of service monitoring function in the overall governance of BHP.
Business RAC meetings The meetings take place annually as part of our financial Taxation governance framework.
Audit tender As management committees, the responsible member of the Executive Leadership Team participates, but the committee Effectiveness of systems of internal control and risk management is chaired by a member of the RAC.
Each committee also Creation of a separate Risk function includes the Group Financial Controller, the Chief Risk Officer Group risk profile and the Group Assurance Officer.
Regular reports on progress against the internal audit plan Significant operational and risk matters raised at Business Matters of note rising from internal audits RAC meetings are reported to the RAC by management.
Internal assessments of performance of the internal audit function Fraud and misappropriation Risk management and internal control review Ethics and compliance Insurance BHP Annual Report 2018 113 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued Activities undertaken by RAC during FY2018 Onshore US divestment The Committee examined managements review of impairment Fair, balanced and understandable triggers and potential impairment charges or reversals for the Directors are required to confirm that they consider the Groups Onshore US assets throughout the year.
While the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and divestment process was underway, prior to the receipt of bids, understandable and provides the information necessary considerations were consistent with the approach to the for shareholders to assess BHPs position, performance, Groups other long-term assets as presented below.
Following the receipt of bids, specific consideration was given BHP has a substantial governance framework in place for the to the bids received and, subsequently, the agreements Annual Report.
This includes management representation reached for the disposal of the Onshore US assets.
letters, certifications, RAC oversight of the Financial Statements and a range of other financial governance procedures focused The Committee concurred with managements conclusion on the financial section of the Annual Report, together with that the impairment charges, and the timing of their recognition, verification procedures for the narrative reporting section in respect of the Groups Onshore US assets were appropriate.
The Committee reviewed the Financial Statement impacts The RAC advises the Board on whether the Annual Report meets resulting from the announced divestment of the Groups the fair, balanced and understandable requirement.
The process Onshore US assets, including their classification and disclosure to support the giving of this confirmation involved the following: as assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
ensuring all individuals involved in the preparation of any part Conclusions from these reviews are reflected in note 26 of the Annual Report are briefed on the fair, balanced and Discontinued operations in section 5. understandable requirement through training sessions for Carrying value of long-term assets excluding Onshore US each content manager that detail the key attributes of fair, The assessment of carrying values of long-term assets uses balanced and understandable: a number of significant judgements and estimates.
employees who have been closely involved in the preparation of the Financial Statements review the entire narrative for The Committee examined managements review of impairment the fair, balanced and understandable requirement, and sign triggers and potential impairment charges or reversals.
Specific off an appropriate sub-certification: consideration was given to the most recent short, medium and key members of the team preparing the Annual Report long-term price forecasts, geological complexity, expected confirm they have taken the fair, balanced and understandable production volumes and mix, amended development plans, requirement into account and they have raised, with the operating and capital costs, discount rates and other market Annual Report project team, any concerns they have in indicators of fair value.
relation to meeting this requirement: The Committee concurred with managements conclusion on the Annual Report suite sub-certification incorporates a fair, significant impairments recognised and that no impairment balanced and understandable declaration: reversals were appropriate.
in relation to the requirement for the auditor to review parts Conclusions from these reviews are reflected in note 10 of the narrative report for consistency with the audited Property, plant and equipment in section 5.
Financial Statements, asking the External Auditor to raise any issues of inconsistency at an early stage.
Samarco dam failure On 5 November 2015, the Samarco Minerao S. A Samarco As a result of the process outlined above, the RAC, and iron ore operation in Minas Gerais, Brazil experienced a tailings then the Directors, were able to confirm their view that BHPs dam failure that resulted in a release of mine tailings, flooding Annual Report 2018 taken as a whole is fair, balanced and the community of Bento Rodrigues and impacting other understandable.
For the Boards statement on the Annual communities downstream.
Samarco is jointly owned by BHP Report, refer to the Directors Report in section 4.
Billiton Brasil Limitada BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale S. A. Vale.
Integrity of Financial Statements BHP Billiton Brasils 50 per cent interest in Samarco is accounted The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of the for as an equity accounted joint venture investment.
The RAC evaluates and makes Samarcos provisions and contingent liabilities recommendations to the Board about the appropriateness The Committee reviewed updates to matters relating to the of accounting policies and practices, areas of judgement, Samarco dam failure, including developments on existing compliance with accounting standards, stock exchange and new legal proceedings and changes to the estimated and legal requirements and the results of the external audit.
It reviews the half-yearly and annual Financial Statements and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions BHP Billiton Brasil has recognised a share of additional losses including formal adoption of the Financial Statements and recorded by Samarco during the year ended 30 June 2018. reports the Board should consider in order to maintain the Potential direct financial impacts to BHP Billiton Brasil integrity of the Financial Statements.
The Committee considered: For the FY2018 full-year and the half-year, the CEO and CFO the accounting implications of funding provided to the have certified that BHPs financial records have been properly Renova Foundation and Samarco to support activities maintained and that the FY2018 Financial Statements present under the Framework Agreement, carry out remediation a true and fair view, in all material respects, of our financial and stabilisation work and support Samarcos operations: condition and operating results and are in accordance with changes to the estimated cost of remediation and accounting standards and applicable regulatory requirements.
compensation Programs under the Framework Agreement: Significant issues developments in existing and new legal proceedings, including the impact of the Governance Agreement, entered In addition to the Groups key judgements and estimates into on 25 June 2018, on the Samarco dam failure provision disclosed throughout the FY2018 Financial Statements, the and related disclosures: Committee also considered the following significant issues the provisions recognised and contingent liabilities disclosed relating to financial reporting: by BHP Billiton Brasil or other BHP entities.
114 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Based on currently available information, the Committee Board.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the concluded that the accounting for the equity investment RACs capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment in Samarco, the provision recognised by BHP Billiton Brasil as auditor.
and contingent liabilities disclosed in the Groups Financial The lead audit engagement partners in both Australia and the Statements are appropriate.
United Kingdom have been rotated every five years.
The current Australian audit engagement partner was appointed at the start For further information refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure in section 5. of FY2015.
The current UK audit engagement partner took formal responsibility at the start of FY2018 following a transition period.
Tax and royalty liabilities The Group is subject to a range of tax and royalty matters across Audit tender 2 many jurisdictions.
The Committee considered updates on Consistent with the UK and EU requirements in regard to audit changes to the wider tax landscape, estimates and judgements firm tender and rotation, during the March 2017 quarter the supporting the measurement and disclosure of tax and royalty Committee commenced a tender process for the appointment provisions and contingent liabilities including the following: of a new External Auditor, as described on page 113 of the changes in foreign tax law.
In FY2018, the Committee Annual Report 2017.
In August 2017, the Board announced that considered the impact of US tax reform, including the it had selected EY, with the planned commencement date re-measurement of deferred tax balances.
This provides adequate time for EY to meet also concurred with managements conclusion that the all relevant independence criteria before commencement impact of US tax reform be disclosed as an exceptional item: of this appointment.
tax risks including transfer pricing risks arising from the Compliance with the Competition and Markets Authority Order Groups cross-border operations and transactions: BHP confirms that during FY2018 it was in compliance settlement of disputed royalty assessments issued by with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large the Queensland Office of State Revenue to certain Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Group companies in relation to its share of the BHP Billiton Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Mitsubishi Alliance BMA : and Order 2014. other matters where uncertainty exists in the application of the law.
Evaluation of External Auditor and external audit process The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor The Committee concluded that provisions recognised during its term of appointment against specified criteria, and contingent liabilities disclosed for these matters were including delivering value to shareholders and BHP, and appropriate considering the range of possible outcomes, also assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process.
currently available information and legal advice obtained.
It does so through a range of means: For further information refer to notes 5 Income tax expense the Committee considers the External Audit Plan, in particular and 32 Contingent liabilities in section 5. to gain assurance that it is tailored to reflect changes in circumstances from the prior year: Closure and rehabilitation provisions throughout the year, the Committee meets with the audit Determining the closure and rehabilitation provision is a partners, particularly the lead Australian and UK audit complex area requiring significant judgement and estimates, engagement partners, without management present: particularly given the timing and quantum of future costs, the following the completion of the audit, the Committee unique nature of each site and the long timescales involved.
considers the quality of the External Auditors performance The Committee considered the various changes in estimates drawing on survey results.
The survey is based on a two-way for closure and rehabilitation provisions recognised during the feedback model where the BHP and KPMG teams assess year.
Consideration was given to the results of the most recently each other against a range of criteria.
The criteria against completed surveying data, current cost estimates and which the BHP team evaluates KPMGs performance include appropriate inclusion of contingency in cost estimates to allow ethics and integrity, insight, service quality, communication for both known and residual risks.
The Committee concluded and reporting, and responsiveness: that the assumptions and inputs for closure and rehabilitation reviewing the terms of engagement of the External Auditor: cost estimates were reasonable and the related provisions discussing with the audit engagement partners the skills recorded were appropriate.
and experience of the broader audit team: For further information, refer to note 13 Closure and reviewing audit quality inspection reports on KPMG published rehabilitation provisions in section 5. by the UK Financial Reporting Council in considering the effectiveness of the audit.
The RAC discussed with KPMG Impact of new accounting standards the findings of the Audit Quality Review conducted by the UKs Financial Reporting Council.
The Committee is satisfied The Committee considered and approved accounting policy that the findings of the Audit Quality Review have been changes resulting from the application of new standards incorporated into KPMGs audit processes as they relate commencing 1 July 2018, including IFRS 9 AASB 9 Financial to BHP: Instruments and IFRS 15 AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
overseeing and approving where relevant non-audit services as described below.
The Committee reviewed managements analysis of the adoption implications for the Group and concurred with its The RAC also reviews the integrity, independence and recommendations.
The Committee continued to consider objectivity of the External Auditor and assesses whether there the impact of new and emerging accounting standards and is any element of the relationship that impairs, or appears regulatory requirements commencing in future periods.
to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence.
This review includes: For further information, refer to note 38 New and amended confirming the External Auditor is, in its judgement, accounting standards and interpretations in section 5. independent of BHP: obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all External Auditor relationships between the External Auditor and BHP: The RAC manages the relationship with the External Auditor monitoring the number of former employees of the External on behalf of the Board.
It considers the reappointment of the Auditor currently employed in senior positions within BHP: External Auditor each year, as well as remuneration and other considering the various relationships between BHP and terms of engagement and makes a recommendation to the the External Auditor: BHP Annual Report 2018 115 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued determining whether the compensation of individuals include a list of certain pre-approved services, the use of the employed by the External Auditor who conduct the audit External Auditor to perform such services will always be subject is tied to the provision of non-audit services: to our overriding governance practices as articulated in the policy.
reviewing the economic importance of BHP to the An exception can be made to the policy where it is in BHPs External Auditor.
interests and appropriate arrangements are put in place to ensure the integrity and independence of the External Auditor.
The External Auditor also certifies its independence to the RAC.
Any such exception requires the specific prior approval of the Non-audit services RAC and must be reported to the Board.
No exceptions were Although the External Auditor does provide some non-audit approved during the year ended 30 June 2018. services, the objectivity and independence of the External In addition, the RAC approved no services during the Auditor are safeguarded through restrictions on the provision year ended 30 June 2018 pursuant to paragraph c 7 i C of these services.
For example, certain types of non-audit of Rule 2-01 of SEC Regulation S-X provision of services services may be undertaken by the External Auditor only other than audit.
with the prior approval of the RAC as described below, while other services may not be undertaken at all, including Fees paid to BHPs External Auditor during FY2018 for audit services where the External Auditor: and other services were US$23.9 million, of which 75 per cent comprised audit fees, 22 per cent related to legislative may be required to audit its own work: requirements including US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as participates in activities that would normally be undertaken amended SOX and three per cent was for other services.
by management: Details of the fees paid are set out in note 35 Auditors is remunerated through a success fee structure: remuneration in section 5. acts in an advocacy role for BHP.
Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that the The RAC has adopted a policy entitled Provision of Audit External Auditor is independent and that the incoming auditor and Other Services by the External Auditor covering the is also independent.
RACs pre-approval policies and procedures to maintain the independence of the External Auditor.
Risk function During FY2017, a review and benchmarking of the design Our policy on Provision of Audit and Other Services of BHPs Risk Management Framework to industry best practice by the External Auditor is available online at and standards found that the Framework meets applicable bhp.
legal and governance requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.
In addition to audit services, the External Auditor is permitted The review confirmed that the Group has established a strong to provide other non-audit services that are not, and are not foundation in risk management and that the fundamental perceived to be, in conflict with the role of the External Auditor.
requirements of a risk management framework are in place.
In accordance with the requirements of the Exchange Act and The review also identified that BHPs risk approach could be guidance contained in Public Company Accounting Oversight enhanced by creating a dedicated global Risk function with full Board PCAOB Release 2004-001, certain specific activities responsibility for the risk framework and end-to-end process.
are listed in our detailed policy that have been pre-approved This new structure has been implemented, with the new by the RAC.
function being led by a Chief Risk Officer.
Risk professionals The categories of pre-approved services are as follows: are co-located with the assets and functions.
The new Risk Audit and audit-related services work that constitutes the function develops policies, procedures, tools, training materials agreed scope of the statutory audit and includes the statutory and best practice methodologies, providing expert advice on audits of BHP and its entities including interim reviews.
the risk management framework with a focus on continuous This category also includes work that is reasonably related improvement against a rapidly changing external environment.
to the performance of an audit or review and is a logical extension of the audit or review scope.
The RAC monitors the Additional information about the effectiveness of risk audit services engagements and if necessary approves any management is set out below.
changes in terms and conditions resulting from changes Internal Audit in audit scope, Group structure or other relevant events.
The Internal Audit function is carried out by Internal Audit and Other assurance services work that is outside the required Advisory IAA.
The role of IAA is to provide assurance as to scope of the statutory audit but is consistent with the role whether risk management, internal control and governance of the external statutory auditor, is of an assurance or processes are adequate and functioning.
The Internal Audit compliance nature and is work the External Auditor must function is independent of the External Auditor.
The RAC or is best placed to undertake.
evaluates and, if thought fit, approves the terms of reference Other services work of an advisory nature that does not of IAA, the staffing levels and its scope of work to ensure it is compromise the independence of the External Auditor.
appropriate in light of the key risks we face.
It also reviews and approves the annual internal audit plan and monitors and Activities not listed specifically are therefore not pre-approved and must be approved by the RAC prior to engagement, reviews the overall effectiveness of the internal audit activities.
regardless of the dollar value involved.
Additionally, any The RAC also approves the appointment and dismissal of the engagement for other services with a value over US$100,000, Group Assurance Officer and assesses his or her performance, even if listed as a pre-approved service, requires the approval independence and objectivity.
The position was held throughout of the RAC.
All engagements for other services whether the year by Kirsty Wallace.
Ms Wallace reported directly to the pre-approved or not and regardless of the dollar value RAC.
During the period, functional oversight of IAA was involved are reported quarterly to the RAC.
provided by the Chief External Affairs Officer.
While not specifically prohibited by BHPs policy, any proposed Eff ectiveness of systems of internal control non-audit engagement of the External Auditor relating to and risk management RAC and Board internal control such as a review of internal controls or In delegating authority to the CEO, the Board has established assistance with implementing the regulatory requirements, CEO limits set out in the Board Governance Document.
Limits including those of the Exchange Act requires specific prior on the CEOs authority require the CEO to ensure there is approval from the RAC.
With the exception of the external audit a system of control in place for identifying and managing risk of BHPs Financial Statements, any engagement identified that in BHP.
Through the RAC, the Directors review the systems contains an internal control-related element is not considered to that have been established for this purpose and regularly be pre-approved.
In addition, while the categories shown above review their effectiveness.
These reviews include assessing 116 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information whether processes continue to meet evolving external Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial governance requirements.
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and, even when determined to be effective, can only provide reasonable The RAC oversees and reviews the internal controls and risk assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and management systems.
In undertaking this role, the RAC reviews presentation.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness the following: to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become procedures for identifying material risks and controlling inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree their impact on the Group, the operational effectiveness of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
of these procedures: Under the supervision and with the participation of our processes and systems for managing budgeting, forecasting management, including our CEO and CFO, the effectiveness and financial reporting: of BHPs internal control over financial reporting has been 2 the Groups strategy and standards in respect of insurance: evaluated based on the framework and criteria established in the Groups standards and procedures in respect of reporting Internal Controls Integrated Framework 2013, issued by the of reserves and resources: Committee of the Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway the Groups standards and procedures in respect of the Commission COSO.
Based on this evaluation, management closure and rehabilitation provision: has concluded that internal control over financial reporting was standards and practices for detecting, reporting and effective as at 30 June 2018.
There were no material weaknesses preventing fraud, serious breaches of business conduct, in BHPs internal controls over financial reporting identified and whistle-blowing procedures supporting reporting by management as at 30 June 2018. to the Committee: BHP has engaged our independent registered public accounting procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory firms, KPMG and KPMG LLP, to issue an audit report on our and legal requirements: internal control over financial reporting for inclusion in the arrangements for the protection of the Groups information Financial Statements section of the Annual Report and the and data systems and other non-physical assets: Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
operational effectiveness of the Business RAC structures: There have been no changes in our internal control over overseeing the adequacy of the internal controls and financial reporting during FY2018 that have materially affected, allocation of responsibilities for monitoring internal or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control financial controls.
For more information on our approach to risk management, refer The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the Financial to sections 1.4.
4 includes a description Statements for the full-year and half-year are founded on of the material risks that could affect BHP, including, but not a sound system of risk management and internal control limited to, economic, environment and social sustainability risks and the system is operating efficiently and effectively.
to which the Group has a material exposure.
5 also During FY2018, the RAC reviewed our compliance with provides an explanation of how those risks are managed.
the obligations imposed by SOX, including evaluating and As previously set out, during FY2017, benchmarking of the documenting internal controls as required by section 404 design of BHPs Risk Management Framework to industry best of SOX.
practice and standards found that the Framework meets its Managements assessment of disclosure controls legal and governance requirements in all relevant jurisdictions, and procedures and continues to be sound.
Nonetheless, further refinements were made to the Framework, including the establishment Management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, of a separate Risk function.
In addition, the Board conducted performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design reviews of the effectiveness of BHPs systems of risk management and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for the financial year and up to the date as at 30 June 2018.
Disclosure controls and procedures are of this Annual Report in accordance with the UK Corporate designed to provide reasonable assurance that the material Governance Code, the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and by BHP, including in the reports that it files or submits the Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarised published by the Australian Securities Exchange ASX Corporate and reported on a timely basis and that such information Governance Council ASX Principles and Recommendations.
is accumulated and communicated to BHPs management, These risk management and internal control reviews covered including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely business conduct, compliance, financial, operational and decisions regarding required disclosure.
evaluation, management, including the CEO and CFO, has concluded that as at 30 June 2018, our disclosure During FY2018, management presented an assessment of the controls and procedures are effective in providing that material business risks facing BHP and the level of effectiveness reasonable assurance.
of risk management over the material business risks.
The reviews were overseen by the RAC, with findings and recommendations There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system reported to the Board.
In addition to considering key risks facing of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility BHP, the Board received an assessment of the effectiveness of of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the internal controls over key risks identified through the work of the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure Board committees.
controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
The Board is satisfied with the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, management was required to apply Managements assessment of internal control its judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of over financial reporting possible controls and procedures.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15 f and Rule 15d-15 f under the Exchange Act.
Committee assessment Following the committee assessment, the RAC was satisfied that it had continued to meet its terms of reference in FY2018.
The terms of reference were updated during the year to reflect the creation of a separate Risk function and certain minor administrative changes.
The terms of reference for the RAC are available online at bhp.
BHP Annual Report 2018 117 2.13.2 Remuneration Committee Report Role and focus compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with remuneration matters: The role of the Remuneration Committee is to assist the Board the review, at least annually, of remuneration by gender.
in overseeing: the remuneration policy and its specific application to the The Sustainability Committee and the Risk and Audit Committee CEO and other Key Management Personnel those who have assist the Remuneration Committee in determining appropriate authority and responsibility for planning, directing and HSEC and financial metrics, respectively, to be included controlling the activities of the Group directly or indirectly, in senior executive scorecards and in assessing performance and its general application to all employees: against those measures.
the adoption of annual and longer-term incentive plans: The Remuneration Committee met twice during FY2018 and the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and also considered some matters out of session.
Information approval of reward for other Key Management Personnel: on meeting attendance by Committee members is included the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, in the table below.
by giving guidance to the Chairman: For full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board, leaving entitlements: refer to the Remuneration Report in section 3. the preparation of the Remuneration Report for inclusion in the Annual Report: Remuneration Committee members during the year Name Independent Status Attendance Carolyn Hewson Chairman Yes Member for whole period 2 2 Malcolm Brinded Yes Member until 18 October 2017 1 1 Anita Frew Yes Member from 1 March 2018 1 1 Wayne Murdy Yes Member for whole period 2 2 Shriti Vadera Yes Member for whole period 2 2 Committee activities in FY2018 Remuneration policy review Remuneration of the KMP and the Board Link to strategy Remuneration of CEO and other Key Management Personnel Alignment between pay and performance KPIs, performance levels, award outcomes Long-Term Incentive Plan sector peer group review Chairman and Non-executive Director fees Other remuneration matters Other Shareplus, employee incentive outcomes Induction, training and development program Remuneration by gender Board committee procedures, including closed sessions Shareholder engagement Committee assessment Following the committee assessment, the Remuneration Committee was satisfied that it had continued to meet its terms of reference in FY2018.
Minor updates were made to the terms of reference during the year, largely to reflect administrative changes.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are available online at bhp.
2.13.3 Nomination and Governance Committee Report Role and focus the provision of appropriate training and development opportunities for Directors: The role of the Nomination and Governance Committee is to the independence of Non-executive Directors: assist the Board in ensuring that the Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge the responsibilities of a Director, the time required from Non-executive Directors: having regard to the highest standards of governance, the the assessment and, if appropriate, authorisation strategic direction of BHP and the diversity aspirations of the of situations of actual and potential conflict notified Board.
It does so by focusing on: by Directors: the succession planning process for the Board and its BHPs corporate governance practices.
committees, including the identification of suitable candidates For details on the Board succession planning process, for appointment to the Board taking into account the skills, refer to section 2.8. experience, independence and knowledge required on the Board, as well as the attributes required of potential Directors: The Nomination and Governance Committee met eight the succession planning process for the Chairman: times during FY2018.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee members is included in the table below.
the succession planning process for the CEO and In addition to the regular business of the year, the periodic evaluation of the process: Committee considered the appointments of Terry Bowen Board and Director performance evaluation, including and John Mogford as Non-executive Directors and the evaluation of Directors seeking re-election prior to their retirements of Grant King and Malcolm Brinded, as set endorsement by the Board as set out in sections 2.7 and 2.11: out in more detail below.
118 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Board changes of perspectives so that the Board oversees BHP effectively for shareholders.
Terry Bowen and John Mogford joined the Board on 1 October 2018.
Jac Nasser and Grant King retired from the Board on The Board believes that critical mass is important for diversity, 31 August 2017, and Malcolm Brinded retired from the Board and diversity of all types remains a priority as the Board on 18 October 2017.
Further details in respect of each of continues to be refreshed and renewed, as set out in section these appointments and retirements are set out in the Annual 2.8.
This is in line with our aspirational goal to achieve gender Report 2017. balance across our workforce and on our Board by FY2025.
We believe this will help create a more diverse, inclusive, Wayne Murdy has decided to retire from the Board after the empowered and connected workforce, underpinned by 2018 BHP Billiton Limited AGM.
Board policy on inclusion and diversity 2 Part of the Boards role is to consider and approve BHPs Our Charter and the Our Requirements for Human Resources measurable objectives for workforce diversity each financial standard guide management on all aspects of human resource year and to oversee our progress in achieving those objectives.
management, including inclusion and diversity.
Underpinning BHPs progress will continue to be disclosed in the Annual the Our Requirements standards and supporting the achievement Report, along with the proportion of women in our workforce, of diversity across BHP are principles and measurable objectives in senior management positions and on the Board.
For more that define our approach to diversity and our focus on creating information on inclusion and diversity at BHP, including our an inclusive work environment.
progress against our FY2018 measurable objectives and our The Board and management believe that many facets of employee profile more generally, refer to sections 1.7.
3. diversity are required in order to meet the corporate purpose External recruitment specialists as set out in section 2.8.
Diversity is a core consideration in The Committee retained the services of external recruitment ensuring the Board and its committees have the right blend specialists Heidrick & Struggles and JCA Group.
Nomination and Governance Committee members during the year Name Independent Status Attendance Ken MacKenzie Chairman Chairman of the Board Member from 1 September 2017 5 5 Jac Nasser Former Chairman of the Board Member until 31 August 2017 3 3 Malcolm Broomhead Yes Member from 1 October 2017 4 4 1 Carolyn Hewson Yes Member for whole period 7 8 Shriti Vadera Yes Member for whole period 8 8 1 Carolyn Hewson was unable to attend the meeting on 10 April due to a family illness.
Committee activities in FY2018 Succession planning processes Corporate governance practices Skills and experience matrix update Independence of Non-executive Directors Identification of suitable Non-executive Director candidates Authorisation of situations of actual or potential conflict Committee composition Corporate Governance Statement Board and committee succession Search firm review and tender Evaluation and training Other governance matters Board and Director performance evaluation Induction, training and development program Provision of appropriate training and development opportunities Board committee procedures, including closed sessions Induction Committee assessment Committee assessment Following the committee assessment, the Nomination and Governance Committee was satisfied that it had continued to meet its terms of reference in FY2018.
The terms of reference for the Nomination and Governance Committee are available online at bhp.
2.13.4 Sustainability Committee Report Role and focus the Sustainability Committee, which is responsible for assisting the Board in overseeing the adequacy of the The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board Groups HSEC Framework and HSEC Management System in its oversight of the Groups health, safety, environment among other things : and community HSEC performance and the adequacy of the HSEC Management System, established by management the Groups HSEC Framework, and in relation to various other in accordance with the CEOs delegated authority.
The HSEC governance responsibilities related to HSE and Community.
Management System provides the processes, resources, The Groups HSEC framework consists of: structures and performance standards for the identification, the CEO limits set out in the Board Governance Document.
management and reporting of HSEC risks and the The Board Governance Document establishes the remit of the investigation of any HSEC incidents: Board and delegates authority to the CEO, including in respect a robust and independent internal audit process overseen of the HSEC Management System, subject to CEO limits: by the RAC, in accordance with its terms of reference: BHP Annual Report 2018 119 2.13.4 Sustainability Committee Report continued independent advice on HSEC matters, which may be a range of topics, including social licence to operate, requested by the Board and its Committees where deemed corporate purpose and the Forums site visit to Port Hedland necessary in order to meet their respective obligations.
and engagement with Iron Ore employees and members of the Port Hedland community.
Our approach to sustainability is reflected in Our Charter, which defines our values, purpose and how we measure Members of the Sustainability Committee also visited a number success, and in our sustainability performance targets, of operated and non-operated sites during FY2018 as part of which define our public commitments to safety, health, a formal program of committee visits.
These included Olympic environment and community.
More information is available Dam, closed sites in Arizona and Samarco.
During these site in our Sustainability Report 2018. visits, Committee members received briefings on relevant HSEC matters and the management of material HSEC risks, A copy of the Sustainability Report is and met with key personnel.
These visits offer access to a available online at bhp.
diverse cross-section of the workforce from frontline through to the leadership team, including, where possible, risk and The Committee provides oversight of the preparation and control owners.
This provides Directors with a sense of the presentation of the Sustainability Report by management, culture and the risk management processes in place at each and reviewed and recommended to the Board the approval site.
Some of the visits, such as Samarco and closed sites, of the Report for publication.
The Sustainability Report identifies included engagement with local communities.
our targets for HSEC matters and our performance against In addition, as part of either the induction process or those targets.
Our targets rely on fact-based measurement Chairmans visits, members of the Committee also visited and quality data, and reflect a desire to move BHP to a position Petroleum in Houston, Marketing, Supply and Technology of industry leadership.
in Singapore and Western Australia Iron Ore.
The Sustainability Committee met four times during FY2018.
The Sustainability Committee continued to assist the Board Information on meeting attendance by Committee members in its oversight of HSEC issues and performance during is included in the table below.
For a summary of the main areas discussed, met with the Forum on Corporate Responsibility and discussed refer to the diagram below.
Sustainability Committee members during the year Name Independent Status Attendance 1 Malcolm Broomhead Chairman Yes Member for whole period 4 4 Malcolm Brinded Yes Member until 18 October 2017 2 2 Grant King Yes Member from 1 August 2017 until 1 1 31 August 2017 Ken MacKenzie Yes Member for whole period 4 4 John Mogford Yes Member from 1 November 2017 2 2 1 Malcolm Brinded was Chairman of the Committee until 18 October 2017.
Malcolm Broomhead assumed the role of Chairman with effect from 19 October 2017.
Committee activities in FY2018 Assurance and adequacy of HSEC framework and HSEC Compliance and reporting management system Compliance with HSEC legal and regulatory requirements Key HSEC risks, including process safety, security and high Updates on key legal and regulatory changes occupancy vehicles Sustainability Report, including consideration of processes Audit planning and reporting in relation to HSEC risks for preparation and assurance provided by KPMG and processes Rehabilitation update Other governance matters Fatality risk management project Contractor management Induction, training and development HSEC emerging trends Performance Site visits and site visit reports to Board Board committee procedures including closed sessions Performance of BHP in relation to HSEC matters Considering proposed HSEC KPIs for KMP scorecard Sustainable development governance and considering performance against such KPIs Our approach to HSEC and sustainable development Monitoring against the FY2018FY2022 HSEC performance targets governance is characterised by: Updates on Samarco remediation and Renova Foundation the Sustainability Committee assisting the Board in its Field leadership oversight of material HSEC matters and risks across BHP, Goonyella fatality ICAM and Permian Basin fatality ICAM including seeking continuous improvement and policy advocacy as applicable: Cerrejn non-operated joint venture fatality ICAM management having primary responsibility for the design and Performance and key issues on sustainable development and community relations, including community issues update implementation of an effective HSEC Management System: Water stewardship strategy update management having accountability for HSEC performance: Global priority on social licence the HSE function and Community sub-function providing Non-operated joint venture HSE risk management update advice and guidance directly to the Sustainability Committee Climate change updates and the Board: the Board, Sustainability Committee and management seeking input and insight from external experts, such as the BHP Forum on Corporate Responsibility: and clear links between executive remuneration and HSEC performance.
120 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information The key areas of focus for the Committee, management and towards community development programs and administrative the HSE function and Community sub-function are outlined costs.
This was the equivalent of not less than one per cent in the Sustainability Report 2018. of our pre-tax profit, calculated on the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit.
Our social investment performance Climate change in FY2018 saw BHP deliver projects with a continued focus Climate change is treated as a Board-level governance issue, on good governance, human capability and social inclusion with the Sustainability Committee playing a key supporting role.
The total investment of US$77.05 million The Committee work during FY2018 included receiving updates includes US$7.16 million on community contributions at our on BHPs climate change target, carbon capture and storage non-operated joint ventures, and US$1.54 million to facilitate investment and advocacy, low emissions technology, portfolio the operation of the BHP Billiton Foundation.
analysis and disclosure, advocacy and positioning, climate risks 2 HSEC matters and remuneration and potential implications for BHP, including physical risks and transition risks.
In addition, the Committee received an update In order to link HSEC matters to remuneration, 25 per cent on product stewardship and Scope 3 emissions, both of which of the short-term incentive opportunity for Key Management are of major interest to investors.
The Product stewardship Personnel was based on HSEC performance during FY2018.
project aims to improve identification, assessment and The Sustainability Committee assists the Remuneration management of climate change risks in our value chain and Committee in determining appropriate HSEC metrics to be encompasses the measurement and disclosure of Scope 3 included in the KMP scorecard and also assists in relation to emissions and identification of opportunities to work with our assessment of performance against those measures.
The Board customers to reduce their emissions.
For more information on believes this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous our climate change position and how we consider the impacts and balanced, and provides an appropriate, objective and on our portfolio, refer to section 1.9.
For more information on the metrics and their assessment, refer Social investment to the Remuneration Report in section 3.
We also continued to monitor our progress in relation to our social investment and met our target for investments in community programs, with such investments comprising cash Committee assessment Following the committee assessment, the Sustainability Committee was satisfied that it had continued to meet its terms of reference in FY2018.
The terms of reference for the Sustainability Committee are available online at bhp.
Composition 2.13.5 Capital Allocation Working Group The Working Group consisted of seven members: Malcolm The processes in place for submission of capital expenditure Broomhead Working Group Chairman, the Chairman of the proposals to the Board and for subsequent monitoring and Board, Lindsay Maxsted, Terry Bowen, the Chief Executive Officer, evaluation of approved projects are kept under review.
Over the the Chief Financial Officer and the President, Minerals Americas.
past four years, the amount of capital required annually by the Given the terms of reference, members of senior management, Group has been reduced from over US$20 billion in FY2013 including the Group Portfolio & Strategy Development Officer to less than US$8 billion in FY2019 and FY2020.
and the Group Company Secretary, supported the Working Group and attended meetings.
The Chairman of the Working Group Although our processes are sound, in line with our approach of provided a report to the Board following each meeting of the ongoing improvement, we established a Capital Allocation Working Working Group.
With the review now completed and enhancements Group in FY2018 to assist the Board in considering the following: approved by the Board and implemented, the Working Group has the process and requirements for the presentation of capital been disbanded.
expenditure decisions to the Board Board Capital Process : and a capital expenditure monitoring and evaluation framework.
Enhancements Enhancements implemented include: The objectives of the Board Capital Process include improving the Boards understanding of capital expenditure proposals the approach to prioritisation and comparison of capital as they are developed, the variables, changes to metrics and proposals and transactions in the portfolio: scenarios that may affect the value of capital expenditure the Board receiving additional and more project-specific and proposals or the risk profile, and enabling the Board to assess market outlook information earlier in the study phases, in order these proposals within the context of the Capital Allocation to understand the project early in the process and provide Framework.
These improvements are designed to facilitate feedback, as well as information concerning changes in the more effective and informed decision-making.
risk and reward profile as the project progresses: the content in relation to the reporting to the Board on the performance of capital projects: the portfolio and project metrics used by the Board in assessing capital expenditure proposals: additional reporting in relation to all capital expenditure, and enhancements to reporting on Post Investment Reviews.
BHP Annual Report 2018 121 2.14 Risk management governance structure We believe the identification and management of risk are central to thresholds and are set at the Group level.
Tolerance criteria achieving the corporate purpose of creating long-term shareholder additionally assess the control effectiveness of material risks.
Our approach to risk is set out in section 1.4.
The diagram below outlines the risk reporting process.
The principal aim of BHPs risk management governance structure Management has put in place a number of key policies, and internal control systems is to identify, evaluate and manage processes, performance requirements and controls to provide business risks with a view to enhancing the value of shareholders assurance to the Board and the RAC as to the integrity of our investments and safeguarding assets.
As previously set out, in reporting and effectiveness of our systems of internal control FY2018, we established a global Risk function headed by the and risk management.
Some of the more significant internal Chief Risk Officer.
This function has allowed enhancements to be control systems include Board and management committees, made, including developments in relation to the risk framework, Business RACs and internal audit.
culture, training, competencies and reporting, incorporating Board-level reporting.
Business Risk and Audit committees The Business RACs assist the RAC to monitor BHPs obligations The Board reviews and considers BHPs risk profile each year, which in relation to financial reporting, internal control structure, covers both operational and strategic risks.
Our material risk profile risk management processes and the internal and external is assessed to ensure it supports the achievement of BHPs strategy audit functions.
while seeking to maintain a strong balance sheet.
The Boards approach to investment decision-making, portfolio management Board committees and the consideration of risk in that process is set out in sections Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, the 1.4.
1 and 1.6, and includes a broad range of scenarios to assess Remuneration Committee and the Sustainability Committee.
This process allows us to be able to adjust the shape of our portfolio to match energy and commodity demand and Management committees meet societys expectations, while maximising shareholder returns.
Management committees also perform roles in relation to risk and The Risk and Audit Committee RAC assists the Board with the control.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from changes in our business environment are regularly reviewed by the ELT and oversight of risk management, although the Board retains overall accountability for BHPs risk profile.
In addition, the Board specifically discussed by the Board.
The Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC reviews the effectiveness of internal controls relating requires the CEO to implement a system of control for identifying and managing risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, review the to commodity price risk, counterparty credit risk, currency risk, financing risk, interest rate risk and insurance.
Minutes of systems that have been established for this purpose, regularly review the effectiveness of those systems and monitor that the FRMC meetings are provided to the Board through the RAC.
The Investment Review Committee IRC provides oversight for necessary actions have been taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
The RAC investment processes across BHP and coordinates the investment toll-gating process for major investments.
Reports are made to regularly reports to the Board to enable the Board to review our risk framework.
the Board on findings by the IRC in relation to major capital projects.
The Disclosure Committee oversees BHPs compliance The RAC has established review processes for the nature and with securities dealing and continuous and periodic disclosure extent of material risks taken in achieving our corporate purpose.
requirements, including reviewing information that may require These processes include the application of materiality and disclosure through stock exchanges and overseeing processes tolerance criteria to determine and assess material risks.
Materiality to ensure information disclosed is timely, accurate and complete.
criteria include maximum foreseeable loss and residual risk Risk reporting process Functions risks Business Risk and Management Plan Marketing and Supply functions risks GROUP Business Asset Business Group RISK RACs risk profile risk profile risk profile PROFILE annual Board Governance Document CEO Limits Opinion on effectiveness Group of internal controls 64.
The CEO will not permit the Group to operate unless Risk there is in place a system of control for identifying and CEO ELT Conclusion IAA is of the view that Profile managing the risks that are material to the achievement managements internal control Review of the corporate purpose and strategy and plans.
Risk and Audit Committee Report Sustainability Committee RAC has confirmed to the Board that Annual HSEC Management System certification SusCo RAC RAC is satisfied with the effectiveness HSEC only Certification... has been completed by all regions, of risk management and internal with the system certified as effective.
BOARD The Board is satisfied with the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems section 2.13.1.
122 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 2.15 Management Below the level of the Board, key management decisions are made by the CEO, the ELT, other management committees and individual members of management to whom authority has been delegated.
The diagram below describes the responsibilities of the CEO and four key management committees.
CEO and management committee responsibilities 2 Chief Executive Officer Holds delegated authority from the Board to achieve the corporate purpose.
Authority extends to all matters except those reserved for the Boards decision.
CEO has delegated authority to management committees and individual members of management but CEO remains accountable to Board for all authority delegated to him.
Executive Leadership Team Established by the CEO, the ELT has responsibility for day-to-day management of BHP.
Purpose is to provide leadership to BHP, determining its priorities and the way it is to operate, thereby assisting the CEO in pursuing the corporate purpose.
Is a forum to debate high-level matters important to BHP and to ensure consistent development of BHPs strategy.
Financial Risk Investment Disclosure Management Committee Committee Committee Purpose is to assist the CEO Purpose is to assist the CEO Purpose is to assist the to monitor and oversee the in ensuring rigorous and CEO in overseeing BHPs management of the financial consistent investment compliance with securities risks faced by BHP, including: processes are in place and dealing and continuous and working effectively, so that: periodic disclosure commodity price risk: requirements, including: counterparty credit risk: investments are aligned currency risk: with BHPs priorities reviewing information financing risk: and strategy: that may require disclosure interest rate risk: key risks and opportunities to stock exchanges: insurance.
are identified and managed: overseeing disclosure shareholder value processes to ensure is maximised.
information disclosed is timely, accurate and complete.
Performance evaluation for executives The performance of executives and other senior employees is A performance evaluation as outlined above was conducted for all reviewed on an annual basis.
For the members of the ELT, this members of the ELT during FY2018.
For the CEO, the performance review includes their contribution, engagement and interaction evaluation was led by the Chairman of the Board on behalf of at Board level.
The annual performance review process that all the Non-executive Directors, drawing on guidance from the we employ considers the performance of executives against Remuneration Committee.
criteria designed to capture both what is achieved and how it is achieved.
All performance assessments of executives consider how effective they have been in undertaking their role: what they have achieved against their specified key performance indicators: how they match up to the behaviours prescribed in our leadership model: and how those behaviours align with Our Charter values.
The assessment is therefore holistic and balances absolute achievement with the way performance has been delivered.
Progression within BHP is driven equally by personal leadership behaviours and capability to produce excellent results.
BHP Annual Report 2018 123 2.16 Our conduct 2.17 Market disclosure Our Charter and Our Code of Conduct We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure, ensuring that all investors and potential investors Our Charter is central to our business.
It articulates the values have the same access to high-quality, relevant information we uphold, our strategy and how we measure success.
in an accessible and timely manner to assist them in making Our Code of Conduct Our Code is based on Our Charter values.
The Disclosure Committee manages our Our Code sets out standards of behaviour for our people when compliance with market disclosure obligations and is responsible using BHP resources, in their dealings with governments and for implementing reporting processes and controls and setting communities, third parties, and each other.
Our Code describes guidelines for the release of information.
As part of our commitment the behaviours expected to support a safe, respectful and to continuous improvement, we continue to ensure alignment a legally compliant working environment.
with best practice as it develops in the jurisdictions in which BHP is listed.
Working with integrity is a condition of employment with BHP and in some cases a contractual obligation of many of our contractors Disclosure officers have been appointed in BHPs asset groups, and suppliers.
All our people are required to undertake annual Marketing and Supply, and functions.
These officers are responsible training on Our Code to promote awareness and understanding for identifying and providing the Disclosure Committee with of the behaviours expected of them.
Demonstration of the values referral information about the activities of the asset or functional described in Our Charter and Our Code is part of the annual areas using disclosure guidelines developed by the Committee.
The Committee then makes the decision whether a particular piece of information is material and therefore needs to be Our Code is accessible to all our people and external stakeholders disclosed to the market.
To safeguard the effective dissemination of information, we have developed the Our Requirements for market disclosure standard, BHPs EthicsPoint which outlines how we identify and distribute information to We have mechanisms in place for anyone to raise a report if they shareholders and market participants.
feel Our Code has been breached.
Employees and contractors can raise reports through line leaders or Human Resources.
Processes A copy of the market disclosure and communications document is available online at bhp.
for the community to report potential breaches of Our Code are available at the asset level.
Reports can also be raised by anyone through EthicsPoint, a Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which BHP 24-hour, multilingual service for confidential reporting of potential is listed, investor briefings, Financial Statements, the Annual Report misconduct.
This service is accessible online or via the phone and other relevant information can be found online at bhp.
and is managed by an independent third party.
Reports can be Any person wishing to receive advice by email of news releases raised anonymously.
We acknowledge, investigate as appropriate and document all matters reported.
Where matters are investigated and substantiated, 2.18 Remuneration we take appropriate remedial actions, advise the reporter where possible and document the outcome.
Details of our remuneration policies and practices, and the remuneration paid to the Directors Executive and Non-executive BHP does not tolerate any form of retaliation against anyone and other members of the KMP, are set out in the Remuneration for speaking up about potential misconduct or participating Report in section 3. in an investigation.
Political donations 2.19 Directors share ownership We maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party politics and do not make political contributions donations for political Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent purposes to any political party, politician, elected official or of their remuneration base fees plus committee fees to the candidate for public office.
We do, however, contribute to the purchase of BHP shares until they achieve a shareholding equivalent public debate of policy issues that may affect BHP in the countries in value to one years remuneration base fees plus committee fees.
As explained in the Directors Report, the Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level of shareholding Australian Electoral Commission AEC disclosure requirements throughout their tenure.
All dealings by Directors are subject to the are broad such that amounts that are not political donations can Our Requirements for Securities Dealing standard and are reported be reportable for AEC purposes.
For example, where a political to the Board and to the stock exchanges.
party or organisation owns shares in BHP, the AEC filing requires Information on our policy governing the use of hedging the political party or organisation to disclose the dividend payments received for their shareholding.
arrangements over shares in BHP by Directors and other members of the KMP is set out in section 3.3.
Details of the shares held by Directors are set out in section 3.3.
124 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Section 303A of the NYSE-Listed Company Manual contains a 2.20 Conformance with corporate broad regime of corporate governance requirements for NYSE-listed governance standards companies.
Under the NYSE rules, foreign private issuers, such as BHP, are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu of the Our compliance with the governance standards in our home requirements of Section 303A, except for the rule relating to jurisdictions of Australia and the United Kingdom, and with compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the Exchange Act audit committee the governance requirements that apply to us as a result of our independence and certain notification provisions contained in New York Stock Exchange NYSE listing and our registration Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual.
11 with the SEC in the United States, is summarised in this Corporate of the Listed Company Manual, however, requires us to disclose Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices Report and the Financial Statements.
differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSE The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules corporate governance standards.
After a comparison of our 2 of the UK Financial Conduct Authority require companies listed corporate governance practices with the requirements of Section in the United Kingdom to report how they have applied the Main 303A of the Listed Company Manual followed by US companies, Principles and the extent to which they have complied with the the following significant difference was identified: provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, Rule 10A-3 of the Exchange Act requires NYSE-listed companies and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
The UK Code to ensure their audit committees are directly responsible for the is available online at frc.
uk Our-Work , compensation, retention and oversight of the work Reporting Corporate-governance.
of the External Auditor unless the companys governing law or documents or other home country legal requirements require The Listing Rules of the ASX require ASX-listed companies to or permit shareholders to ultimately vote on or approve these report on the extent to which they meet the ASX Principles and matters.
While the RAC is directly responsible for remuneration Recommendations and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
and oversight of the External Auditor, the ultimate responsibility The ASX Principles and Recommendations are available online at for appointment and retention of the External Auditor rests asx.
with our shareholders, in accordance with UK law and our Both the UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations constitutional documents.
The RAC does, however, make require the Board to consider the application of the relevant recommendations to the Board on these matters, which are corporate governance principles, while recognising that departures in turn reported to shareholders.
from those principles are appropriate in some circumstances.
While the Board is satisfied with its level of compliance with the We have applied the Main Principles and complied with the governance requirements in Australia, the United Kingdom and provisions set out in the UK Code and with the ASX Principles and the United States, it recognises that practices and procedures can Recommendations during the financial period, with no exceptions.
always be improved and there is merit in continuously reviewing Appendix 4G, summarising our compliance with the its own standards against those in a variety of jurisdictions.
The ASX Principles and Recommendations is available online Boards program of review will continue throughout the year ahead.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants with the 2.21 Additional UK disclosure SEC in the United States.
Each company is classified as a foreign private issuer and each has American Depositary Shares listed The information specified in the UK Financial Conduct Authority on the NYSE.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, DTR 7.2.
6, is located elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The Directors Report in section 4 We have reviewed the governance requirements applicable to provides cross-references to where the information is located.
foreign private issuers under SOX, including the rules promulgated by the SEC and the rules of the NYSE, and are satisfied that we This Corporate Governance Statement was current, and approved comply with those requirements.
by the Board, on 6 September 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Ken MacKenzie Chairman 6 September 2018 BHP Annual Report 2018 125 Conventional petroleum off shore rig, Angostura, Trinidad and Tobago.
Photographer: Jeff Heger 126 BHP Annual Report 2018 In this section Section 3 3.1 Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman 3.2 Remuneration policy report Remuneration policy for the Executive Director Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors Remuneration 3.3 Annual report on remuneration Remuneration for the Executive Director the CEO Remuneration for other Executive KMP Report excluding the CEO Remuneration for Non-executive Directors Remuneration governance Other statutory disclosures This Remuneration Report describes the remuneration policies, Abbreviation Item practices, outcomes and governance for the KMP of BHP.
AASB Australian Accounting Standards Board AGM Annual General Meeting BHPs DLC structure means that we are subject to remuneration CEO Chief Executive Officer disclosure requirements in both the United Kingdom and DEP Dividend Equivalent Payment Australia.
This results in some complexity in our disclosures, DLC Dual Listed Company as there are some key differences in the requirements ELT Executive Leadership Team and the information that must be disclosed.
For example, GSTIP Group Short-Term Incentive Plan UK requirements give shareholders the right to a binding HSEC Health, Safety, Environment vote on remuneration policy every three years, and as a result, and Community the remuneration policy needs to be described in a separate IFRS International Financial section in the Remuneration Report.
Our remuneration policy Reporting Standards is set out in section 3.2.
In Australia, BHP is required to make KMP Key Management Personnel certain disclosures for KMP as defined by the Australian KPI Key Performance Indicator LTI Long-Term Incentive Corporations Act 2001, Australian Accounting Standards LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan and IFRS.
MAP Management Award Plan The UK requirements focus on the remuneration of executive MSR Minimum Shareholding Requirement and non-executive directors.
At BHP, this is our Board, including OMC Operations Management Committee the CEO, who is our sole Executive Director.
In contrast, the STI Short-Term Incentive Australian requirements focus on the remuneration of KMP, STIP Short-Term Incentive Plan TRIF Total Recordable Injury Frequency defined as those who have authority and responsibility for TSR Total Shareholder Return planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group UAP Underlying Attributable Profit directly or indirectly.
KMP includes the Board, as well as certain members of our senior executive team.
Consistent with BHPs continuing efforts to simplify the Companys activities, the OMC was dissolved during FY2018.
As a consequence, the Committee has re-examined the classification of KMP for FY2018 to determine which persons have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of BHP.
After due consideration, the Committee has determined the KMP for FY2018 comprised: all Non-executive Directors, the CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, the President Operations, Minerals Australia, the President Operations, Minerals Americas, and the President Operations, Petroleum.
The following individuals have held their positions and were KMP for the whole of FY2018, unless stated otherwise: CEO and Executive Director, Andrew Mackenzie: Non-executive Directors see section 3.3.
11 for details of the Non-executive Directors, including dates of appointment or cessation where relevant : Other Executive KMP, as set out in the table below.
Name Title Peter Beaven Chief Financial Officer Mike Henry President Operations, Minerals Australia Daniel Malchuk President Operations, Minerals Americas Steve Pastor President Operations, Petroleum BHP Annual Report 2018 127
