Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.2 Chief Executive Officers Report 1 This year, we returned US$6.3 billion to shareholders and announced our highest ever final dividend of 63 US cents per share.
Dear Shareholder, BHP has been on a deliberate path to maximise cash flow, maintain Overall, BHP is in very good shape.
In FY2018, underlying capital discipline and increase value and returns to our shareholders.
attributable profit was up 33 per cent to US$8.9 billion.
We delivered In FY2018, solid operating performance, combined with high an eight per cent increase in annual production compared to commodity prices, saw us achieve a strong set of results.
FY2017 and achieved record output at Western Australia Iron Ore, Queensland Coal and at our Spence copper mine in Chile.
The safety, health and wellbeing of our people is our number one priority.
Tragically, this year two of our colleagues died at work For the second consecutive year, we generated over US$12 billion Daniel Springer at Goonyella Riverside in August 2017 and a of free cash flow.
Consistent with our strict Capital Allocation colleague at our Permian Basin operations last November.
It is Framework, this strong cash generation gives us flexibility in how vital we learn as much as we can from these tragedies.
This year, we balance debt reduction, investment in projects and cash leaders across BHP held safety engagements with all employees returns to shareholders.
We will build on these to share the lessons with This year, we returned US$6.3 billion to shareholders and as many people as possible.
announced our highest ever final dividend of 63 US cents per We also had an increase in our total recordable injury frequency share.
We also announced the sale of our Onshore US assets performance to 4.4 per million hours worked.
While the increase for US$10.8 billion.
was modest, I am encouraged that our safety initiatives have Our diversified portfolio of tier one assets and, importantly, our helped reduce, by eight per cent, the number of events with the team of talented people made these returns possible.
Success potential to cause a fatality.
It is an important leading indicator is not just about the right portfolio.
Its how we operate our business of future safety performance.
Our commitment to health and safety is an important part of BHP has a highly capable team who have made our work methods Our Charter value of Sustainability.
So too is our commitment fit-for-purpose, embraced the business case for diversity and better to responsible environmental stewardship.
This year, BHP released its inaugural Water Report.
This is the The combination of our people, strategy and assets will build first step in our long-term plan to disclose more effectively our momentum into 2019 and beyond, and is key to our future success.
water use and performance as we strengthen water management Finally, thank you to our people, shareholders, suppliers, customers and governance across our assets.
Increased pressure on water and host communities.
We are truly committed to build shared resources throughout the world means we must do more to value, and without you this would not be possible.
responsibly meet water needs today and safeguard water supplies for future generations.
We also disclose our performance across a range of other safety, environmental, and community metrics in our Sustainability Report, which reinforces our commitment to transparency Andrew Mackenzie and accountability.
Chief Executive Officer BHP Annual Report 2018 5
