Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 March 2018 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Big Yellow Group PLC is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is 2 The Deans, Bridge Road, Bagshot, Surrey, GU19 5AT.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the Strategic Report on pages 16 to 28.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation of financial statements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union in accordance with EU law IAS regulation EC1606 2002 and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling, being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Unless otherwise stated, figures are rounded to the nearest thousand.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except as described in the following sections.
Amendments to IFRSs that are mandatorily effective for the current year In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flow Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 2 amendments Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IAS 7 amendments Disclosure Initiative IAS 12 amendments Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture None of these standards not yet effective are expected to have a significant impact on the Financial Statements of the Group or Company.
Certain Standards which might have an impact are discussed below.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 covers the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities.
It also introduces a new impairment model for financial assets and new rules for hedge accounting.
The standard is applicable for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2018, and hence the year ending 31 March 2019 will be the first applicable year for the Group.
There will be no impact on the Groups accounting for financial liabilities, as the new requirements only affect the accounting for financial liabilities that are designated at fair value through the income statement and the Group does not have any such liabilities.
The impairment model under IFRS 9 requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses ECL rather than only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39.
The significant financial assets held by the Group that will be impacted by the impairment losses recognised under IFRS 9 are trade receivables.
Trade receivables in the balance sheet at 31 March 2018 were 3.7 million with an impairment provision recognised under IAS 39 of 0.01 million.
As described in note 16, the Groups exposure to credit risk is low.
The Directors have assessed the impact of impairment losses recognised for trade receivables under IFRS 9 at 31 March 2018 based on actual losses experienced over the past five years.
Following this assessment, the impact and volatility on impairment losses recognised under IFRS 9 is estimated to be immaterial.
The Company holds intercompany loan and receivables balances with the subsidiaries of the Group as disclosed in Note 31.
The Directors do not estimate there to be a material impact on the Company only Financial Statements from the recognition of impairment provisions for the loans and receivables under IFRS 9 compared to accounting for it held under IAS 39.
The new standard introduces enhanced disclosure requirements and changes in presentation.
