TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 000 000 Current Trade payables 12,739 13,279 Other payables 7,710 8,352 Accruals and deferred income 16,379 15,304 36,828 36,935 The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit terms.
The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other payables and accruals and deferred income approximates fair value.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 19, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Groups debt facilities require 40% of total drawn debt to be fixed.
The Group has complied with this during the year.
With the exception of derivative instruments which are classified as a financial liability at fair value through the income statement FVTPL, financial liabilities are categorised under amortised cost.
All financial assets are categorised as loans and receivables.
Exposure to credit, interest rate and currency risks arises in the normal course of the Groups business.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, but are not employed for speculative purposes.
Balance sheet management The Groups Board reviews the capital structure on an ongoing basis.
As part of this review, the Board considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
The Group seeks to have a conservative gearing ratio the proportion of net debt to equity.
The Board considers at each review the appropriateness of the current ratio in light of the above.
The Board is currently satisfied with the Groups gearing ratio.
Debt management The Group currently borrows through a senior term loan, secured on 25 self storage assets and sites, a 15 year loan with Aviva Commercial Finance Limited secured on a portfolio of 15 self storage assets, and a 70 million seven year loan from M&G Investments Limited secured on a portfolio of 15 self storage assets.
Borrowings are arranged to ensure an appropriate maturity profile and to maintain short term liquidity.
Funding is arranged through banks and financial institutions with whom the Group has a strong working relationship.
