FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The disclosure relating to the Companys financial instruments are detailed in note 18 to the Group financial statements.
These disclosures are relevant to the Companys bank borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
In addition, the Company has trade and other payables of 3,539,000 in the current year of which the financial liability is 292,000 2017: 3,137,000, of which the financial liability was 145,000, which are held at amortised cost in the financial statements.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Included within these financial statements are amounts owing from Group undertakings of 470,597,000 2017: 481,188,000, including intercompany interest receivable of 5,101,000 2017: 3,585,000 and dividends receivable of 5,749,000 2017: nil.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT Reconciliation of profit after tax to cash generated from operations 2018 2017 000 000 Profit loss after tax 5,298 339 Investment income 10,850 3,585 Finance costs 4,647 2,975 Operating profit 905 949 Depreciation 56 53 Decrease in receivables 10,578 46,831 Decrease in payables 427 73 Cash generated from operations 10,156 45,862 37.
GLOSSARY Adjusted eps Adjusted profit after tax divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Adjusted NAV EPRA NAV adjusted for an investment property valuation carried out at purchasers costs of 2.75%.
Adjusted Profit Before Tax The Companys pre-tax EPRA earnings measure with additional Company adjustments.
Average net achieved rent per sq ft Storage revenue divided by average occupied space over a defined period.
BREEAM An environmental rating assessed under the Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
Carbon intensity Carbon emissions divided by the Groups average occupied space.
Closing net rent per sq ft Annual storage revenue generated from in-place customers divided by occupied space at the balance sheet date.
Debt Long-term and short-term borrowings, as detailed in note 19, excluding finance leases and debt issue costs.
Earnings per share eps Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders divided by the average number of shares in issue during the period.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EPRA The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry body.
This organisation has issued Best Practice Recommendations with the intention of improving the transparency, comparability and relevance of the published results of listed real estate companies in Europe.
EPRA earnings The IFRS profit after taxation attributable to shareholders of the Company excluding investment property revaluations, gains losses on investment property disposals and changes in the fair value of financial instruments.
EPRA earnings per share EPRA earnings divided by the average number of shares in issue during the period.
EPRA NAV per share EPRA NAV divided by the diluted number of shares at the period end.
EPRA net asset value IFRS net assets excluding the mark-to-market on interest rate derivatives effective cash flow as deferred taxation on property valuations where it arises.
It is adjusted for the dilutive impact of share options.
EPRA NNNAV The EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of debt and derivatives and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
Equity All capital and reserves of the Group attributable to equity holders of the Company.
133 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2018 37.
GLOSSARY continued Gross property assets The sum of investment property and investment property under construction.
Gross value added The measure of the value of goods and services produced in an area, industry or sector of an economy.
Income statement Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Interest cover The ratio of operating cash flow excluding working capital movements divided by interest paid before exceptional finance costs, capitalised interest and changes in fair value of interest rate derivatives.
This metric is provided to give readers a clear view of the Groups financial position.
Like-for-like occupancy Excludes the closing occupancy of new stores acquired or opened in the current period.
Like-for-like revenue Excludes the impact of new stores acquired or opened in the current or preceding financial year in both the current year and comparative figures.
This excludes Nine Elms and Twickenham 2 both acquired in April 2016 and Guildford Central opened in March 2018.
LTV loan to value Net debt expressed as a percentage of the external valuation of the Groups investment properties.
Maximum lettable area MLA The total square foot sq ft available to rent to customers.
Move-ins The number of customers taking a storage room in the defined period.
Move-outs The number of customers vacating a storage room in the defined period.
Net debt Gross borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Net initial yield The forthcoming years net operating income expressed as a percentage of capital value, after adding notional purchasers costs.
Net promoter score NPS The Net Promoter Score is an index ranging from -100 to 100 that measures the willingness of customers to recommend a companys products or services to others.
The Company measures NPS based on surveys sent to all of its move-ins and move-outs.
Net rent per sq ft Storage revenue generated from in place customers divided by occupancy.
Occupancy The space occupied by customers divided by the MLA expressed as a %.
Occupied space The space occupied by customers in sq ft.
Pipeline The Groups development sites.
Property Income Distribution PID A dividend, generally subject to withholding tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay from its tax exempt property rental business and which is taxable for UK-resident shareholders at their marginal tax rate.
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust.
A tax regime which in the UK exempts participants from corporation tax both on UK rental income and gains arising on UK investment property sales, subject to certain conditions.
REVPAF Total store revenue divided by the average maximum lettable area in the year.
Store EBITDA Store earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Total shareholder return TSR The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of shares.
