Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Big Yellow Group PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Big Yellow Group PLC the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in notes 2 and 29.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 20 July 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is eight months for the financial year ended 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: 9.5m Group financial statements as a whole 0.69% of Total Assets Coverage 100% of Total Assets Risks of material misstatement Recurring Risks Valuation of Investment Property, including Investment Property under Construction Parent Company: Amounts owed by Group Undertakings 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
