Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2018 28.
PROFIT LOSS FOR THE YEAR As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the statement of comprehensive income of the Company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders dealt with in the financial statements of the Company was 5.3 million 2017: loss of 0.3 million.
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by that Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by the EU.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The Companys principal accounting policies are the same as those applied in the Group financial statements.
See note 23 for details of share based payments affecting the Company.
Going concern See note 2 for the review of going concern for the Group and the Company.
Investment in subsidiaries These are recognised at cost less provision for any impairment.
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions The Company makes equity settled share based payments to certain employees of certain subsidiary undertakings.
Equity settled share based payments that are made to the employees of the Companys subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in the Companys investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
This is the only addition to investment in subsidiaries in the current year.
The Company does not have any employees.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS continued b Investments in subsidiary companies Investment in subsidiary undertakings 000 Cost At 31 March 2017 18,020 Additions 2,470 At 31 March 2018 20,490 The Group subsidiaries are all wholly-owned, the Group holds 100% of the voting power and the companies are incorporated, registered and operate in England and Wales.
The registered office of all subsidiaries is 2 The Deans, Bridge Road, Bagshot, Surrey, GU19 5AT.
The subsidiaries at 31 March 2018 are listed below: Name of subsidiary Principal activity.
Big Yellow Self Storage GP Limited General Partner.
Big Yellow Self Storage Company Limited Self storage Big Yellow Battersea Limited Self storage The Big Yellow Construction Company Limited Construction management The Big Yellow Holding Company Limited Holding Company Big Yellow Limited Partnership Self storage Big Yellow Nominee No.
1 Limited Dormant Big Yellow Nominee No.
2 Limited Dormant Big Yellow Self Storage Chester Limited Application to strike off Big Yellow Self Storage Company 1 Limited Dormant Big Yellow Self Storage Company 2 Limited Dormant Big Yellow Self Storage Company 3 Limited Dormant Big Yellow Self Storage Company 4 Limited Dormant Big Yellow Self Storage Company 8 Limited Self storage Big Yellow Self Storage Company A Limited Self storage Big Yellow Self Storage Company M Limited Self storage BYRCo Limited Property management BYSSCo A Limited Dormant BYSSCo Limited Self storage Kator Storage Limited Self storage The Last Mile Company Limited Holding Company Lock & Leave Limited Self storage Lock & Leave Twickenham Limited Self storage In addition the Group has a 100% interest in Pramerica Bell Investment Trust Jersey, a trust registered in Jersey.
Audit exemption statement For its most recent year end the companies listed below were entitled to exemption from audit under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 relating to subsidiary companies.
The members of these companies have not required them to obtain an audit of their financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018.. Big Yellow Self Storage GP Limited Big Yellow Self Storage Company 8 Limited The Big Yellow Construction Company Limited BYRCo Limited Big Yellow Holding Company Limited BYSSCo Limited Big Yellow Nominee No.
1 Limited BYSSCo A Limited Big Yellow Nominee No.
2 Limited Kator Storage Limited Big Yellow Self Storage Company 1 Limited The Last Mile Company Limited Big Yellow Self Storage Company 2 Limited Lock & Leave Limited Big Yellow Self Storage Company 3 Limited Lock & Leave Twickenham Limited Big Yellow Self Storage Company 4 Limited 131
