VALUATION OF INVESTMENT PROPERTY continued Immature stores: value uncertainty C&W have assessed the value of each property individually.
However, two of the Groups stores are relatively immature and have low initial cash flows.
C&W have endeavoured to reflect the nature of the cash flow profile for these properties in their valuation, and the higher associated risks relating to the as yet unproven future cash flows, by adjustment to the capitalisation rates and discount rates adopted.
However, immature low cash flow stores of this nature are rarely, if ever, traded individually in the market, unless as part of a distressed sale or similar situation.
Although, there is more evidence of immature low cash flow stores being traded as part of a group or portfolio transaction.
Please note C&Ws comments in relation to market uncertainty in the self storage sector due to the lack of comparable market transactions and information.
The degree of uncertainty relating to the immature stores is greater than in relation to the balance of the properties due to there being even less market evidence that might be available for more mature properties and portfolios.
C&W state that in practice, if an actual sale of the properties were to be contemplated then any immature low cash flow stores would normally be presented to the market for sale lotted or grouped with other more mature assets owned by the same entity, in order to alleviate the issue of negative or low short-term cash flow.
This approach would enhance the marketability of the group of assets and assist in achieving the best price available in the market by diluting the cash flow risk.
C&W have not adjusted their opinion of Fair Value to reflect such a grouping of the immature assets with other properties in the portfolio and all stores have been valued individually.
However, they highlight the matter to alert the Group to the manner in which the properties might be grouped or lotted in order to maximise their attractiveness to the market place.
C&W consider this approach to be a valuation assumption but not a Special Assumption, the latter being an assumption that assumes facts that differ from the actual facts existing at the valuation date and which, if not adopted, could produce a material difference in value.
As noted above, C&W have not assumed that the entire portfolio of properties owned by the entity would be sold as a single lot and the value for the whole portfolio in the context of a sale as a single lot may differ significantly from the aggregate of the individual values for each property in the portfolio, reflecting the lotting assumption described above.
Valuation assumption for purchasers costs The Groups investment property assets have been valued for the purposes of the financial statements after deducting notional purchasers cost of circa 6.1% to 6.8% of gross value, as if they were sold directly as property assets.
The valuation is an asset valuation which is entirely linked to the operating performance of the business.
The assets would have to be sold with the benefit of operational contracts, employment contracts and customer contracts, which would be very difficult to achieve except in a corporate structure.
This approach follows the logic of the valuation methodology in that the valuation is based on a capitalisation of the net operating income after allowing a deduction for operational cost and an allowance for central administration costs.
Sale in a corporate structure would result in a reduction in the assumed Stamp Duty Land Tax but an increase in other transaction costs reflecting additional due diligence resulting in a reduced notional purchasers cost of 2.75% of gross value.
All the significant sized transactions that have been concluded in the UK in recent years were completed in a corporate structure.
The Group therefore instructed C&W to carry out an additional valuation on the above basis, and this results in a higher property valuation at 31 March 2018 of 1,380.3 million 77.0 million higher than the value recorded in the financial statements.
The total valuations in the two Armadillo Partnerships performed by Jones Lang LaSalle are 3.3 million higher than the value recorded in the financial statements, of which the Groups share is 0.7 million.
The sum of these is 77.7 million and translates to 48.8 pence per share.
We have included this revised valuation in the adjusted diluted net asset calculation see note 13.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 000 000 Current Trade receivables 3,684 3,174 Capital Goods Scheme receivable 1,876 2,725 Other receivables 287 266 Prepayments and accrued income 12,739 11,877 18,586 18,042 Non-current Capital Goods Scheme receivable 2,385 4,091 Trade receivables are net of a bad debt provision of 14,000 2017: 7,000.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
The Financial Review contains commentary on the Capital Goods Scheme receivable.
115 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2018 16.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued Trade receivables The Group does not typically offer credit terms to its customers, requiring them to pay in advance of their storage period and hence the Group is not exposed to significant credit risk.
A late charge of 10% is applied to a customers account if they are greater than 10 days overdue in their payment.
The Group provides for receivables on a specific basis.
There is a right of lien over the customers goods, so if they have not paid within a certain time frame, we have the right to sell the items they store to recoup the debt owed.
Trade receivables that are overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience.
For individual storage customers, the Group does not perform credit checks, however this is mitigated by the fact that these customers are required to pay in advance, and also to pay a deposit ranging between one week to four weeks storage income.
Before accepting a new business customer who wishes to use a number of the Groups stores, the Group uses an external credit rating to assess the potential customers credit quality and defines credit limits by customer.
There are no customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
Included in the Groups trade receivable balance are debtors with a carrying amount of 329,000 2017: 250,000 which are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
The average age of these receivables is 21 days past due 2017: 19 days past due.
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables 2018 2017 000 000 1 30 days 264 214 30 60 days 30 23 60 days 35 13 Total 329 250 Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts 2018 2017 000 000 Balance at the beginning of the year 7 11 Amounts provided in year 114 63 Amounts written off as uncollectible 107 67 Balance at the end of the year 14 7 The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
