Note 2: Return on shareholders funds has been calculated as profit after interest and tax over opening shareholders funds.
Note 3: Return on capital employed has been calculated as operating profit over the average of opening and closing shareholders funds plus net debt or less net cash, excluding investment in joint ventures.
Note 4: Earnings per share is calculated on post exceptional basis see note 2.3 on page 128.
The introduction of new accounting standards have not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements and the historical metrics presented see note 1.7.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 151 152 | Supplementary information Supplementary information Medium term targets Returning the Group to being a leading UK housebuilder by 2020 Shinfield Meadows, Shinfield | Bovis Homes Group PLC 153 Notice of meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 2019 Annual General Meeting of Bovis Homes Group PLC the Company will be held at The Spa Hotel, Mount Ephraim, Royal Tunbridge Wells, Kent TN4 8XJ on Wednesday, 22 May 2019 at 12.00 pm for the following purposes: Ordinary resolutions Reports and accounts 1 To receive the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 and the reports of the directors and auditors.
Remuneration report 2 To approve the directors remuneration report in the form set out in the Companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 in accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006. Dividend 3 To declare the final dividend recommended by the directors.
Directors 4 To re-appoint Ian Paul Tyler as a director of the Company.
5 To re-appoint Margaret Christine Browne as a director of the Company.
6 To re-appoint Ralph Graham Findlay as a director of the Company.
7 To re-appoint Nigel Keen as a director of the Company.
8 To re-appoint Michael John Stansfield as a director of the Company.
9 To re-appoint Katherine Innes Ker as a director of the Company.
10 To re-appoint Gregory Paul Fitzgerald as a director of the Company.
11 To re-appoint Earl Sibley as a director of the Company.
Auditors 12 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company.
13 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Authority to allot shares 14 That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company pursuant to and in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act : a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,444,280: and b comprising equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,888,560 including within such limit any shares issued or rights granted under paragraph a above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: such authorities to apply unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in a general meeting until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2020 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but in each case so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require shares to be allotted, or rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares to be granted, after the authority ends and the directors may allot shares and grant rights under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
| 154 Supplementary information Notice of meeting continued Special resolutions Notice of general meetings 15 That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights 16 That if resolution 14 is passed, and in place of all existing powers, the directors be authorised pursuant to section 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act to allot equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act wholly for cash under the authority given by that resolution as if section 561 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such power: a to expire unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in a general meeting at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2020 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but, in each case during this period the directors may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and the directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended: b to be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under resolution 14 b by way of a rights issue only to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and c to be limited, in the case of the authority granted under resolution 14 a, to the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,370,012.
This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the 2006 Act as if in the first paragraph of this resolution the words under the authority given by that resolution were omitted.
Authority to purchase own shares 17 That the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority, for the purposes of section 701 of the 2006 Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of the ordinary shares of 50 pence each in its capital PROVIDED THAT: i this authority shall be limited so that the number of ordinary shares of 50 pence each which may be acquired pursuant to this authority does not exceed an aggregate of 13,480,048 ordinary shares and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2020 except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before such time and which is executed wholly or partly after such time : ii the maximum exclusive of expenses price which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS : and iii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 50 pence.
Bovis Homes Group PLC By Order of the Board 11 Tower View M T D Palmer Kings Hill, West Malling Group Company Secretary Kent ME19 4UY 22 March 2019 | Bovis Homes Group PLC 155 Notice of meeting continued Notes: i Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the 2006 Act, the Company gives notice that only holders of ordinary shares entered on the register of members no later than 8.00pm on 20 May 2019 or, in the event of any adjournment, 8.00pm on the day which is two days before the adjourned meeting will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and a member may vote in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in the members name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
ii A proxy form is enclosed.
A registered member of the Company may appoint one or more proxies in respect of some or all of their ordinary shares to exercise that members rights to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
A registered member appointing multiple proxies must ensure that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attaching to different shares and must specify on the proxy form the number of shares in relation to which that proxy is appointed.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY.
Members or their duly appointed proxies are requested to bring proof of identity with them to the meeting in order to confirm their identity for security reasons.
A shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting in accordance with section 319A of the 2006 Act.
In certain circumstances prescribed by the same section, the Company need not answer a question.
iii The proxy form must be executed by or on behalf of the member making the appointment.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
A corporation may execute the form s of proxy either under its common seal or under the hand of a duly authorised officer, attorney or other authorised person.
A member may appoint more than one proxy to attend and vote on the same occasion.
iv A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
v Participants of the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may instruct the trustee to vote on their behalf on a poll.
vi The proxy form and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power or authority must be received at the office of the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY or received via the Computershare website, www.
co. uk eproxy full details of the procedures are given in the notes to the proxy form enclosed with the report and accounts and on the website not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion of the proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST proxy instruction as described in paragraph vii below will not preclude a member from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person instead of through his proxy or proxies.
Voting on all substantive resolutions will be by a poll.
When announcing the results of the poll voting, the Company will disclose the total number of votes in favour and against and the number of abstentions on the Company website www.
co. uk and through a Regulatory Information Service.
If a member returns both paper and electronic proxy instructions, those received last by the Registrar before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Members are advised to read the website terms and conditions of use carefully.
vii To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time appointed for holding the meeting and any adjournment of the meeting in accordance with the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. viii CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions and the appropriate CREST message must be properly, authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions and described in the CREST Manual available via www.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
ix Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph ii above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by members of the Company.
x As at 22 March 2019 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 134,800,481 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each on a poll.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 22 March 2019 are 134,800,481.
