Register of holders of American depositary shares ADSs as at Annual general meeting a 31December 2018 The 2019 AGM will be held on Tuesday 21May 2019 at 11.00am.
A Numberof Percentageof Percentageof Range of holdings ADSholders total ADSholders total ADSs separate notice convening the meeting is distributed to shareholders, which includes an explanation of the items of business to be 1-200 48,763 59.44 0.28 considered at the meeting.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in 10,001-100,000 501 0.61 0.91 office as auditors and a resolution for their reappointment is included 100,001-1,000,000 7 0.01 0.13 in the Notice of BP Annual General Meeting 2019. b Over 1,000,000 1 0.00 94.40 Totals 82,042 100.00 100.00 Memorandum and Articles of a One ADS represents six 25 cent ordinary shares.
b One holder of ADSs represents 1,169,280 underlying shareholders.
Association As at 31December 2018 there were also 1,286 preference The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys shareholders.
Preference shareholders represented 0.42% and Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
ordinary shareholders represented 99.58% of the total issued This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the UK nominal share capital of the company excluding shares held in Companies Act 2006 the Act and the companys Memorandum and treasury as at that date.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association As at 31 December 2018, we had been notified pursuant to DTR5 are available online at bp.
that BlackRock, Inc. held 6.84% of the voting rights attached to the The companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special issued share capital of the company.
resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
At the annual Between 1 January 2019 and 11 March 2019, we received notification general meeting AGM held on 17April 2008 shareholders voted to of the following interests pursuant to DTR5.
On 12 February 2019, adopt new Articles of Association, largely to take account of changes BlackRock, Inc. notified BP that it held 7.29% of the voting rights in UK company law brought about by the Act.
Further amendments to attached to the issued share capital of the company.
On 19 February the Articles of Association were approved by shareholders at the 2019, BlackRock, Inc. notified BP that it held 7.28% of the voting AGM held on 15April2010 and shareholders voted to adopt new rights attached to the issued share capital of the company.
Articles of Association at the AGM held on 16April 2015.
At the AGM held on 21 May 2018 shareholders voted to adopt new Articles of We are also aware that, as at 11March 2019, BlackRock, Inc. held Association to reflect developments in market practice and to provide 6.61% and The Vanguard Group, Inc. held 3.45% of the ordinary clarification and additional flexibility where necessary or appropriate.
issued share capital of the company.
Under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 BP is aware of the Objects and purposes following interests as at 11March 2019: BP is a public company limited by shares, incorporated under the Percentage of name BP p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales with the ordinary share capital Holding of excluding shares held registered number 102498.
The provisions regulating the operations Holder ordinary shares in treasury of the company, known as its objects, were historically stated in a JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. companys memorandum.
The Act abolished the need to have object depositary for ADSs, through provisions and so at the AGM held on 15April 2010 shareholders its nominee Guaranty approved the removal of its objects clause together with all other 5,533,239,667 27.31 Nominees Limited provisions of its Memorandum that, by virtue of the Act, are treated BlackRock, Inc. 1,339,183,607 6.61 as forming part of the companys Articles of Association.
The companys major shareholders do not have different voting rights.
Directors and secretary The company has also been notified of the following interests in The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
The preference shares as at 11March 2019: companys Articles of Association provide that directors may be Holding of 8% appointed by the existing directors or by the shareholders in a general cumulative first Percentage Holder preference shares ofclass meeting.
Any person appointed by the directors will hold office only until the next general meeting, notice of which is first given after their The National Farmers Union Mutual 945,000 13.10 Insurance Society Limited appointment and will then be eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
A director may be removed by BP as provided for by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 628,471 8.70 applicable law and shall vacate office in certain circumstances as set Management Limited out in the Articles of Association.
In addition the company may, by Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. 587,885 8.10 special resolution, remove a director before the expiration of his her Prudential plc 528,150 7.30 period of office and, subject to the Articles of Association, may by ordinary resolution appoint another person to be a director instead.
Holdingof9% cumulativesecond Percentage There is no requirement for a director to retire on reaching any age.
Holder preference shares ofclass The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director The National Farmers Union Mutual voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which the director Insurance Society Limited 987,000 18.00 has a material interest other than by virtue of such directors interest Prudential plc 644,450 11.80 in shares in the company.
However, in the absence of some other material interest not indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the following matters: Safra Group 320,000 5.80 The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money lent Hargreaves Lansdown Asset or obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the Management Limited 317,789 5.80 company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. 283,135 5.20 Any proposal in which the director is interested, concerning the underwriting of company securities or debentures or the giving of As at 11March 2019, the total preference shares in issue comprised any security to a third party for a debt or obligation of the company only 0.42% of the companys total issued nominal share capital or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
excluding shares held in treasury, the rest being ordinary shares.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 309 See Glossary Any proposal concerning any other company in which the director Dividend rights: other rights to share in company profits: capitalcalls is interested, directly or indirectly whether as an officer or If recommended by the directors of BP, shareholders of BP may, by shareholder or otherwise provided that the director and persons resolution, declare dividends but no such dividend may be declared in connected with such director are not the holder or holders of 1% excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors or more of the voting interest in the shares of such company.
may also pay interim dividends without obtaining shareholder Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any approval.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available insurance policy under which the director may benefit.
for distribution, as determined under IFRS and the Act.
Dividends on ordinary shares are payable only after payment of dividends on BP Any proposal concerning the giving to the director of any other preference shares.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 10 years indemnity which is on substantially the same terms as indemnities from the date of declaration of such dividend shall be forfeited and given or to be given to all of the other directors or to the funding by reverts to BP.
If the company exercises its right to forfeit shares and the company of his expenditure on defending proceedings or the sells shares belonging to an untraced shareholder then any doing by the company of anything to enable the director to avoid entitlement to claim dividends or other monies unclaimed in respect incurring such expenditure where all other directors have been of those shares will be for a period of twelve months after the sale.
given or are to be given substantially the same arrangements.
The company may take such steps as the directors decide are Any proposal concerning an arrangement for the benefit of the appropriate in the circumstances to trace the member entitled and employees and directors or former employees and former directors the sale may be made at such time and on such terms as the of the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, including but directors may decide.
without being limited to a retirement benefits scheme and an The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any employees share scheme, which does not accord to any director currency provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is not the any privilege or advantage not generally accorded to the employees companys intention to change its current policy of paying dividends or former employees to whom the arrangement relates.
At the companys AGM held on 15April 2010, The Act requires a director of a company who is in any way interested shareholders approved the introduction of a Scrip Dividend in a contract or proposed contract with the company to declare the Programme Scrip Programme and to include provisions in the nature of the directors interest at a meeting of the directors of the Articles of Association to enable the company to operate the Scrip company.
The definition of interest includes the interests of Programme.
The Scrip Programme was renewed at the companys spouses, children, companies and trusts.
The Act also requires that a AGM held on 21 May 2018 for a further three years.
The Scrip director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, a Programme enables ordinary shareholders and BP ADS holders to direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with elect to receive new fully paid ordinary shares or BP ADSs in the the companys interests.
The Act allows directors of public companies case of BP ADS holders instead of cash.
The operation of the Scrip to authorize such conflicts where appropriate, if a companys Articles Programme is always subject to the directors decision to make the of Association so permit.
BPs Articles of Association permit the scrip offer available in respect of any particular dividend.
Should the authorization of such conflicts.
The directors may exercise all the directors decide not to offer the scrip in respect of any particular powers of the company to borrow money, except that the amount dividend, cash will automatically be paid instead.
The directors may remaining undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the company shall determine in relation to any scrip dividend plan or programme how not, without approval of the shareholders, exceed two times the the costs of the programme will be met, the minimum number of amount paid up on the share capital plus the aggregate of the amount ordinary shares required in order to be able to participate in the of the capital and revenue reserves of the company.
Variation of the programme and any arrangements to deal with legal and practical borrowing power of the board may only be affected by amending the difficulties in any particular territory.
Apart from shareholders rights to share in BPs profits by dividend if Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in the any is declared or announced, the Articles of Association provide that aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of the directors may set aside: executive directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
A special reserve fund out of the balance of profits each year to This committee is made up of non-executive directors only.
There is make up any deficit of cumulative dividend on the BP preference no requirement of share ownership for a directors qualification.
The Articles of Association provide entitlement to the directors pensions and death and disability benefits to the directors relations A general reserve out of the balance of profits each year, which shall be applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the and dependants respectively.
company may properly be applied.
This may include capitalization of The circumstances in which a directors office will automatically such sum, pursuant to an ordinary shareholders resolution, and terminate include: when a director ceases to hold an executive office distribution to shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a of the company and the directors resolve that he should cease to be dividend on the ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued a director: if a medical practitioner provides an opinion that a director ordinary shares for allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
has become incapable of acting as a director and may remain so incapable for a further three months and the directors resolve that he Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with the manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
should cease to be a director: and if all of the other directors vote in favour of a resolution stating that the person should cease to be a Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the company, director.
provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have been paid off.
All shares are fully paid.
The company secretary has express powers to delegate any of the powers or discretions conferred on him or her.
Share transfers and share certificates The directors may permit transfers to be effected other than by an instrument in writing and that share certificates will not be required to be issued by the company if they are not required by law.
The company may charge an administrative fee in the event that a shareholder wishes to replace two or more certificates representing shares with a single certificate or wishes to surrender a single certificate and replace it with two or more certificates.
All certificates are sent at the members risk.
310 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the Voting rights holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such resolutions at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other restrictions as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the than resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a absence of any such resolutions, by determination of the directors, show of hands.
If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present and may issue shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and two votes for every 5 in nominal amount of BP preference shares Variation of rights held.
If voting is on a show of hands, each shareholder who is The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the present at the meeting in person or whose duly appointed proxy is consent in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on present in person will have one vote, regardless of the number of the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of shares held, unless a poll is requested.
the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum with For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to attend respect to a meeting to change the rights attached to the preference or vote at a shareholders meeting and how many votes such persons shares is 10% or more of the shares of that class, and the quorum to may cast, the company may specify in the notice of the meeting a change the rights attached to the ordinary shares is one third or more time, not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting, by of the shares of that class.
which a person who holds shares in registered form must be entered on the companys register of members in order to have the right to Shareholders meetings and notices attend or vote at the meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so.
Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in Holders on record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, including a the UK to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote on their Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of behalf at any shareholders meeting, provided that a duly completed the deposit agreement relating to BP ADSs.
The substance and proxy form is received not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as timing of notices are described above under the heading Voting rights.
the directors may determine before the time of the meeting or adjourned meeting or, where the poll is to be taken after the date of Under the Act, the AGM of shareholders must be held once every the meeting, not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the year, within each six month period beginning with the day following the companys accounting reference date.
All general meetings shall directors may determine before the time of the poll.
be held at a time and place determined by the directors.
If any Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and shareholders meeting is adjourned for lack of quorum, notice of the vote at any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the time and place of the adjourned meeting may be given in any lawful approved depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. of them as proxies manner, including electronically.
Powers exist for action to be taken in respect of the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each either before or at the meeting by authorized officers to ensure its such proxy may also appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP orderly conduct and safety of those attending.
ADSs are entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, who will vote the ordinary shares represented by their The directors have power to convene a general meeting which is a ADSs in accordance with their instructions.
hybrid meeting, that is to provide facilities for shareholders to attend a meeting which is being held at a physical place by electronic means Proxies may be delivered electronically.
as well but not to convene a purely electronic meeting.
Corporations who are members of the company may appoint one or The provisions of the Articles of Association in relation to satellite more persons to act as their representative or representatives at any meetings permit facilities being provided by electronic means to allow shareholders meeting provided that the company may require a those persons at each place to participate in the meeting.
corporate representative to produce a certified copy of the resolution appointing them before they are permitted to exercise their powers.
Limitations on voting and shareholding Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the proposing There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the and passing of resolutions, of which there are two types: ordinary or companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident special.
or foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference shares in the company other than limitations that would generally apply to all of An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shareholders and limitations applicable to certain countries and the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a persons subject to EU economic sanctions or those sanctions quorum.
A special resolution requires the affirmative vote of not less adopted by the UK government which implement resolutions of the than three quarters of the persons voting at a meeting at which there Security Council of the United Nations.
Any AGM requires 21 clear days notice.
The notice period for any other general meeting is 14 clear days subject to the Disclosure of interests in shares company obtaining annual shareholder approval, failing which, a 21 The Act permits a public company to give notice to any person whom clear day notice period will apply.
the company believes to be or, at any time during the three years Liquidation rights: redemption provisions prior to the issue of the notice, to have been interested in its voting shares requiring them to disclose certain information with respect to In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and those interests.
Failure to supply the information required may lead to applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of disenfranchisement of the relevant shares and a prohibition on their secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be transfer and receipt of dividends and other payments in respect of entitled to the sum of 1 the capital paid up on such shares plus, those shares and any new shares in the company issued in respect of 2 accrued and unpaid dividends and 3 a premium equal to the those shares.
In this context the term interest is widely defined and higher of a 10% of the capital paid up on the BP preference shares will generally include an interest of any kind whatsoever in voting and b the excess of the average market price over par value of such shares, including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
shares on the LSE during the previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided pro rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 311 See Glossary
