The Abidjan Convention has been now been ratified by more than 15 The EUshipping monitoring, reporting and verification MRV African nations, including Angola.
The Convention, along with the regulation entered into force in July 2015 and is aimed at gathering Additional Protocol published in 2012, sets environmental quality data onCO2 emissions based on ships fuel consumption.
It is standards for the discharge of chemicals to the marine environment.
considered the first step of a staged approachfor the inclusion of BP currently operates produced water treatment to meet these maritime transport emissionsin the EUs GHG reduction quality standards in Angola and is designing systems to meet the commitment.
In parallel, through amendments to MARPOLAnnex standard for our future gas operations in Mauritania and Senegal.
VI, the IMO Data Collection System DCS for collecting and analysing fuel consumption data came into effect in March 2018.
Environmental maritime regulations To meet its financial responsibility requirements, BP Shipping BPs shipping operations are subject to extensive national and maintains marine pollution liability insurance in respect of its operated international regulations governing liability, operations, training, spill ships to a maximum limit of $1billion for each occurrence through prevention and insurance.
These include: mutual insurance associations P&I Clubs, although there can be no assurance that a spill will necessarily be adequately covered by Liability and spill prevention and planning requirements governing, insurance or that liabilities will not exceed insurance recoveries.
among others, tankers, barges, and offshore facilities are imposed by OPA in US waters.
OPA also mandates a levy on imported and domestically produced oil to fund oil spill responses.
Some states, Legal proceedings including Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California, impose additional liability for oil spills.
Outside US territorial waters, BP Proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon oil Shipping tankers are subject to international liability, spill response spill and preparedness regulations under the UNs International Introduction Maritime Organization IMO, including the International BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP was lease operator of Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, the Mississippi Canyon, Block 252 in the Gulf of Mexico Macondo, International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships MARPOL, the International Convention on Oil Pollution, where the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Horizon was deployed at the time of the 20 April 2010 explosion and fire and Preparedness, Response and Co-operation, and the International resulting oil spill the Incident.
Lawsuits and claims arising from Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage.
In the Incident were brought principally in US federal and state April 2010, the Hazardous and Noxious Substance HNS Protocol courts.
2010 was adopted to address issues that have inhibited ratification of the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Many of the lawsuits in federal court relating to the Incident were Damage in Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious consolidated by the Federal Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Substances by Sea 1996.
As at 31December 2018, as the required Litigation into two multi-district litigation proceedings, one in minimum number of contracting states had not been achieved, the federal district court in Houston for the securities, derivative and HNS Convention had not entered into force.
Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA cases MDL 2185 and another in federal district court in New Orleans for the A global sulphur cap of 0.5% will apply to marine fuel from January remaining cases MDL 2179.
A Plaintiffs Steering Committee 2020 under MARPOL.
In order to comply, ships will either need to PSC was established to act on behalf of individual and business consume low sulphur marine fuels, operate on other low sulphur plaintiffs in MDL 2179.
All federal and state governmental claims fuels such as LNG or implement approved abatement technology in relation to the Incident have now been settled or dismissed to enable them to meet the low sulphur emissions requirements and the 2014 administrative agreement with the US while continuing to use higher sulphur fuel.
This new global cap will not alter the lower limits that apply in the sulphur oxides Emissions Environmental Protection Agency and BPs obligations thereunder Control Areas established by the IMO.
Measures to support ended in March 2019.
The remaining proceedings arising from the consistent global implementation are expected to be finalized in Incident are discussed below.
PSC settlements Under the International Convention for the Control and PSC settlements Economic and Property Damages Settlement Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments 2004, which Agreement entered into force in September 2017, ships in international traffic In 2012 the Economic and Property Damages Settlement was are required to manage their ballast water and sediments to a entered into with the PSC to resolve certain economic and certain standard, according to a ship-specific ballast water property damage claims.
It also resolved property damage in management plan.
certain areas along the Gulf Coast, as well as claims for additional The Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of payments under certain Master Vessel Charter Agreements the North-East Atlantic OSPAR, entered into force in March 1998, entered into in the course of the Vessels of Opportunity Program is an international convention which aims to protect the marine implemented as part of the response to the Incident.
environment of the North-East Atlantic.
OSPAR has 16 contracting The economic and property damages claims process, which is parties, including the UK Government.
Work carried out in under court supervision through the settlement claims process accordance with OSPAR is managed by the OSPAR Commission, established by the Economic and Property Damages Settlement, which is made up of government representatives of the 15 continued during 2018.
Only a very small number of business contracting parties and the EU.
OSPAR Recommendation 2001 1 economic loss claims remain to be determined, although certain relates to the management of produced water from offshore business economic loss claims continue to be appealed by BP installations in the North Sea.
The 2001 recommendation set a and or the claimants.
target of a 15% reduction in the total quantity of oil in produced water discharged by 2006 compared to 2000 levels and a For more information about BPs current estimate of the total performance standard for dispersed oil in produced water cost of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement, see discharged into the sea of 30 mg l. More recently, guidelines for Financial statements Note 2. the implementation of a risk-based approach to the management PSC settlements Medical Benefits ClassAction Settlement of produced water discharges from offshore installations were In 2012 the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement Medical adopted OSPAR Recommendation 2012 5.
This approach supports Settlement was entered into with the PSC.
It involves payments a key goal of the 2001 recommendations, that by 2020 Contracting to qualifying class members based on a matrix for certain Parties should achieve a reduction of oil in produced water Specified Physical Conditions SPCs, as well as a 21-year discharged into the sea to a level which will adequately ensure that Periodic Medical Consultation Program PMCP for qualifying each of those discharges will present no harm to the marine class members, and also includes provisions regarding class environment.
members pursuing claims for later-manifested physical conditions LMPCs.
296 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary The deadline for submitting SPC and PMCP claims was 12 dismissed with prejudice for their failure to comply with the February 2015.
The Medical Claims Administrator has reported courts order.
The district court has not yet ruled on the show the total number of claims submitted is 37,226.
As of 25 January cause submissions.
2019, 27,607 claims comprising 22,833 SPC and 4,774 PMCP Individual securities litigation only have been approved for compensation totalling Following court approval of the settlement of a securities class action approximately $67 million: 9,615 claims have been denied: and 4 brought on behalf of a class of post-explosion American depository claims are pending determination.
share ADS holders in 2017, there remained individual cases filed in In order to seek compensation from BP for an LMPC, class state and federal courts by pension funds, investment funds and members must file a notice with the Medical Claims advisers.
These were against BP entities and several current and Administrator within 4 years after either i the date of first former officers and directors seeking damages for alleged losses diagnosis of the LMPC or ii the effective date of the MSA 12 those funds suffered because of their purchases and or holdings of February 2014, whichever is later.
As of 22 February 2019, there BP ordinary shares and, in certain cases, ADSs.
The funds assert are 2,159 pending lawsuits brought by class members claiming claims under English law and, for plaintiffs purchasing ADSs, federal LMPCs.
All of the cases, with the exception of one case that has been stayed, were transferred to MDL 2185.
As at 31 December Other civil complaints economic loss 2018, 28 actions on behalf of 113 plaintiffs remained pending in MDL PSC settlement - Opt out and Excluded claims 2185.
In 2016, the vast majority of economic loss and property damage Canadian class actions claims from individuals and businesses that either opted out of Following various legal proceedings, on 26 February 2016, a plaintiff the 2012 PSC settlement and or were excluded from that seeking to assert claims under Canadian law against BP on behalf of a settlement were either resolved or dismissed.
Although several class of Canadian residents who allegedly suffered losses because of groups of plaintiffs whose claims were dismissed by the district their purchase of BP ordinary shares and ADSs filed a motion in the court for noncompliance with the district courts prior orders filed Court of Appeal for Ontario to lift a stay on the action.
The plaintiffs appeals in the Fifth Circuit, only a small number of those motion was granted on 29 July 2016.
On 1 September 2017 the court individual and business plaintiffs now have pending appeals.
granted in part and denied in part BPs motion for summary BP-Branded Fuel Dealers judgment, limiting the case to three alleged misstatements and On 23 March 2017, two plaintiffs filed an appeal to the Fifth Circuit narrowing the class period.
On 3 April 2018, the Court of Appeal for from the district courts October 2012 ruling dismissing their Ontario affirmed that decision.
claims on the grounds that alleged losses by dealers of BPNon-US government lawsuits branded fuel allegedly caused by the reputation impact of the spill On 5 April 2011, the Mexican State of Yucatan submitted a claim on the BP brand are not compensable under OPA 90.
On 3 July to the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF alleging potential 2018, the Fifth Circuit affirmed the district courts ruling dismissing damage to its natural resources and environment, and seeking to their claims.
recover the cost of assessing the alleged damage.
This was General Maritime Law Claims followed by a suit against BP which was transferred to MDL On 19 July 2017 the district court held that maritime claims by 215 2179.
On 5 April 2017, BP moved to dismiss the State of Yucatans plaintiffs would be subject to further proceedings in MDL 2179 claims, and the court granted BP's motion to dismiss on 6 March under OPA 90 and under general maritime law.
The court 2018. dismissed with prejudice all other claims for economic loss On 19 April 2013, the Mexican federal government filed a civil action brought by private plaintiffs under general maritime law.
Five against BP and others in MDL 2179.
The complaint sought a groups of plaintiffs filed appeals in the Fifth Circuit from the determination that each defendant was liable under OPA 90 for dismissal of their claims, and two of those appeals remain damages that included the costs of responding to the spill, natural pending.
resource damages allegedly recoverable by Mexico as an OPA 90 MDL 2179 - Other Economic Loss and Property Damage Claims trustee and the net loss of taxes, royalties, fees or net profits.
The On 11 January 2018, the district court issued an order requiring all claims in this civil action were resolved by agreement effective 15 remaining plaintiffs in MDL 2179 with economic loss or property February 2018 and dismissed on 28 March 2018. damage claims to file by 11 April 2018 a verified sworn statement On 18 October 2012, before a Mexican Federal District Court located regarding the actual damages each such plaintiff seeks in its in Mexico City, a class action complaint was filed against BP America pending litigation and an explanation of how those alleged Production Company BPAPC and other BP subsidiaries.
The damages were causally related to the Incident.
On 10 July 2018 plaintiffs, who allegedly are fishermen, are seeking, among other the district court issued an order on those plaintiffs compliance things, compensatory damages for the class members who allegedly with the January 2018 order and on 29 November 2018 ruled on suffered economic losses, as well as an order requiring BP to several motions for reconsideration of its July 2018 compliance remediate environmental damage resulting from the Incident, to order.
In those two orders, the district court identified fewer than provide funding for the preservation of the environment and to 200 plaintiffs with economic loss or property damage claims that conduct environmental impact studies in the Gulf of Mexico for the it deemed to have complied with its January 2018 order, and it next 10 years.
On 15 May 2018, BP was formally served with the dismissed the remaining economic loss or property damage post-class certification complaint.
On 27 June 2018, BP answered the claims with prejudice.
complaint by seeking dismissal on various grounds including that no oil reached Mexican waters or land and there was no economic or Other civil complaints personal injury environmental harm in Mexico.
The vast majority of post-explosion clean-up, medical monitoring and personal injury claims from individuals that either opted out On 3 December 2015 and 29 March 2016, Acciones Colectivas fide of the 2012 PSC settlement and or were excluded from that Sinaloa ACS filed two class actions which have since been settlement have been dismissed.
consolidated in a Mexican Federal District Court on behalf of several Mexican states against BPXP, BPAPC, and other purported BP On 9 April 2018 the district court in MDL 2179 issued an order subsidiaries.
In these class actions, plaintiffs seek an order requiring requiring the 981 plaintiffs whose claims for post-explosion cleanthe BP defendants to repair the damage to the Gulf of Mexico, to pay up, medical monitoring and personal injury claims occurring after penalties, and to compensate plaintiffs for damage to property, to the Incident remain pending in MDL 2179 to file a sworn health and for economic loss.
BPXP was formally served with the statement providing detailed information regarding their claims.
BPXP opposed class certification and On 20 September 2018, the district court issued an order sought dismissal on 1 February 2018, principally on the basis that that requiring more than 150 plaintiffs whose responses to the 9 April no oil reached Mexican waters or land and there was no economic or 2018 order BP deemed to be materially deficient to show cause environmental harm in Mexico.
BPAPC was formally served with the in writing by 11 October 2018 why their claims should not be BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 297 See Glossary
