Capital and reserves continued Treasury shares Treasury shares represent BP shares repurchased and available for specific and limited purposes.
For accounting purposes, shares held in Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs and by BPs US share plan administrator to meet the future requirements of the employee sharebased payment plans are treated in the same manner as treasury shares and are, therefore, included in the financial statements as treasury shares.
The ESOPs are funded by the company and have waived their rights to dividends in respect of such shares held for future awards.
Until such time as the shares held by the ESOPs vest unconditionally to employees, the amount paid for those shares is shown as a reduction in shareholders equity.
Assets and liabilities of the ESOPs are recognized as assets and liabilities of the company.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of the foreign currency branch.
Upon disposal of foreign operations, the related accumulated exchange differences are recycled to the income statement.
Profit and loss account The balance held on this reserve is the accumulated retained profits of the company.
The profit and loss account reserve includes $24,107 million 2017 $24,107 million, the distribution of which is limited by statutory or other restrictions.
The financial statements for the year ended 31December2018 do not reflect the dividend announced on 5February 2019 and paid in March 2019: this will be treated as an appropriation of profit in the year ended 31 December 2019.
Financial guarantees The company has issued guarantees under which the maximum aggregate liabilities at 31December2018 were $77,965 million 2017 $75,824 million, the majority of which relate to finance debt of subsidiaries.
Also included are guarantees of subsidiaries' liabilities under the Consent Decree between the United States, the Gulf states and BP and under the settlement agreement with the Gulf states in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
The company has also issued uncapped indemnities and guarantees, including a guarantee of subsidiaries liabilities under the Plaintiffs Steering Committee agreement relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
Uncapped indemnities and guarantees are also issued in relation to potential losses arising from environmental incidents involving ships leased and operated by a subsidiary.
Share-based payments Effect of share-based payment transactions on the companys result and financial position $ million 2018 2017 Total expense recognized for equity-settled share-based payment transactions 429 397 Total credit expense recognized for cash-settled share-based payment transactions 9 9 Total expense recognized for share-based payment transactions 420 406 Closing balance of liability for cash-settled share-based payment transactions 27 54 Total intrinsic value for vested cash-settled share-based payments 23 58 Additional information on the companys share-based payment plans is provided in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
Auditors remuneration Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements provides details of the remuneration of the companys auditor on a group basis.
Directors remuneration $ million Remuneration of directors 2018 2017 Total for all directors Emoluments 8 9 a Amounts awarded under incentive schemes 16 9 Total 24 18 a Excludes amounts relating to past directors.
Emoluments These amounts comprise fees paid to the non-executive chairman and the non-executive directors and, for executive directors, salary and benefits earned during the relevant financial year, plus cash bonuses awarded for the year.
Further information is provided in the Directors remuneration report on page 87.
The parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. on pages 238-271 do not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with theSEC.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 249
