We operated the assets through the year until the sale Upstream analysis by region and transfer of ownership completed at the end of November 2018.
Our upstream operations are set out below by geographical area, with In November as part of the sale of Rhum to Serica Energy plc the associated significant events for 2018.
BPs percentage working US Office of Foreign Assets Control issued a joint licence to BP interest in oil and gas assets is shown in brackets.
Working interest is and Serica permitting certain US persons and US owned and the cost-bearing ownership share of an oil or gas lease.
Consequently, controlled companies to support Rhum activities in compliance the percentages disclosed for certain agreements do not necessarily with US primary sanctions and a letter of comfort permitting all reflect the percentage interests in proved reserves and production.
non-US persons to support Rhum activities in compliance with US In addition to exploration, development and production activities, our secondary sanctions.
The Rhum field is now owned by Serica upstream business also includes midstream and liquefied natural gas 50% and the Iranian Oil Company U. K. Limited IOC, 50% under LNG supply activities.
Midstream activities involve the ownership a joint operating agreement.
The shares in IOC are now held in and management of crude oil and natural gas pipelines, processing trust.
See International Trade Sanctions on page 298. facilities and export terminals, LNG processing facilities and In November we announced the start-up of production at Clair transportation, and our natural gas liquids NGLs processing Ridge the second phase of development at the Clair field.
new, bridge-linked platforms and oil and gas export pipelines have Our LNG supply activities are located in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Australia, been constructed as part of the project.
The new facilities, which Indonesia and Trinidad.
We market around 3.5 million tonnes per required capital investment in excess of $6 billion, are designed for annum of our LNG production to IST, which uses contractual rights to around 40 years of production.
access import terminal capacity in the liquid markets of Italy Rovigo, the Netherlands Gate, Spain Bilbao, the UK the Isle of Grain and North America the US Cove Point, with the remainder marketed directly to Our upstream activities in North America are located in five areas: customers.
LNG is supplied to customers in markets including deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Lower 48 states, Alaska, Canada and Argentina, China, the Dominican Republic, India, Japan, Kuwait, South Mexico.
BP has around 240 lease blocks in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and operates four production hubs.
Europe BP is active in the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea.
In 2018 BPs In October we announced the start-up of the Northwest Expansion production came from three key areas: the Shetland area comprising project at our Thunder Horse platform, under budget and ahead of the Clair, Foinaven, Magnus and Schiehallion fields: the central area schedule.
The project, which achieved first oil just 16 months after comprising the Andrew area, Bruce, ETAP, Keith, Kinnoull and Rhum being sanctioned, adds a new subsea manifold and two wells tied fields: and Norway, through our equity accounted 30% interest in into existing flowlines two miles to the north of the platform.
new project is expected to boost production at Thunder Horse and is the third major field expansion there in recent years.
In July we announced that we had entered into an agreement with ConocoPhillips to increase our holding in the Clair field prior to the We participated in lease sales 250 and 251 during the year, and increase BP 29% and operator by 16.5%, while selling our nonwere awarded 44 leases in total.
operated interest in the Greater Kuparuk Area on the North Slope In December BP received approval from the Bureau of Safety of Alaska as well as our holding in the Kuparuk Transportation Environmental Enforcement of the assignment of Chevrons Company.
Clair is the largest oilfield on the UK Continental Shelf.
interest in the Tiber and Guadalupe leases.
BP now has a 100% The transaction completed in December.
working interest in these leases.
In September we received approval from the Oil and Gas Authority Exploration write-offs totalling $447 million were recognized in OGA to proceed with the Vorlich development BP 66% and 2018, driven primarily by lease relinquishment $131 million of this operator.
Located 240 kilometres east of Aberdeen, in the central was recognized as a non-operating item.
North Sea, Vorlich will consist of two wells tied back to the existing Ithaca Energy-operated FPF-1 floating production facility.
The In February 2019 we announced the start-up of the Constellation development is part of a programme of North Sea subsea tie-back project BP 66.67%, operated by Anadarko.
developments that seek to access new production from fields See also Financial statements Note 1 for further information on located near to established producing infrastructure.
The field is exploration leases.
expected to come onstream in 2020.
The US Lower 48 onshore new combined business, following In October EnQuest notified BP that it would exercise its option to acquisition of BHP's unconventional assets see below, has acquire the remaining 75% of BPs stake in the Magnus field and significant operated and non-operated activities across Colorado, associated infrastructure.
The disposal completed at the end of Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas and Wyoming producing November.
EnQuest acquired the initial 25% of BPs interest in the natural gas, oil, NGLs and condensate.
It had a 2.4 billion boe proved Magnus field and associated infrastructure in December 2017. reserve base as at 31December 2018, predominantly in Also in October we received approval from OGA to proceed with unconventional reservoirs tight gas, shale gas and coalbed the Alligin development BP 50% and operator.
Located 140 methane, and newly acquired shale oil.
This resource spans 3.5 kilometres west of Shetland, Alligin is part of the Greater million net developed acres and has approximately 12,000 operated Schiehallion area.
We announced our intention to develop it in April.
gross wells, with daily net production around 500mboe d. The development will consist of two wells tied back to the existing Since the beginning of 2015, our US Lower 48 onshore business has Schiehallion and Loyal subsea infrastructure, and is expected to operated as a separate business while remaining part of our come onstream in 2020.
With its own governance, systems and Development progressed at the Total-operated Culzean field BP processes, it was established to increase competitive performance 32% during the year.
The field will be developed with three fixed through swift decision making and innovation, while maintaining BPs platforms and a floating storage unit.
At the end of 2018, commitment to safe, reliable and compliant operations.
In October construction activities were complete and the hook-up and 2018 we announced that we had changed the name of our Lower 48 commissioning activities were underway, with first production business to BPX Energy.
In October we completed the acquisition of BHPs US In November 2017 we announced that we had agreed to sell a unconventional assets in a landmark deal that will significantly package of our interests in the North Sea comprising the Bruce BP upgrade our US onshore oil and gas portfolio and help drive long- 37%, Keith BP 35% and Rhum BP 50% fields, three bridgeterm growth.
The acquisition, which was announced in July, adds linked platforms and associated subsea infrastructure to Serica oil and gas production of 190mboe d in the liquids-rich regions of BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 279 See Glossary the Permian and Eagle Ford basins in Texas and in the Haynesville offshore exploration licences in Nova Scotia, Newfoundland and natural gas basin in East Texas and Louisiana.
Labrador and the Canadian Beaufort Sea.
As part of the BHP acquisition announcement, BPX Energy expects The government of Canada continued with its plans to introduce to divest some existing assets to shift the organizations core focus legislation to allow it to suspend any oil and gas activities in the towards the newly-acquired BHP assets.
The divestment includes Beaufort Sea.
core positions in San Juan, Wamsutter, Anadarko, Arkoma, legacy In Mexico, we have interests in two exploration joint operations in East Texas and Southwest Oklahoma basins, as well as diversified the Salina Basin with Equinor and Total, Block 1 BP 33% and non-operated royalty and working interests across the US Lower operator and Block 3 BP 33%, and in one exploration joint operation 48. in the Sureste Basin with Total and Hokchi, a subsidiary of Pan BPs onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and related American Energy Group PAEG, Block 34 BP 42.5% and operator.
transportation assets are included in the Downstream segment.
Both Salina Basin operations received exploration plan approval in March from Comisin Nacional fide Hidrocarburos CNH, the Mexican In Alaska, BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA operated nine North regulator.
Seismic interpretation and well pre-spud activities are Slope oilfields in the Greater Prudhoe Bay area at the end of the year.
taking place in 2018 and 2019 with the tentative plan to commence For the past four years BP has slowed decline at Prudhoe Bay through drilling in the first half of 2020.
The Sureste Basin operation submitted wellwork and improved operating field efficiencies, with production an exploration plan for approval to CNH at the end of December.
Infrastructure renewal activities in 2018 included compressor replacements, fire and gas system upgrades, South America safety system upgrades, pipeline renewal, and facility piping upgrade BP has upstream activities in Brazil and Trinidad& Tobago and through projects.
BP owns significant interests in three producing fields PAEG, in Argentina and Bolivia.
operated by others, as well as a non-operating interest in the Liberty development project and owned significant interests in an additional In Brazil BP has interests in 25 exploration concessions across five five producing fields operated by others prior to the sale of our basins.
interest in the Greater Kuparuk Area see below.
In the North Campos basin, BP was nominated as operator In July we announced the sale of our non-operated 39.2% interest following Anadarko's withdrawal from both the BM-C-30 and BMin the Greater Kuparuk Area on the North Slope comprising five C-32 blocks.
Regulatory consent is being sought for both fields, as well as our holding in the Kuparuk Transportation Anadarko's exit and the operatorship transfer.
The consortium Company to ConocoPhillips.
The transaction received all regulatory decided not to perform the previously planned extended well test approvals and closed in December, with a retroactive effective date during the year.
Instead it elected to finalize the appraisal plans and of 1 July 2018. request a postponement of up to five years to decide whether the projects are commercially feasible.
During this period, the In May 2018 BP signed a Gas Sales Precedent Agreement with the consortium will assess alternative development concepts.
Approval Alaska Gas Development Corporation detailing key terms for of this request by the Brazilian National Petroleum Agency ANP is potential future gas sales to the State.
In addition, in September an still pending.
amendment to the Point Thomson development plan was agreed with the State to better align field milestones to those of the BP continues to progress the preparatory activities for drilling Alaska LNG project.
exploration wells in the Foz do Amazonas Basin, with a BPoperated well scheduled to start drilling in 2021.
An extension BP Pipelines Alaska Inc. BPPA owns a 49% interest in the Transrequest to August 2020 was approved by the ANP regarding the Alaska Pipeline System TAPS.
TAPS transports crude oil from BP-operated Block FZA-M-59.
BP is monitoring developments on Prudhoe Bay on the Alaska North Slope to the port of Valdez in its other non-operated interests in the Foz fide Amazonas basin BP southcentral Alaska.
In April 2012 Unocal 1.37% gave notice to the 30% to establish an expected drilling activity schedule.
other TAPS owners of their intention to withdraw as an owner of TAPS.
The remaining owners and Unocal have not yet reached In the South Campos basin, BP's request for a contract suspension agreement regarding the terms for the transfer of Unocals interest in in Block BM-C-35 is under review by the ANP.
BP won Blocks C-M-755 and C-M-793 at the 15th bid round in In 2017 the parties involved in TAPS tariff matters at the Federal March in a consortium with Equinor BP 60%.
Energy Regulatory Commission FERC and the Regulatory In June BP won the licence for the Dois Irmos block located in the Commission of Alaska RCA reached an agreement to settle all Campos basin, offshore Brazil, as a result of the fourth Pre-Salt pending legal challenges involving TAPS interstate rates at FERC Production Sharing Contract Bid Round Petrobras operator 45%, for the years 2009-15 and establish a mechanism for calculating BP 30%, and Equinor 25%.
interstate rate ceilings for TAPS for the period from 2016 through 2021, as well as subsequent years unless otherwise terminated.
BP accessed new acreage in the Santos basin, offshore Brazil in The agreement resolved all challenges involving TAPS intrastate September by winning the licence for the Pau Brasil block BP 50% rates from 2008 to 2019 and established intrastate rate ceilings for and operator.
This represents BPs first operated production the future through to 30 June 2019.
RCA approval was granted in sharing acreage in the Santos basin.
January and FERC approval in February and all associated In October drilling commenced at the Peroba block BP 40%.
Well settlement amounts and tariff refunds were paid.
results are expected in the first quarter of 2019.
In September BP Alaska removed one of its four Alaska grade In Argentina and Bolivia BP conducts activity through PAEG, a joint crude oil tankers from service the vessel Frontier.
Historically, BP venture that is owned by BP 50% and Bridas Corporation 50%.
Alaska has utilized four tankers to carry crude oil shipments from PAEG also has activities in Mexico.
With the reduction in volume over time, as well as new efficiencies identified in the shipping programme, Frontier has In Trinidad& Tobago BP holds exploration and production licences and been removed from service and its carrying value impaired production-sharing agreements PSAs covering 1.8 million acres accordingly.
offshore of the east and north-east coast.
Facilities include 14 offshore platforms and two onshore processing facilities.
Production In Canada BP is focused on oil sands development as well as comprises gas and associated liquids.
We utilize in-situ steamassisted gravity drainage SAGD technology in our oil sands BP also has a shareholding in the Atlantic LNG liquefaction plant.
BPs developments, which uses the injection of steam into the reservoir to shareholding averages 39% across four LNG trains with a warm the bitumen so that it can flow to the surface through combined capacity of 15million tonnes per annum.
We sell gas to producing wells.
We hold interests in three oil sands lease areas train 1, 2 and 3 and process gas in train 4.
All LNG from train 1 and through the Sunrise Oil Sands and Terre fide Grace partnerships and most of the LNG from trains 2 and 3 is sold to third parties under the Pike Oil Sands joint operation.
In addition, we have significant 280 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary long-term contracts.
BPs LNG entitlement from trains 2, 3 and 4 is The Atoll field in the North Damietta concession came fully marketed to the US, Europe, Asia and South America.
In December, the Cassia compression project was sanctioned.
This In 2018 exploration write-offs of $236 million were recognized, the project involves the installation of a new compression platform most significant being $169 million in connection with withdrawal Cassia C, bridge-linked to the Cassia B processing platform and from the Rahamat lease.
providing lowered wellhead pressures to fields served by the Cassia Following concept sanction in 2017, BP continued progressing the hub.
The expected project start-up date is 2021.
Two wells are planned in 2019 followed by Negotiations of three historical upstream commercial issues were further development wells in 2020.
A new nine-slot platform will be completed with the government of the Republic of Trinidad & installed and tied back to existing infrastructure Abu Madi through Tobago at the end of 2018.
This resulted in a payment of $144 a new offshore and onshore pipeline.
In December BP announced it had acquired a 25% interest in the The Atlantic LNG Train 1 gas supply contract is currently being Nour North Sinai offshore concession area from Eni.
The negotiated for the period April 2019 to September 2024. concession is in the East Nile Delta Basin.
Eni, the operator, is currently carrying out drilling of the first exploration well and will Discussions are ongoing with partners in the Manakin project on the remain the operator with a 40% stake in the concession.
BP will Unit Operating Agreement UOA, Field Development Plan and hold a 25% interest, Mubadala Petroleum 20% and Tharwa subsurface arrangements following declaration of commerciality in Petroleum Company 15%.
The UOA is expected to be agreed in 2019.
Manakin, discovered in 1998, is a cross-border field with Venezuela.
In February 2019 BP announced the start-up of gas production from the Giza and Fayoum fields in the West Nile Delta development BP In October the Bongos exploration well in the deepwater Block 14 82.75%.
This development comprises five fields across the North BP 30% was announced as a discovery.
Assessment of the well Alexandria and West Mediterranean deepwater offshore blocks and results is currently in progress.
is being developed as three separate projects to enable BP and its The Angelin project, sanctioned in June 2017, involves the partners to accelerate gas production commitments to Egypt.
The construction of a new platform, BPs 15th offshore production first of these three projects Taurus and Libra started production in facility, 60 kilometres off the south-east coast of Trinidad in water 2017, Giza and Fayoum is the second, and the third project Raven depths of approximately 65 metres.
The development includes four is expected to be onstream in 2019. wells, with gas from Angelin flowing to the Cassia B hub for In Libya, BP partners with the Libyan Investment Authority LIA in an processing via a new pipeline to the Serrette platform.
During 2018 exploration and production-sharing agreement EPSA to explore the jacket and topsides were installed and subsea skid and pipeline acreage in the onshore Ghadames and offshore Sirt basins BP 85%.
The first well was completed in BP wrote off all balances associated with the Libya EPSA in 2015.
January 2019 and the project commenced production in February In October we announced that we had signed an agreement with 2019. the Libyan National Oil Corporation and Eni with a view to working Africa together to resume exploration activities in Libya.
The parties have agreed to work towards Eni acquiring a 42.5% interest in the BPBPs upstream activities in Africa are located in Algeria, Angola, Cte operated EPSA in Libya.
On completion, Eni would also become d'Ivoire, Egypt, Libya, Madagascar, Mauritania, So Tom & Prncipe operator of the EPSA.
The companies are working to finalize and and Senegal.
complete all agreements with a target of resuming exploration In Algeria BP, Sonatrach and Equinor are partners in the In Salah BP activities in 2019.
33.15% and In Amenas BP 45.89% projects that supply gas to the In Mauritania and Senegal, BP has a 62% participating interest in the domestic and European markets.
C-6, C-8, C-12 and C-13 exploration blocks in Mauritania and a 60% In December 2017 BP and Equinor signed an extension agreement participating interest in the Cayar Profond and St Louis Profond for the In Amenas production sharing contract with Sonatrach, the exploration blocks in Senegal.
Together these blocks cover Algerian state-owned energy company.
The agreement was approximately 33,000 square kilometres.
BP also has a 15% interest formally ratified in April 2018. in the C-18 exploration block, operated by Total.
In Angola, BP owns an interest in five major deepwater offshore In February KE announced that the Requin Tigre-1 well in the Saint licences and is operator in two of these, Blocks 18 and 31, that are Louis Profond Block, offshore Senegal, was fully tested but did not producing.
We also have an equity interest in the Angola LNG plant encounter hydrocarbons.
In December BP and partners announced that the FID for Phase 1 During the year a final investment decision FID on Block 17 was of the cross-border Greater Tortue Ahmeyim development had made by the operator, Total, to proceed with the Zinia 2 deep been agreed.
The decision was made following agreement offshore development project BP 16.67%.
between the Mauritanian and Senegalese governments and partners BP, KE and National Oil Companies, Petrosen and In December, BP announced it had taken the FID to progress the SMHPM.
The project will produce gas from an ultra-deepwater Platina project in Block 18.
The agreement also extends the production licence for the Greater Plutonio operation in Block 18 to subsea system and mid-water floating production, storage and offloading FPSO vessel.
The gas will then be transferred to a 2032, and provides for Sonangol to take an 8% equity interest in floating liquefied natural gas FLNG facility at a near-shore hub the block, all subject to government approval.
located on the Mauritania and Senegal maritime border.
The FLNG The Block 25 11 production sharing agreement expired in January facility is designed to provide approximately 2.5 million tonnes of 2019.
The remaining intangible asset of $42 million associated with LNG per annum on average.
The project, the first major gas project the licence acquisition cost was written off at the start of 2018 as to reach FID in the basin, is planned to provide LNG for global no further drilling activity was planned.
export as well as making gas available for domestic use in both Mauritania and Senegal.
First gas for the project is expected in In Cte dIvoire, BP has interests in five offshore oil blocks with 2022.
Kosmos Energy KE under agreements with the government of Cte d'Ivoire and the state oil company Socit Nationale d'Operations In Madagascar, BP signed four production-sharing contracts PSC in Ptrolires fide la Cte d'Ivoire PETROCI BP 45%, KE 45% and 2018 for exploration licences situated offshore northwest operator, PETROCI approximately 10%.
New 3D seismic data was Madagascar, under agreements with the government of Madagascar acquired during the year and analysis of it is ongoing.
represented by Office des Mines Nationales et des Industries Stratgiques OMNIS BP 100%.
In Egypt, BP and its partners currently produce 10% of Egypts liquids production and over 50% of its gas production.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 281 See Glossary In So Tom & Prncipe, BP and KE were awarded two offshore capacity of the pipeline during the first phase is 106mboe d and the blocks in March 2018, under production-sharing agreements with the average throughput in 2018 was 30mboe d. The second phase will government of So Tom & Prncipe represented by Agncia Nacional take gas from Eskishehir to the connection with the Trans Adriatic do Petrleo fide So Tom e Prncipe ANP-STP BP 50% operator, KE Pipeline TAP in Greece.
BP has a 20% interest in TAP, that will take 35% ANP-STP 15%.
During the year work began on environmental gas through Greece and Albania into Italy.
In December TAP entered baseline surveys, with completion anticipated in the second half of into project financing arrangements with multiple lenders.
BP's share 2019. of the funds received as a result of financing is $594 million.
In Oman BP operates the Khazzan field in Block 61 BP 60%.
Asia In April BP announced that, together with its partner the Oman Oil BP has activities in Abu Dhabi, Azerbaijan, China, India, Iraq, Kuwait, Company Exploration & Production OOCEP, it had approved the Oman and Russia.
development of Ghazeer, the second phase of the Khazzan gas In China we have a 30% equity stake in the Guangdong LNG field in Oman.
The Ghazeer project is expected to increase regasification terminal and trunkline project with a total storage production by 50% and will involve construction of a third gas capacity of 640,000 cubic metres.
The project is supplied under a processing train to handle this.
The project is currently on track to long-term contract with Australias North West Shelf venture BP deliver first gas as planned in 2021.
In January 2019 BP announced that together with Eni, they had BP has two PSCs for shale gas exploration, development and signed a heads of agreement HoA with the Ministry of Oil and production in the Neijiang-Dazu block and Rong Chang Bei block in Gas of the Sultanate of Oman to work jointly towards a significant the Sichuan basin.
The two blocks, both in the exploration phase, new exploration opportunity in Oman.
Under the HoA, the two cover a total area of approximately 2,500 square kilometres.
China companies will work with the government of Oman towards the National Petroleum Corporation CNPC is the operator.
In 2018, award of a new EPSA for Block 77 in central Oman.
BP and Eni drilling activity continued to progress in the two blocks in the have entered discussions with the Ministry to finalise details of the Sichuan basin.
Block 77, with a total area of almost 3,100 square In Azerbaijan, BP operates two PSAs,  ACG BP kilometres, is located in central Oman, 30 kilometres east of the 30.37% and Shah Deniz BP 28.83% and also holds a number of BP-operated Block 61. other exploration leases.
In Abu Dhabi, BP holds a 10% interest in the ADNOC onshore In 2012 certain EU and US regulations concerning restrictive concession.
We also have a 10% equity shareholding in ADNOC LNG and a 10% shareholding in the shipping company NGSCO.
ADNOC measures against Iran were issued, which impact the Shah Deniz LNG supplied approximately 5.4million tonnes of LNG 729bcfe joint venture in which Naftiran Intertrade Co Ltd NICO, a regasified in 2018.
Our interest in the ADNOC onshore concession subsidiary of the National Iranian Oil Company, holds a 10% expires at the end of 2054. interest.
The EU sanctions and certain US secondary sanctions in respect of Iran were lifted or suspended as part of the Joint In March 2019 ADNOC and ADNOC LNG agreed to extend the Comprehensive Plan of Action.
However, in November the US gas supply agreement to 2040.
The new agreement will take secondary sanctions were reinstated.
For further information see effect from 1 April 2019, and replaces an existing agreement International trade sanctions on page 298. expiring on 31 March 2019.
In April we announced that we had signed a new PSA with the Our interest in the ADNOC offshore concession expired in March State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic SOCAR for the joint 2018.
The concession, together with all related rights and obligations, exploration and development of Block D230 in the North Absheron has reverted back to the government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
The block lies 135 kilometres north-east of Baku in the In 2016 BP signed an enhanced technical service agreement for south Caspian Sea, covering an area of 3,200 square kilometres.
Under and east Kuwait conventional oilfields, which includes the Burgan the PSA, which is for 25 years, BP will be the operator during the field, with Kuwait Oil Company.
Target performance for the 2017-18 exploration phase and hold a 50% interest, with SOCAR holding plan was delivered and implementation of the 2018-19 plan is the remaining 50%.
The signing of the PSA follows the underway.
memorandum of understanding for exploration of Block D230, which was agreed in May 2016.
In India we have a participating interest in two oil and gas PSAs KG D6 30% and NEC25 33.33% both operated by Reliance Industries In July we announced the start-up of the landmark Shah Deniz Limited RIL.
We also have a stake in a 50:50 joint venture India Gas Stage 2 gas development in Azerbaijan, including its first Solutions Private Limited with RIL for the sourcing and marketing of commercial gas delivery to Turkey.
The BP-operated $28 billion gas in India.
project is the first subsea development in the Caspian Sea and the largest subsea infrastructure operated by BP worldwide.
It is also In April BP and RIL sanctioned the Satellite Cluster project in Block the starting point for the Southern Gas Corridor series of pipelines KG D6.
This is the second of three projects in the Block KG D6 that will deliver natural gas from the Caspian Sea direct to integrated development.
The first of the projects, development of European markets for the first time.
the R-Series deep-water gas fields, was sanctioned in June 2017 and is currently under development.
The Satellite Cluster is a dry BP holds a 30.1% interest in and operates the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil gas development and comprises four discoveries with a five-well pipeline.
The 1,768-kilometre pipeline transports oil from the BPsubsea development in Block KG D6, off the east coast of India.
It is operated ACG oilfield and gas condensate from the Shah Deniz gas expected to come on stream in 2021. field in the Caspian Sea, along with other third-party oil, to the eastern Mediterranean port of Ceyhan.
The pipeline has a capacity of In Iraq BP holds a 47.6% working interest and is the lead contractor in 1mmboe d, with an average throughput in 2018 of 697mboe d. the Rumaila technical service contract in southern Iraq.
The technical services contract runs to December 2034.
Rumaila is one of the BP is technical operator of, and currently holds a 28.83% interest in, worlds largest oil fields, comprising five producing reservoirs.
the 693 kilometre South Caucasus Pipeline.
The pipeline takes gas from Azerbaijan through Georgia to the Turkish border and has a In January 2018 BP entered into a letter of intent to work on the capacity of 143mboe d, with average throughput in 2018 of Kirkuk field which extends until 2019.
142mboe d. BP as operator of Azerbaijan International Operating In Russia in addition to its 19.75% equity interest in Rosneft, BP Company also operates the Western Route Export Pipeline that holds a 20% interest in Taas-Yuryakh Neftegazodobycha Taas transports ACG oil to Supsa on the Black Sea coast of Georgia, with together with Rosneft 50.1% and a consortium comprising Oil India an average throughput of 76mboe d in 2018.
Limited, Indian Oil Corporation Limited and Bharat PetroResources BP also holds a 12% interest in the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Limited 29.9%.
Taas is developing the Srednebotuobinskoye oil and Pipeline.
In the first phase, which commenced in June, gas from gas condensate field in East Siberia see Rosneft on page 34 for Shah Deniz is transported from Georgia to Eskishehir in Turkey.
Also with Rosneft, we hold a 49% interest in Yermak 282 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary Neftegaz LLC, which conducts exploration in the West Siberian and BP is also one of five participants in the Browse LNG venture Yenisei-Khatanga basins.
Yermak Neftegaz LLC currently holds seven operated by Woodside and holds a 17.33% interest.
The venture has carried out The Browse project participants finalized evaluating a range of further appraisal work on the Baikalovskoye field, an existing Rosneft development options for the project and have selected to develop discovery in the Yenisei-Khatanga area of mutual interest.
Browse by connecting it via a 900 kilometre pipeline to the NWS In the second quarter, the Taas-Yuryakh expansion project venture's Karratha gas plant.
A final investment decision is completed commissioning of the main project facilities for the expected in 2021.
This decision has resulted in the write-off of $136 Srednebotuobinskoye oil and gas condensate.
million in relation to previous project development costs for Browse.
Also in the second quarter BP acquired a 49% stake in LLCKharampurneftegaz to develop subsoil resources jointly with In October we announced the start-up of production at our Western Rosneft within the Kharampurskoe and Festivalnoye licence areas in Flank B project BP 16.67%, ahead of schedule.
During the year, the Ocean Great White rig contract was cancelled In September Rosneft and BP also agreed to jointly explore two and a commercial arrangement entered into with the lessor additional oil and gas licence areas located in Sakha Yakutia.
The whereby BP will utilize different rigs on projects in the future.
licences are expected to be held by a Yermak subsidiary.
Completion In Papua Barat, Eastern Indonesia, BP operates the Tangguh LNG of the deal, subject to external approvals, is expected in 2019. plant BP 40.22%.
The asset currently comprises 16 producing wells, two offshore platforms, two pipelines and an LNG plant with two Australasia production trains.
It has a total capacity of 7.6million tonnes of LNG BP has activities in Australia and Eastern Indonesia.
Tangguh supplies LNG to customers in Indonesia, In Australia BP is one of seven participants in the North West Shelf Mexico, China, South Korea, and Japan through a combination of long, medium and short-term contracts.
NWS venture, which has been producing LNG, pipeline gas, condensate, LPG and oil since the 1980s.
Six partners including BP The Tangguh expansion project is progressing on schedule with the hold an equal 16.67% interest in the gas infrastructure and an equal installation of two offshore platforms completed and the 15.78% interest in the gas and condensate reserves, with a seventh construction of the onshore LNG production train and supporting partner owning the remaining 5.32%.
BP also has a 16.67% interest facilities currently ongoing.
Drilling on the first of 13 new in some of the NWS oil reserves and related infrastructure.
The NWS production wells commenced in early 2019, and first production is venture is currently the largest single source supplier to the domestic expected in 2020.
The project will add 3.8 million tonnes per market in Western Australia and one of the largest LNG export annum mtpa of production capacity to the existing facility, projects in the region, with five LNG trains in operation.
BPs net bringing total plant capacity to 11.4mtpa.
share of the capacity of NWS LNG trains 1-5 is 2.7million tonnes of LNG per year.
In November approval from the government of Indonesia to relinquish BPs 32% interest in the Chevron-operated West Papua I was received.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 283 See Glossary
