Because of the inherent limitations in all that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute affect our internal control over financial reporting.
assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud within the company, if any, have been detected.
Further, in the design and Principal accountant's fees and evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures our management necessarily was required to apply its judgement in evaluating the services costs and benefits of possible control and procedure design options.
The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the Also, we have investments in unconsolidated entities.
As we do not engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm, control these entities, our disclosure controls and procedures with Deloitte LLP, to render audit and certain assurance services.
The respect to such entities are necessarily substantially more limited policies provide for pre-approval by the audit committee of specifically than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
defined audit, audit-related, non-audit and other services that are not Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, prohibited by regulatory or other professional requirements.
Deloitte misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
is engaged for these services when its expertise and experience of The companys disclosure controls and procedures have been BP are important.
Most of this work is of an audit nature.
The policy designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, has been updated such that non-audit tax services provided by the reasonable assurance standards.
audit firm from 2017 onwards are prohibited.
The companys management, with the participation of the companys Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specific services within the group chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the following categories: advice on accounting, auditing and financial effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures reporting matters: internal accounting and risk management control pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period reviews excluding any services relating to information systems covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the group design and implementation : non-statutory audit: project assurance chief executive and chief financial officer have concluded that the and advice on business and accounting process improvement companys disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a excluding any services relating to information systems design and reasonable assurance level.
implementation relating to BPs financial statements or accounting records : due diligence in connection with acquisitions, disposals and Managements report on internal control over joint arrangements excluding valuation or involvement in financial reporting prospective financial information : provision of, or access to, Deloitte Management of BP is responsible for establishing and maintaining publications, workshops, seminars and other training materials: adequate internal control over financial reporting.
BPs internal control provision of reports from data gathered on non-financial policies and over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision information: provision of the independent third party audit in of the principal executive and financial officers to provide reasonable accordance with US Generally Accepted Government Auditing assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the Standards, over the companys Conflict Minerals Report where such preparation of BPs financial statements for external reporting a report is required under the SEC rule Conflict Minerals, issued in purposes in accordance with IFRS.
accordance with Section 1502 of the Dodd Frank Act: and assistance with understanding non-financial regulatory requirements.
BP As of the end of the 2018 fiscal year, management conducted an operates a two-tier system for audit and non-audit services.
For audit assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial related services, the audit committee has a pre-approved aggregate reporting in accordance with the criteria in the UK Financial Reporting level, within which specific work may be approved by management.
Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Non-audit services are pre-approved for management to authorize per Related Financial and Business Reporting relating to internal control individual engagement, but above a defined level must be approved over financial reporting.
Based on this assessment, management has by the chairman of the audit committee or the full committee.
In determined that BPs internal control over financial reporting as of response to the revised regulatory guidelines of the UK Financial 31December 2018 was effective.
Reporting Council, the audit committee reviewed and updated its Managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal control policies with effect from 1 January 2017 and in 2018 further updated over financial reporting excluded Petrohawk Energy Corporation, its policies to clarify the engagement of the incoming auditor, which was acquired on 31 October 2018.
Petrohawk financial Deloitte, and the outgoing auditor and auditor of Rosneft Ernst & statements constitute 10.3% and 4.0% of net and total assets Young to ensure independence.
The defined maximum level for prerespectively, 0.2% of revenues, and 0.05% of net income of the approval has been reduced in line with FRC guidance on non-trivial consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year engagements.
The audit committee has delegated to the chairman of ended 31 December 2018.
This exclusion is in accordance with the the audit committee authority to approve permitted services provided general guidance issued by the SEC that an assessment of a recent that the chairman reports any decisions to the committee at its next business combination may be omitted from managements report on scheduled meeting.
Any proposed service not included in the internal control over financial reporting in the first year of approved service list must be approved in advance by the audit consolidation.
committee chairman and reported to the committee, or approved by The companys internal control over financial reporting includes the full audit committee in advance of commencement of the policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records engagement.
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditor each dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that year.
The audit fees payable to Deloitte are reviewed by the transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of committee in the context of other global companies for cost financial statements in accordance with IFRS and that receipts and effectiveness.
The committee keeps under review the scope and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations results of audit work and the independence and objectivity of the of management and the directors of BP: and provide reasonable auditor.
External regulation and BP policy requires the auditor to assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized rotate its lead audit partner every five years.
See Financial statements acquisition, use or disposition of BPs assets that could have a Note 36 and Audit committee report on page 79 for details of fees material effect on our financial statements.
BPs internal control over for services provided by the auditor.
financial reporting as of 31December 2018 has been audited by Deloitte, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated Directors report information in their report appearing on page 127 of BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018.
This section of BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 forms part of, and includes certain disclosures which are required by law to be Changes in internal control over financial reporting included in, the Directors report.
There were no changes in the groups internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by the Form 20-F Indemnity provisions BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 301 See Glossary
