Glossary PTA Abbreviations Purified terephthalic acid.
ADR RC American depositary receipt.
ADS SEC American depositary share.
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Barrel bbl 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
Definitions Unless the context indicates otherwise, the definitions for the bcf d following glossary terms are given below.
Billion cubic feet per day.
Non-GAAP measures are sometimes referred to as alternative bcfe performance measures.
Adjusted effective tax rate ETR b d Non-GAAP measure.
The adjusted ETR is calculated by dividing Barrels per day.
taxation on an underlying replacement cost RC basis excluding the impact of reductions in the rate of the UK North Sea supplementary boe d charge in 2016 and 2015 by underlying RC profit or loss before tax.
Barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Taxation on an underlying RC basis is taxation on a RC basis for the GAAP period adjusted for taxation on non-operating items and fair value Generally accepted accounting practice.
Information on underlying RC profit or loss is provided below.
BP believes it is helpful to disclose the adjusted ETR Gas because this measure may help investors to understand and evaluate, Natural gas.
in the same manner as management, the underlying trends in BPs operational performance on a comparable basis, period on period.
The GHG nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is the ETR on profit or Greenhouse gas.
A reconciliation to GAAP information is provided GWh on page 320.
We are unable to present reconciliations of forward-looking HSSE information for adjusted ETR to ETR on profit or loss for the period, Health, safety, security and environment.
because without unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast accurately certain adjusting items required to present a meaningful IFRS comparable GAAP forward-looking financial measure.
These items International Financial Reporting Standards.
include the taxation on inventory holding gains and losses, nonoperating items and fair value accounting effects, that are difficult to KPIs predict in advance in order to include in a GAAP estimate.
Associate LNG An entity over which the group has significant influence and that is Liquefied natural gas.
neither a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement of the group.
Significant LPG influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating Liquefied petroleum gas.
policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
mb d Thousand barrels per day.
Brent A trading classification for North Sea crude oil that serves as a major mboe d benchmark price for purchases of oil worldwide.
Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Capital expenditure mmb d or Mb d Total cash capital expenditure as stated in the group cash flow Million barrels per day.
mmboe d Consolidation adjustment UPII Million barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Unrealized profit in inventory arising on inter-segment transactions.
mmBtu Commodity trading contracts Million British thermal units.
BPs Upstream and Downstream segments both participate in mmcf d regional and global commodity trading markets in order to manage, transact and hedge the crude oil, refined products and natural gas Million cubic feet per day.
that the group either produces or consumes in its manufacturing mmte or Mte operations.
These physical trading activities, together with associated Million tonnes.
incremental trading opportunities, are discussed in Upstream on page 22 and in Downstream on page 28.
The range of contracts the group MteCO2 enters into in its commodity trading operations is described below.
Million tonnes of CO equivalent.
2 Using these contracts, in combination with rights to access storage MW and transportation capacity, allows the group to access advantageous Megawatt.
pricing differences between locations, time periods and arbitrage between markets.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 315 Exchange-traded commodity derivatives Divestment proceeds Contracts that are typically in the form of futures and options traded Disposal proceeds as per the group cash flow statement.
on a recognized exchange, such as Nymex and ICE.
Such contracts Dividend yield are traded in standard specifications for the main marker crude oils, Sum of the four quarterly dividends announced in respect of the year such as Brent and West Texas Intermediate: the main product grades, as a percentage of the year-end share price on the respective such as gasoline and gasoil: and for natural gas and power.
losses, otherwise referred to as variation margin, are generally settled on a daily basis with the relevant exchange.
These contracts are used Effective tax rate ETR on replacement cost RC profit or loss for the trading and risk management of crude oil, refined products, Non-GAAP measure.
The ETR on RC profit or loss is calculated by and natural gas and power.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses dividing taxation on a RC basis by RC profit or loss before tax.
on exchange-traded commodity derivatives are included in sales and Information on RC profit or loss is provided below.
BP believes it is other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
helpful to disclose the ETR on RC profit or loss because this measure excludes the impact of price changes on the replacement of Over-the-counter contracts inventories and allows for more meaningful comparisons between Contracts that are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and reporting periods.
The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is options.
Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between the ETR on profit or loss for the period.
A reconciliation to GAAP counterparties or through brokers, others may be cleared by a central information is provided on page 320. clearing counterparty.
These contracts can be used both for trading and risk management activities.
Realized and unrealized gains and Fair value accounting effects losses on over-the-counter OTC contracts are included in sales and Non-GAAP adjustments to IFRS profit or loss.
We use derivative other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
Many grades of instruments to manage the economic exposure relating to inventories crude oil bought and sold use standard contracts including US above normal operating requirements of crude oil, natural gas and domestic light sweet crude oil, commonly referred to as West Texas petroleum products.
Under IFRS, these inventories are recorded at Intermediate, and a standard NorthSea crude blendBrent, Forties, historical cost.
The related derivative instruments, however, are Oseberg and Ekofisk BFOE.
Forward contracts are used in required to be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized connection with the purchase of crude oil supplies for refineries, in the income statement.
This is because hedge accounting is either products for marketing and sales of the groups oil production and not permitted or not followed, principally due to the impracticality of refined products.
The contracts typically contain standard delivery and  requirements.
These transactions call for physical delivery of oil differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses occur.
Gains with consequent operational and price risk.
However, various means and losses on these inventories are not recognized until the exist and are used from time to time, to settle obligations under the commodity is sold in a subsequent accounting period.
Gains and contracts in cash rather than through physical delivery.
Because the losses on the related derivative commodity contracts are recognized physically settled transactions are delivered by cargo, the BFOE in the income statement, from the time the derivative commodity contract additionally specifies a standard volume and tolerance.
contract is entered into, on a fair value basis using forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Gas and power OTC markets are highly developed in North America and the UK, where commodities can be bought and sold for delivery BP enters into physical commodity contracts to meet certain in future periods.
These contracts are negotiated between two parties business requirements, such as the purchase of crude for a refinery to purchase and sell gas and power at a specified price, with delivery or the sale of BPs gas production.
Under IFRS these physical and settlement at a future date.
Typically, the contracts specify contracts are treated as derivatives and are required to be fair valued delivery terms for the underlying commodity.
Some of these when they are managed as part of a larger portfolio of similar transactions are not settled physically as they can be achieved by transactions.
Gains and losses arising are recognized in the income transacting offsetting sale or purchase contracts for the same statement from the time the derivative commodity contract is location and delivery period that are offset during the scheduling of entered into.
The contracts contain standard terms such as IFRS require that inventory held for trading is recorded at its fair value delivery point, pricing mechanism, settlement terms and specification using period-end spot prices, whereas any related derivative of the commodity.
Typically, volume, price and term e. g. daily, commodity instruments are required to be recorded at values based monthly and balance of month are the main variable contract terms.
on forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Depending Swaps are often contractual obligations to exchange cash flows on market conditions, these forward prices can be either higher or between two parties.
A typical swap transaction usually references a lower than spot prices, resulting in measurement differences.
floating price and a fixed price with the net difference of the cash BP enters into contracts for pipelines and other transportation, flows being settled.
Options give the holder the right, but not the storage capacity, oil and gas processing and liquefied natural gas obligation, to buy or sell crude, oil products, natural gas or power at a LNG that, under IFRS, are recorded on an accruals basis.
These specified price on or before a specific future date.
Amounts under contracts are risk-managed using a variety of derivative instruments these derivative financial instruments are settled at expiry.
Typically, that are fair valued under IFRS.
This results in measurement netting agreements are used to limit credit exposure and support differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses.
The way that BP manages the economic exposures described above, Spot and term contracts and measures performance internally, differs from the way these Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the activities are measured under IFRS.
BP calculates this difference for market price prevailing on or around the delivery date when title to consolidated entities by comparing the IFRS result with the inventory is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or managements internal measure of performance.
Under sell a commodity at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though managements internal measure of performance the inventory, spot and term contracts may have a standard form, there is no transportation and capacity contracts in question are valued based on offsetting mechanism in place.
These transactions result in physical fair value using relevant forward prices prevailing at the end of the delivery with operational and price risk.
Spot and term contracts period.
The fair values of derivative instruments used to risk manage typically relate to purchases of crude for a refinery, products for certain oil, gas and other contracts, are deferred to match with the marketing, or third-party natural gas, or sales of the groups oil underlying exposure and the commodity contracts for business production, oil products or gas production to third parties.
For requirements are accounted for on an accruals basis.
We believe that accounting purposes, spot and term sales are included in sales and disclosing managements estimate of this difference provides useful other operating revenues when title passes.
Similarly, spot and term information for investors because it enables investors to see the purchases are included in purchases for accounting purposes.
economic effect of these activities as a whole.
A reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on page 320.
316 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 In addition, from 2018 fair value accounting effects include changes in Joint arrangement the fair value of the near-term portions of LNG contracts that fall An arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control.
within BPs risk management framework.
LNG contracts are not Joint control considered derivatives, because there is insufficient market liquidity, Contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement, which and they are therefore accrual accounted under IFRS.
However, oil exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the and natural gas derivative financial instruments used to risk manage unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
the near-term portions of the LNG contracts are fair valued under IFRS.
The fair value accounting effect reduces timing differences Joint operation between recognition of the derivative financial instruments used to A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the risk manage the LNG contracts and the recognition of the LNG arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the contracts themselves, which therefore gives a better representation liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
of performance in each period.
Comparative information has not been Joint venture restated on the basis that the effect was not material.
A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the Free cash flow arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
Operating cash flow less net cash used in investing activities, as Liquids presented in the group cash flow statement.
Comprises crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
For the Full dividend Upstream segment, it also includes bitumen.
Full dividend is cash dividend plus cash equivalent value of scrip LNG train dividend.
An LNG train is a processing facility used to liquefy and purify natural Gearing gas in the formation of LNG.
See Net debt and net debt ratio definition.
Major projects Gross debt ratio Have a BP net investment of at least $250million, or are considered Gross debt ratio is defined as the ratio of gross debt to the total of to be of strategic importance to BP or of a high degree of complexity.
gross debt plus shareholders' equity.
Net debt and net debt ratio gearing Henry Hub Non-GAAP measures.
Net debt is calculated as gross finance debt, as A distribution hub on the natural gas pipeline system in Erath, shown in the balance sheet, plus the fair value of associated Louisiana, that lends its name to the pricing point for natural gas derivative financial instruments that are used to hedge foreign futures contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange and currency exchange and interest rate risks relating to finance debt, for the over-the-counter swaps traded on Intercontinental Exchange.
which hedge accounting is applied, less cash and cash equivalents.
The net debt ratio is defined as the ratio of net debt to the total of net Hydrocarbons debt plus total shareholders equity.
All components of equity are Liquids and natural gas.
Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at included in the denominator of the calculation.
BP believes these 5.8billion cubic feet 1million barrels.
measures provide useful information to investors.
Net debt enables Inorganic capital expenditure investors to see the economic effect of gross debt, related hedges A subset of capital expenditure and is a non-GAAP measure.
and cash and cash equivalents in total.
The net debt ratio enables Inorganic capital expenditure comprises consideration in business investors to see how significant net debt is relative to equity from combinations and certain other significant investments made by the shareholders.
The derivatives are reported on the balance sheet group.
It is reported on a cash basis.
BP believes that this measure within the headings Derivative financial instruments.
See Financial provides useful information as it allows investors to understand how statements Note 27 for information on gross debt, which is the BPs management invests funds in projects which expand the groups nearest equivalent measure to net debt on an IFRS basis.
An analysis of organic capital We are unable to present reconciliations of forward-looking expenditure by segment and region, and a reconciliation to GAAP information for net debt ratio to gross debt ratio, because without information is provided on page 275. unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast accurately certain adjusting items required to present a meaningful comparable GAAP Inventory holding gains and losses forward-looking financial measure.
These items include fair value The difference between the cost of sales calculated using the asset liability of hedges related to finance debt and cash and cash replacement cost of inventory and the cost of sales calculated on the equivalents, that are difficult to predict in advance in order to include first-in first-out FIFO method after adjusting for any changes in in a GAAP estimate.
provisions where the net realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost.
Under the FIFO method, which we use for IFRS Net generating capacity reporting, the cost of inventory charged to the income statement is The sum of the rated capacities of the assets turbines that have based on its historical cost of purchase or manufacture, rather than its entered into commercial operation, including BPs share of equityreplacement cost.
In volatile energy markets, this can have a accounted entities.
The gross data is the equivalent capacity on a significant distorting effect on reported income.
The amounts gross-joint venture basis, which includes 100% of the capacity of disclosed represent the difference between the charge to the income equity-accounted entities where BP has partial ownership.
statement for inventory on a FIFO basis after adjusting for any related movements in net realizable value provisions and the charge Non-operating items that would have arisen based on the replacement cost of inventory.
Charges and credits are included in the financial statements that BP For this purpose, the replacement cost of inventory is calculated discloses separately because it considers such disclosures to be using data from each operations production and manufacturing meaningful and relevant to investors.
They are items that system, either on a monthly basis, or separately for each transaction management considers not to be part of underlying business where the system allows this approach.
The amounts disclosed are operations and are disclosed in order to enable investors better to not separately reflected in the financial statements as a gain or loss.
understand and evaluate the groups reported financial performance.
No adjustment is made in respect of the cost of inventories held as Non-operating items within equity-accounted earnings are reported part of a trading position and certain other temporary inventory net of incremental income tax reported by the equity-accounted positions.
See Replacement cost RC profit or loss definition below.
An analysis of non-operating items by segment and type is shown on page 276.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 317 Operating cash flow relating to the lubricants and petrochemicals businesses, are not Net cash provided by used in operating activities as stated in the included in RMI.
BP believes that disclosing the amounts of RMI and group cash flow statement.
When used in the context of a segment paid-up RMI is useful to investors as it enables them to better rather than the group, the terms refer to the segments share thereof.
understand and evaluate the groups inventories and liquidity position by enabling them to see the level of discretionary inventory held by Operating cash flow excluding Gulf of Mexico oil spill payments IST and to see builds or releases of liquid trading inventory.
It is calculated by excluding post-tax operating Paid-up RMI excludes RMI which has not yet been paid for.
For cash flows relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill as reported in inventory that is held in storage, a first-in first-out FIFO approach is Financial statements Note 2 from net cash provided by operating used to determine whether inventory has been paid for or not.
Unpaid activities as reported in the group cash flow statement.
BP believes RMI is RMI which has not yet been paid for by BP.
RMI, RMI at fair net cash provided by operating activities excluding amounts related to value, Paid-up RMI and Unpaid RMI are non-GAAP measures.
A the Gulf of Mexico oil spill is a useful measure as it allows for more reconciliation of total inventory as reported on the group balance meaningful comparisons between reporting periods.
The nearest sheet to paid-up RMI is provided on page 322. equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is net cash provided by operating activities.
Realizations Realizations are the result of dividing revenue generated from Organic free cash flow is operating cash flow excluding Gulf of hydrocarbon sales, excluding revenue generated from purchases Mexico oil spill payments less organic capital expenditure.
made for resale and royalty volumes, by revenue generating Operating cash margin hydrocarbon production volumes.
Revenue generating hydrocarbon Operating cash margin is operating cash flow divided by the production reflects the BP share of production as adjusted for any applicable number of barrels of oil equivalent produced, at $52 bbl flat production which does not generate revenue.
Expected operating cash margins are calculated over the include losses due to shrinkage, amounts consumed during period 2016-2025. processing, and contractual or regulatory host committed volumes such as royalties.
For the Upstream segment, realizations include Operating management system OMS transfers between businesses.
BPs OMS helps us manage risks in our operating activities by setting out BPs principles for good operating practice.
It brings together BP Refining availability requirements on health, safety, security, the environment, social Represents Solomon Associates operational availability, which is responsibility and operational reliability, as well as related issues, defined as the percentage of the year that a unit is available for such as maintenance, contractor relations and organizational learning, processing after subtracting the annualized time lost due to into a common management system.
turnaround activity and all planned mechanical, process and regulatory downtime.
Organic capital expenditure A subset of capital expenditure and is a non-GAAP measure.
Organic Refining marker margin RMM capital expenditure comprises capital expenditure less inorganic The average of regional indicator margins weighted for BPs crude capital expenditure.
BP believes that this measure provides useful refining capacity in each region.
Each regional marker margin is based information as it allows investors to understand how BPs on product yields and a marker crude oil deemed appropriate for the management invests funds in developing and maintaining the groups region.
The regional indicator margins may not be representative of assets.
An analysis of organic capital expenditure by segment and the margins achieved by BP in any period because of BPs particular region, and a reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on page refinery configurations and crude and product slate.
Refining net cash margin per barrel We are unable to present reconciliations of forward-looking Refining net cash margin is defined by Solomon Associates as the net information for organic capital expenditure to total cash capital margin achieved after subtracting cash operating expenses and expenditure, because without unreasonable efforts, we are unable to adding any refinery revenue from other sources.
Net cash margin is forecast accurately the adjusting item, inorganic capital expenditure, expressed in US dollars per barrel of net refinery input.
that is difficult to predict in advance in order to derive the nearest GAAP estimate.
Refinery utilization Refinery utilization is calculated as annual throughput thousands of Organic sources of cash and organic uses of cash barrels per day divided by crude distillation capacity.
Organic sources of cash is the sum of operating cash flow, excluding Gulf of Mexico oil spill payments, and proceeds Replacement cost RC profit or loss of loan repayments.
Organic uses of cash is the sum of organic Reflects the replacement cost of inventories sold in the period and is capital expenditure, dividends and share buybacks.
The nearest arrived at by excluding inventory holding gains and losses from profit equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for organic sources of cash is or loss.
RC profit or loss is the measure of profit or loss that is net cash provided by operating activities and the nearest equivalent required to be disclosed for each operating segment under IFRS.
measures on an IFRS basis for organic uses of cash are total cash RCprofit or loss for the group is a non-GAAP measure.
Management capital expenditure, dividends paid to BP shareholders and net issue believes this measure is useful to illustrate to investors the fact that repurchase of shares.
crude oil and product prices can vary significantly from period to period and that the impact on our reported result under IFRS can be Production-sharing agreement PSA Production-sharing significant.
Inventory holding gains and losses vary from period to contract period due to changes in prices as well as changes in underlying An arrangement through which an oil and gas company bears the inventory levels.
In order for investors to understand the operating risks and costs of exploration, development and production.
In return, performance of the group excluding the impact of price changes on if exploration is successful, the oil company receives entitlement to the replacement of inventories, and to make comparisons of variable physical volumes of hydrocarbons, representing recovery of operating performance between reporting periods, BPs management the costs incurred and a stipulated share of the production remaining believes it is helpful to disclose this measure.
The nearest equivalent after such cost recovery.
measure on an IFRS basis is profit or loss attributable to BP shareholders.
A reconciliation to Readily marketable inventory RMI GAAP information is provided on page 274.
RMI is inventory held and price risk-managed by our integrated supply and trading function IST which could be sold to generate funds if RC profit or loss per share required.
It comprises oil and oil products for which liquid markets are Non-GAAP measure.
Earnings per share is defined in Financial available and excludes inventory which is required to meet operational statements Note 11.
RC profit or loss per share is calculated using requirements and other inventory which is not price risk-managed.
The numerator used is RC profit or loss RMI is reported at fair value.
Inventory held by the Downstream fuels attributable to BP shareholders rather than profit or loss attributable business for the purpose of sales and marketing, and all inventories to BP shareholders.
BP believes it is helpful to disclose the RC profit 318 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 or loss per share because this measure excludes the impact of price or loss in order to enable a full understanding of the events and their changes on the replacement of inventories and allows for more financial impact.
BP believes that underlying RC profit or loss is a meaningful comparisons between reporting periods.
The nearest useful measure for investors because it is a measure closely tracked equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is basic earnings per share by management to evaluate BPs operating performance and to make based on profit or loss for the period attributable to BP shareholders.
financial, strategic and operating decisions and because it may help A reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on page 320. investors to understand and evaluate, in the same manner as management, the underlying trends in BPs operational performance Reserves replacement ratio on a comparable basis, year on year, by adjusting for the effects of The extent to which the years production has been replaced by these non-operating items and fair value accounting effects.
proved reserves added to our reserve base.
The ratio is expressed in The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for the group is oil-equivalent terms and includes changes resulting from discoveries, profit or loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
The nearest improved recovery and extensions and revisions to previous equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for segments is RC profit or loss estimates, but excludes changes resulting from acquisitions and before interest and taxation.
Underlying profit in the group chief disposals.
executives letter on page 8 refers to full year underlying RC profit for Return on average capital employed the group.
A reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on page Non-GAAP measure.
Return on average capital employed ROACE is 274. underlying replacement cost profit, after adding back non-controlling Underlying replacement cost RC profit or loss per share interest and interest expense net of tax for the comparative periods Non-GAAP measure.
Earnings per share is defined Financial interest expense was net of notional tax at an assumed 35%, divided statements Note 11.
Underlying RC profit or loss per share is by average capital employed, excluding cash and cash equivalents and calculated using the same denominator.
The numerator used is goodwill.
Interest expense is finance costs excluding the unwinding underlying RC profit or loss attributable to BP shareholders rather of the discount on provisions and other payables before tax.
BP than profit or loss attributable to BP shareholders.
BP believes it is believes it is helpful to disclose the ROACE because this measure helpful to disclose the underlying RC profit or loss per share because gives an indication of the company's capital efficiency.
The nearest this measure may help investors to understand and evaluate, in the GAAP measures of the numerator and denominator are profit or loss same manner as management, the underlying trends in BPs for the period attributable to BP shareholders and average capital operational performance on a comparable basis, period on period.
The reconciliation of the numerator and nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is basic earnings per denominator is provided on page 321. share based on profit or loss for the period attributable to BP We are unable to present forward-looking information of the nearest shareholders.
A reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on GAAP measures of the numerator and denominator for ROACE, page 320. because without unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast accurately certain adjusting items required to calculate a meaningful Upstream plant reliability comparable GAAP forward-looking financial measure.
These items BP-operated Upstream plant reliability is calculated taking 100% less include inventory holding gains or losses and interest net of tax, that the ratio of total unplanned plant deferrals divided by installed are difficult to predict in advance in order to include in a GAAP production capacity.
Unplanned plant deferrals are associated with estimate.
the topside plant and where applicable the subsea equipment excluding wells and reservoir.
Unplanned plant deferrals include Subsidiary breakdowns, which does not include Gulf of Mexico weather related An entity that is controlled by the BP group.
Control of an investee downtime.
exists when an investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect Upstream unit production cost those returns through its power over the investee.
Upstream unit production cost is calculated as production cost divided by units of production.
Production cost does not include ad Tier 1 process safety events valorem and severance taxes.
Units of production are barrels for Losses of primary containment from a process of greatest liquids and thousands of cubic feet for gas.
Amounts disclosed are for consequence - causing harm to a member of the workforce, costly BP subsidiaries only and do not include BPs share of equitydamage to equipment or exceeding defined quantities.
represents reported incidents occurring within BPs operational HSSE reporting boundary.
That boundary includes BPs own operated Wellwork facilities and certain other locations or situations.
Activities undertaken on previously completed wells with the primary objective to restore or increase production.
Tight oil and gas Natural oil and gas reservoirs locked in hard sandstone rocks with low West Texas Intermediate WTI permeability, making the underground formation extremely tight.
A light sweet crude oil, priced at Cushing, Oklahoma, which serves as a benchmark price for purchases of oil in the US.
UK National Balancing Point A virtual trading location for sale, purchase and exchange of UK Working capital natural gas.
It is the pricing and delivery point for the Intercontinental Movements in inventories and other current and non-current assets Exchange natural gas futures contract.
and liabilities as stated in the group cash flow statement.
Unconventionals Trade marks Resources found in geographic accumulations over a large area, that Trade marks of the BP group appear throughout this report.
They usually present additional challenges to development such as low include: ACTIVE, Aral, ARCO, BP, BPme, BP Ultimate, Castrol, Castrol permeability or high viscosity.
Examples include shale gas and oil, EDGE BIO-SYNTHETIC, Castrol GTX ECO, Castrol Opitgear, PTAir coalbed methane, gas hydrates and natural bitumen deposits.
These Trade marks: typically require specialized extraction technology such as hydraulic fracturing or steam injection.
Butamax a registered trade mark of Butamax Advance Biofuels LLC.
Underlying production Fulcrum and Fulcrum BioEnergy registered trade marks of Fulcrum Production after adjusting for acquisitions and divestments and BioEnergy, Inc. entitlement impacts in our production-sharing agreements.
M&S Simply Food a registered trade mark of Marks & Spencer plc.
Underlying RC profit or loss MyAuchan a registered trade mark of Auchan.
RC profit or loss after adjusting for nonREWE to Go a registered trade mark of REWE.
operating items and fair value accounting effects.
See page 276 and 320 for additional information on the non-operating items and fair value accounting effects that are used to arrive at underlying RC profit BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 319
