Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 The financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31December2018 were approved and signed by the group chief executive on 29March2019 having been duly authorized to do so by the board of directors.
The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements FRS 100 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Accordingly, these financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
As permitted by FRS 101, the company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available in relation to: a the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: b the requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: c the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: d the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors in relation to standards not yet effective: e the requirements of paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: and f the requirements of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member.
g the requirement of the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113 a, 114,115, 118, 119 a to c, 120 to 127 and 129 of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements of BP p. l. c. As permitted by Section408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement of the company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except where otherwise indicated.
Significant accounting policies: use of judgements, estimates and assumptions Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements is the need for management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses.
Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
The accounting judgements and estimates that have a significant impact on the results of the company are set out in boxed text below, and should be read in conjunction with the information provided in the Notes on financial statements.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost.
The company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the company makes an estimate of its recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an investment exceeds its recoverable amount, the investment is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Where these circumstances have reversed, the impairment previously made is reversed to the extent of the original cost of the investment.
Foreign currency translation The functional and presentation currency of the financial statements is US dollars.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the functional currency at the spot exchange rate on the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than those measured at fair value, are not retranslated subsequent to initial recognition.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by a non-US dollar functional currency branch are translated into US dollars are recognized in a separate component of equity and reported in other comprehensive income.
Income statement transactions are translated into US dollars using the average exchange rate for the reporting period.
Financial guarantees The company enters into financial guarantee contracts with its subsidiaries.
At the inception of a financial guarantee contract, a liability is recognized initially at fair value and then subsequently at the higher of the estimated loss and amortized cost.
Where a guarantee is issued for a premium, a receivable of an amount equal to the liability is initially recognized.
Subsequently, the liability and receivable reduce by the amount of consideration received, which is recognized in the income statement.
Where a guarantee is issued without a premium, the fair value is recognized as additional investment in the entity to which the guarantee relates.
The parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. on pages 238-271 do not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with theSEC.
240 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees of the company and other members of the group is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments on the date on which they are granted and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the employees become fully entitled to the award.
A corresponding credit is recognized within equity.
Fair value is determined by using an appropriate, widely used, valuation model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company market conditions.
Non-vesting conditions, such as the condition that employees contribute to a savings-related plan, are taken into account in the grant-date fair value, and failure to meet a nonvesting condition, where this is within the control of the employee, is treated as a cancellation and any remaining unrecognized cost is expensed.
For other equity-settled share-based payment transactions, the goods or services received and the corresponding increase in equity are measured at the fair value of the goods or services received, unless their fair value cannot be reliably estimated.
If the fair value of the goods and services received cannot be reliably estimated, the transaction is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, measured by reference to the fair value of the corresponding liability which is recognized on the balance sheet.
The liability is remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date until settlement, with changes in fair value recognized in the income statement.
Pensions The defined benefit pension plans are plans that share risks between entities under common control.
In each instance BP p. l. c. is the principal employer and carries the whole plan surplus or deficit on its balance sheet.
The cost of providing benefits under the companys defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
Past service costs, resulting from either a plan amendment or a curtailment a reduction in future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the plan membership, are recognized immediately when the company becomes committed to a change.
Net interest expense relating to pensions, which is recognized in the income statement, represents the net change in present value of plan obligations and the value of plan assets resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the present value of the benefit obligation at the start of the year, and to the fair value of plan assets at the start of the year, taking into account expected changes in the obligation or plan assets during the year.
Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability and asset, comprising actuarial gains and losses, and the return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest described above are recognized within other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur and are not subsequently reclassified to profit and loss.
The defined benefit pension plan surplus or deficit recognized on the balance sheet for each plan comprises the difference between the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds and the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price.
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses are only recognized to the extent they are recoverable, typically by way of refund.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
Significant estimate: pensions Accounting for defined benefit pensions involves making significant estimates when measuring the company's pension plan surpluses and deficits.
These estimates require assumptions to be made about many uncertainties.
Pension assumptions are reviewed by management at the end of each year.
These assumptions are used to determine the projected benefit obligation at the year end and hence the surpluses and deficits recorded on the companys balance sheet, and pension expense for the following year.
The assumptions used are provided in Note 4.
The assumptions that are the most significant to the amounts reported are the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and mortality levels.
Assumptions about these variables are based on the environment in each country.
The assumptions used vary from year to year, with resultant effects on future net income and net assets.
Changes to some of these assumptions, in particular the discount rate and inflation rate, could result in material changes to the carrying amounts of the companys pension obligations within the next financial year for the UK plan.
Any differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome will also affect future net income and net assets.
The values ascribed to these assumptions and a sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in the assumptions on the benefit expense and obligation used are provided in Note 4.
Income taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the related tax is recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is based on the taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it is determined in accordance with the rules established by the applicable taxation authorities.
It therefore excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods as well as items that are never taxable or deductible.
The companys liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that they will be realized in the future.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 241 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
See note 6 for further details.
Financial assets The company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognized initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as set out below.
The company derecognizes financial assets when the contractual rights to the cash flows expire or the financial asset is transferred to a third party.
Financial assets measured at amortized cost Financial assets are classified as measured at amortized cost when they are held in a business model the objective of which is to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest.
Such assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognized in profit or loss when the assets are derecognized or impaired and when interest is recognized using the effective interest method.
This category of financial assets includes trade and other receivables.
Cash equivalents Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and generally have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Cash equivalents are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost.
Financial liabilities All financial liabilities held by the company are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost.
Financial liabilities include other payables, accruals, and most items of finance debt.
The company determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost All financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
For interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is typically equivalent to the fair value of the proceeds received, net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognized in interest and other income and finance costs respectively.
This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other payables and finance debt.
Impact of new International Financial Reporting Standards The company adopted two new accounting standards issued by the IASB with effect from 1 January 2018, IFRS 9 Financial instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
There are no other new or amended standards or interpretations adopted during the year that have a significant impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in July 2014 and replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The company adopted IFRS 9 and the related consequential amendments to other IFRSs in the financial reporting period commencing 1 January 2018.
The company has applied the new standard in accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 9.
Comparatives have not been restated and there were no material adjustments on transition reported in opening retained earnings at 1 January 2018.
The companys revised accounting policies in relation to financial instruments are provided above.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued in May 2014 and replaced IAS 18 Revenue and certain other standards and interpretations.
IFRS 15 provides a single model for accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers, focusing on the identification and satisfaction of performance obligations.
The company adopted IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018 and applied the modified retrospective transition approach to implementation.
The company identified no changes in accounting as a result of implementing IFRS 15.
242 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
