and US laws applicable to BP including potentially attending directors whom the board has determined to be independent, in the meetings in connection with this purpose.
The BP board governance principles prescribe the composition, main Material contracts tasks and requirements of each of the committees see the board committee reports on pages 75-86.
BP has not, therefore, adopted On 4 April 2016 the district court approved the Consent Decree separate charters for each committee.
among BP Exploration & Production Inc. BP Corporation North America Inc. BP p. l. c. the United States and the states of Alabama, Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, BP is Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas the Gulf states which fully required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements and finally resolved any and all natural resource damages NRD of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section303A.
06 of the claims of the United States, the Gulf states, and their respective NYSE Listed Company Manual.
BPs audit committee complies with natural resource trustees and all Clean Water Act CWA penalty these requirements.
The BP audit committee does not have direct claims, and certain other claims of the United States and the Gulf responsibility for the appointment, reappointment or removal of the states.
Instead, it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 by making recommendations to the board on these matters for it to Concurrently, the definitive Settlement Agreement that BP entered put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM.
into with the Gulf states Settlement Agreement with respect to State claims for economic, property and other losses became One of the NYSEs additional requirements for the audit committee effective.
states that at least one member of the audit committee is to have accounting or related financial management expertise.
The board BP has filed the Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement as determined that Brendan Nelson possesses such expertise and also exhibits to its Annual Report on Form 20-F 2018 filed with the SEC.
possesses the financial and audit committee experiences set forth in For further details of the Consent Decree and the Settlement both the UK Corporate Governance Code and SEC rules see Audit Agreement, see Legal proceedings in BP Annual Report and Form 20- committee report on page 75.
Mr Nelson is the audit committee F 2015. financial expert as defined in Item16A of Form 20-F. Property, plant and equipment Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate and other The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be tangible assets in numerous countries, but no individual property is given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and significant to the group as a whole.
For more on the significant material revisions to those plans.
BP complies with UK requirements subsidiaries of the group at 31December 2018 and the group that are similar to the NYSE rules.
The board, however, does not percentage of ordinary share capital see Financial statements Note explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of 37.
For information on significant joint ventures and associates of what are considered material revisions.
the group see Financial statements Notes 16 and 17.
Code of ethics The NYSE rules require that US companies adopt and disclose a code Related-party transactions of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees.
Transactions between the group and its significant joint ventures and BPhas adopted a code of conduct, which applies to all employees associates are summarized in Financial statements Note 16 and and members of the board, and has board governance principles that Note 17.
In the ordinary course of its business, the group enters into address the conduct of directors.
In addition BP has adopted a code transactions with various organizations with which some of its of ethics for senior financial officers as required by the SEC.
BP directors or executive officers are associated.
Except as described in considers that these codes and policies address the matters this report, the group did not have any material transactions or specified in the NYSE rules for US companies.
transactions of an unusual nature with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the period commencing 1January 2018 to 15 March Code of ethics 2019.
The company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief executive, chief financial officer, group controller, group head of audit Corporate governance practices and chief accounting officer as required by the provisions of In the US, BP ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Section406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued NYSE.
The significant differences between BPs corporate by the SEC.
There have been no waivers from the code of ethics governance practices as a UK company and those required by NYSE relating to any officers.
listing standards for US companies are listed as follows: BP also has a code of conduct, which is applicable to all employees, Independence officers and members of the board.
This was updated and published in July 2014.
BP has adopted a robust set of board governance principles, which reflect the UK Corporate Governance Code approach to corporate governance.
As such, the way in which BP makes determinations of Controls and procedures directors independence differs from the NYSE rules.
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures BPs board governance principles require that all non-executive The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such directors be determined by the board to be independent in character term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to and judgement and free from any business or other relationship ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports the which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
company files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, The BP board has determined that, in its judgement, all of the nonprocessed, summarized and reported within the time periods executive directors are independent.
In doing so, however, the board specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and did not explicitly take into consideration the independence forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated requirements outlined in the NYSEs listing standards.
to management, including the companys group chief executive and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions Committees regarding required disclosure.
BP has a number of board committees that are broadly comparable in purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, domestic US companies.
For instance, BP has a chairmans rather our management, including the group chief executive and chief than executive committee and remuneration rather than financial officer, recognize that any controls and procedures, no compensation committee.
BP also has an audit committee, which matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, NYSE rules require for both US companies and foreign private not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls issuers.
These committees are composed solely of non-executive 300 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary
