Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are Environmental expenditure usually established on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 $million Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
2018 2017 2016 Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions Operating expenditure 501 441 487 appear in Financial statements Note 23.
Capital expenditure 449 487 564 Clean-ups 31 22 27 Environmental expenditure relating to the Gulf of Additions to environmental Mexicooil spill 428 249 262 remediation provision For full details of all environmental activities in relation to the Gulf of Increase decrease in Mexico oil spill, see Financial statements Note 2.
137 228 804 decommissioning provision Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, Regulation of the groups business treatment or elimination of air and water emissions and solid waste is BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, often not incurred as a separately identifiable transaction.
Instead, it pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals forms part of a larger transaction that includes, for example, normal production, trading, biofuels, wind, solar and shipping activities, are operations and maintenance expenditure.
The figures for subject to a broad range of EU, US, international, regional, and local environmental operating and capital expenditure in the table are legislation and regulations, including legislation that implements therefore estimates, based on the definitions and guidelines of the international conventions and protocols.
These cover virtually all American Petroleum Institute.
aspects of BPs activities and include matters such as licence Environmental operating expenditure of $501 million in 2018 2017 acquisition, production rates, royalties, environmental, health and $441 million showed an overall increase of 14% the largest element safety protection, fuel specifications and transportation, trading, of which was due to higher expenditures associated with sustaining pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes, and foreign exchange.
and increasing production volumes in the Gulf of Mexico region.
Upstream contractual and regulatory framework Environmental capital expenditure in 2018 was lower overall than in 2017 largely due to lower spend resulting from the divestiture of the The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
North Sea Forties Pipeline System and lower expenditure on Arundel, Clair and Schiehallion fields.
These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled Clean-up costs were $31 million in 2018 2017 $22 million company and are sometimes entered into with private property representing increases in oil spill clean-up costs and other associated owners.
Arrangements with governmental or state entities usually remediation and disposal costs as well as costs related to the take the form of licences or production-sharing agreements PSAs, replacement of underground storage tanks in the US.
although arrangements with US government entities are usually by In addition to operating and capital expenditure, we also establish lease.
Arrangements with private property owners are also usually in provisions for future environmental remediation work.
Expenditure the form of leases.
against such provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for, not included in environmental operating expenditure reported for such develop and produce a commercial discovery.
holder bears the risk of exploration, development and production Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up activities and provides the financing for these operations.
In principle, is probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably the licence holder is entitled to all production, minus any royalties that estimated.
Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal are payable in kind.
A licence holder is generally required to pay plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive production taxes or royalties, which may be in cash or in kind.
typically, BP may explore for, develop and produce hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in exchange for The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather than and abatement programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
often depend on the extent of contamination, and the associated impact and timing of the corrective actions required, technological PSAs entered into with a government entity or state-owned or feasibility and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of future controlled company generally require BP alone or with other programmes could be significant and may be material to the results contracting companies to provide all the financing and bear the risk of operations in the period in which they are recognized, it is not of exploration and production activities in exchange for a share of the expected that such costs will be material to the groups overall results production remaining after royalties, if any.
of operations or financial position.
In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and Additions to our environmental remediation provision increased in production activities, and in some cases production licences are 2018 largely due to the scope reassessments of the remediation limited to only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration plans of a number of our sites in the US and Canada.
Both exploration and production licences are generally for a environmental remediation provisions in 2018 included $8 million in specified period of time.
In the US, leases from the USgovernment respect of provisions for new sites 2017 $8 million and 2016 $7 typically remain in effect for a specified term, but may be extended million.
beyond that term as long as there is production in paying quantities.
The term of BPs licences and the extent to which these licences may In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oil and gas be renewed vary from country to country.
producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production BP frequently conducts its exploration and production activities in facility, a provision is established that represents the discounted value joint arrangements or co-ownership arrangements with other of the expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
international oil companies, state-owned or controlled companies and or private companies.
These joint arrangements may be In 2018, the net decrease in the decommissioning provision, similar incorporated or unincorporated arrangements, while the coto the decrease in 2017, was a result of detailed reviews of expected ownerships are typically unincorporated.
Whether incorporated or future costs, partially offset by increases to the asset base.
unincorporated, relevant agreements set out each partys level of We undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews participation or ownership interest in the joint arrangement or cotake account of revised cost assumptions, changes in ownership.
Conventionally, all costs, benefits, rights, obligations, decommissioning requirements and any technological developments.
liabilities and risks incurred in carrying out joint arrangement or coownership operations under a lease or licence are shared among the joint arrangement or co-owning parties according to these agreed ownership interests.
Ownership of joint arrangement or co-owned BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 291 See Glossary property and hydrocarbons to which the joint arrangement or coGreen Climate Fund.
The process for withdrawal can be completed no ownership is entitled is also shared in these proportions.
To the extent earlier than 4 November 2020. that any liabilities arise, whether to governments or third parties, or as At the United Nations climate change conference in Poland COP24 between the joint arrangement parties or co-owners themselves, in December 2018, the Paris Rulebook was agreed.
This rulebook each joint arrangement party or co-owner will generally be liable to describes how the elements of the Paris Agreement will be meet these in proportion to its ownership interest.
In many upstream implemented when it comes into force in 2020.
COP24 failed to operations, a party known as the operator will be appointed agree on rules for implementing Article 6, which could enable pursuant to a joint operating agreement to carry out day-to-day international carbon trading to assist in meeting NDCs.
Discussions operations on behalf of the joint arrangement or co-ownership.
The on Article 6 have now been deferred to COP25 which will take place operator is typically one of the joint arrangement parties or a coin Chile in 2019. owner and will carry out its duties either through its own staff, or by More stringent national and regional measures relating to the contracting out various elements to third-party contractors or service transition to a lower carbon economy can be expected in the future.
BP acts as operator on behalf of joint arrangements and coThese measures could increase BPs production costs for certain ownerships in a number of countries where it has exploration and products, increase compliance and litigation costs, increase demand production activities.
for competing energy alternatives or products with lower-carbon Frequently, work including drilling and related activities will be intensity, and affect the sales and specifications of many of BPs contracted out to third-party service providers who have the relevant products.
Further, such measures could lead to constraints on expertise and equipment not available within the joint arrangement or production and supply and access to new reserves, particularly due to the co-owning operators organization.
The relevant contract will the long term nature of many of BPs projects.
Current and specify the work to be done and the remuneration to be paid and will announced measures and developments potentially affecting BPs typically set out how major risks will be allocated between the joint businesses include the following: arrangement or co-ownership and the service provider.
Generally, the joint arrangement or co-owner and the contractor would respectively United States allocate responsibility for and provide reciprocal indemnities to each In the US, the Obama administration adopted its Climate Action Plan other for harm caused to and by their respective staff and property.
in 2013 and used its existing statutory authority to implement that Depending on the service to be provided, an oil and gas industry plan, including the Clean Air Act CAA and the Mineral Leasing Act service contract may also contain provisions allocating risks and MLA.
BP's operations are affected by regulation in a number of liabilities associated with pollution and environmental damage, ways under the CAA, for example: damage to a well or hydrocarbon reservoirs and for claims from third Stricter GHG regulations, stricter limits on sulphur in fuels, parties or other losses.
The allocation of those risks vary among emissions regulations in the refinery sector and a revised lower contracts and are determined through negotiation between the ambient air quality standard for ozone, finalized by the EPA in parties.
October 2015, are affecting our US operations.
In general, BP incurs income tax on income generated from EPA regulations aimed at methane emissions are in place for production activities whether under a licence or PSA.
In addition, new and modified sources.
As discussed below, the Bureau of depending on the area, BPs production activities may be subject to a Land Management BLM has issued a new waste prevention range of other taxes, levies and assessments, including special rule which rescinded the prior rule regarding methane regulation petroleum taxes and revenue taxes.
The taxes imposed on oil and gas on federal lands.
production profits and activities may be substantially higher than those imposed on other activities, for example in Abu Dhabi, Angola, States may also have separate, stricter air emission laws in Egypt, Norway, the UK, the US, Russia and Trinidad& Tobago.
Despite the US withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, a number of US states, cities and private Greenhouse gas regulation organizations remain committed to meeting Paris Agreement In December 2015, nearly 200 nations at the United Nations climate goals.
A number of states also belong to or are considering change conference in Paris COP21 agreed the Paris Agreement, for joining carbon trading markets e. g. California.
The agreement came into force on As noted below, some of these regulations may be suspended, 4November 2016.
This agreement applies to both developing and revised or rescinded resulting in regulatory uncertainty and developed countries, although in some instances allowances or complex compliance challenges for our affected businesses flexibilities are provided for developing countries.
The Paris Agreement aims to hold the increase in the global average On 28 March 2017, the Trump administration issued Executive temperature to well below 2C above pre-industrial levels and to Order EO 13783 rescinding major elements of the Climate Action pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5C above prePlan, and instructing the Environmental Protection Agency EPA to industrial levels.
There is no quantitative long-term emissions goal.
review and then commence the process of suspending, revising or However, countries aim to reach global peaking of greenhouse gas rescinding certain regulations, including the Clean Power Plan CPP GHG emissions as soon as possible and to undertake rapid which was an important element of the Obama administrations reductions thereafter, so as to achieve a balance between human Climate Action Plan, and the EPA new source methane rule.
caused emissions by sources and removals by sinks of GHGs in the On 21 August 2018, the EPA introduced the Affordable Clean second half of this century.
The Paris Agreement commits all parties Energy ACE Rule, which is intended to address GHG emissions to submit Nationally Determined Contributions NDCs i. e. pledges or from certain stationary sources, and which is intended to replace plans of climate action and pursue domestic measures aimed at the CPP.
The CPP regulations are currently stayed pending achieving the objectives of their NDCs.
Developed country NDCs resolution of existing legal challenges: the EPA may decline to should include absolute emission reduction targets, and developing defend certain of these legal challenges.
When the ACE Rule is countries are encouraged to move towards absolute emission finalized, it is likely to face legal challenges as well.
The outcome reduction targets over time.
The Paris Agreement places binding with respect to these rules may affect electricity generation commitments on countries to report on their emissions and progress practices and prices, reliability of electricity supply, and regulatory made on their NDCs and to undergo international review of collective requirements affecting other GHG emission sources in other progress.
It also requires countries to submit revised NDCs every five sectors and have potential impacts on combined heat and power years, which are expected to be more ambitious with each revision.
Global assessments of progress will occur every five years, starting in In June 2016, the EPA finalized rules aimed at limiting methane 2023.
In the decision adopting the Paris Agreement, an earlier emissions from new and modified sources in the oil and natural gas commitment by developed countries to mobilize $100billion a year by sector in the US by 40-45% from 2012 levels by 2025.
In January 2020 was extended through 2025, with a further goal with a floor of 2017 the BLM's methane rule, aimed at limiting methane $100billion to be set before 2025.
On 1 June 2017, the US announced emissions from oil and gas operations on federal lands also came that it will withdraw from the Paris Agreement.
EO 13783 instructed the Department of Interior DOI to suspending the implementation of the USs NDC and funding for the 292 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary review and possibly suspend, revise or rescind the BLM methane particulates from the combustion of fuels in plants with a rated rule.
In September 2018, BLM finalized a new waste prevention thermal input between one and 50MW.
It also includes rule, which removed many of the provisions of the former BLM requirements to monitor emissions of carbon monoxide CO from methane rule.
The EPA rule and the new waste prevention rule are such plant.
Its requirements are being phased in - the emission limit being challenged by states and NGOs.
The final outcome of the rule values set in the Directive applied from 20December 2018 for new revisions and legal challenges with respect to these EPA and BLM plants and by 2025 or 2030 for existing plants, depending on their rules is uncertain.
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and The National Emission Ceiling Directive 2016 entered into force on Security Act of 2007 impose a renewable fuel mandate the federal 31 December 2016, replacing earlier legislation.
It introduces Renewable Fuel Standard as well as state initiatives that impose stricter emissions limits from 2020 and 2030, with new indicative low GHG emissions thresholds for transportation fuels currently national targets applying from 2025.
EU member states had to adopted in California, through the California Low Carbon Fuel implement the Directive by 1 July 2018.
NECD has been Standard, and in Oregon.
In October 2018, President Trump implemented in the UK by the National Emission Ceiling directed the EPA to conduct rulemaking to extend to E15 gasoline Regulations 2018.
Each EU Member State is also required to the volatility allowance currently given to E10 gasoline under the produce a National Air Pollution Control Programme by 31 March CAA.
Current law allows E15 gasoline to be sold year-round, but 2019 setting out the measures it will take to ensure compliance this rule will make it easier for E15 to meet the more stringent with the 2020 and 2030 reduction commitments.
This rulemaking will also address The EU Fuel Quality Directive affects our production and marketing market reforms of the RFS credit-trading programme, which is of transport fuels.
Revisions adopted in 2009 mandate reductions the open market for renewables credit trading.
EPA has indicated it in the life cycle GHG emissions per unit of energy and tighter hopes to have the rulemaking finalized by the summer 2019 driving environmental fuel quality standards for petrol and diesel.
Other Under the GHG mandatory reporting rule GHGMRR, annual reports on GHG emissions must be filed with the EPA.
In addition Canadas highest emitting province, Alberta, has regulations to direct emissions from affected facilities, producers and targeting large final emitters sites with over 100,000 tonnes of importers exporters of petroleum products, certain natural gas carbon dioxide equivalent per annum with compliance obligations liquids and GHG products are required to report product volumes being based on facility performance relative to product specific and notional GHG emissions as if these products were fully benchmarks.
Compliance is possible by improving emissions combusted.
intensity, the purchase of offsets or the payment of C$30 tonne to the Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund.
In addition, A number of states, municipalities and regional organizations have there is an economy-wide price of carbon policy that covers responded to current and proposed federal changes in emissions not in the scope of the existing regulations for large final environmental regulation and a number of additional state and emitters C$30 tonne in 2019: then escalating in line with Federal regional initiatives in the US will affect our operations.
Additional requirements are in place relating to cap and trade programme started in January 2012 and expanded to electricity generation sources and limits on overall oil sands cover emissions from transportation fuels in 2015.
The Canadian federal government has announced Washington adopted a carbon cap rule that was to become climate change regulations, effective from January 2019, including effective 2017, but the rule has been suspended pending review a national backstop carbon price starting at C$20 tonne in 2019 and before the states supreme court.
escalating to C$50 tonne by 2022 or equivalent system for European Union provinces with cap-and-trade systems, with implementation of the price and associated large emitters pricing system modelled on EU leaders in 2007 endorsed a set of measures to reduce GHG the Alberta  system, use of any funds emissions and encourage renewables in the 2010 to 2020 period.
generated, and outcome reporting being managed by each These include an overall GHG reduction target of 20% by 2020.
Newfoundland & Labrador and Nova Scotia are meet this, a set of regulatory measures were adopted which implementing regulations that meet equivalency requirements of include: a collective national reduction target for emissions not the Federal regulations via economy wide carbon taxes on fuels covered by the EU Emissions Trading System EU ETS Directive: and large emitter programs intensity based for Newfoundland & binding national renewable energy targets of 20% renewable Labrador and cap and trade for Nova Scotia.
energy used in renewable energy sources in the EU, including at least a 10% share of renewable energy in the transport sector China is operating emission trading pilot programmes in five cities under the Renewable Energy Directive: a legal framework to and three provinces.
One of BP's subsidiaries and one of BPs joint promote carbon capture and storage CCS : and a revised EU ETS venture companies in China are participating in these schemes.
A Phase 3. plan to establish a nationwide carbon emissions trading market initially covering the power sector only was promulgated in In October 2014 EU leaders adopted the climate and energy December 2017 by the National Development and Reform framework setting key targets for the year 2030 including at least Commission, which will not supersede the above eight pilot 40% cuts in GHG emissions from 1990 levels.
The GHG reduction programmes immediately but allow those pilot schemes to be target is to be achieved by a 43% reduction of emissions from incorporated into the national scheme gradually.
In 2018, the sectors covered by the EU ETS, and a 30% GHG reduction by Climate Change Bureau was transferred to the newly formed Member States for all other GHG emissions.
Measures to achieve Ministry for Ecology & Environment as part of the overall ministerial the 2030 targets include a significant revision of the EU ETS for restructuring.
The Climate Change Bureau remains in charge of the Phase 4 agreed in 2017, which addresses the surplus allowances in nationwide Emission Trading Scheme with no changes to the 2017 the system and the amount of free allocation for sectors prone to implementation plan.
In mid-2018 a 32% share of renewable energy and a 32.5% increase in energy efficiency was agreed In July 2016, China carried out pilot programmes on compensation which must be met by EU Member States by 2030.
The package for and trading of energy quotas in four provinces which may be also sets a renewable energy target of 14% for the transportation further expanded in or after 2020.
pilot scheme on the issuance and voluntary purchase and trading of renewable energy green power certificates was launched, and draft On 28 November 2018 the European Commission presented its regulation issued in 2018.
The scheme is expected to undergo long-term Energy and Climate Strategy that sets a vision towards further testing in 2019 before becoming mandatory.
Generators will a net-zero GHG emissions economy by the mid-twenty first be able to obtain certificates, which then can be sold to the two century.
No secondary trading is foreseen initially.
The Medium Combustion Plants Directive MCPD applies to air emissions of sulphur dioxide SO2, nitrogen oxides NOx and BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 293 See Glossary China has also adopted more stringent vehicle tailpipe emission The CAA regulates air emissions, permitting, fuel specifications standards and vehicle efficiency standards to address air pollution and other aspects of our production, distribution and marketing and GHG emissions.
These standards will have an impact on activities.
transportation fuel product mix and overall demand.
In addition, The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and China has also introduced a mandate for sales of new energy Security Act of 2007 affect our US fuel markets by, among other vehicles NEVs commencing in 2020.
This will accelerate NEV things, imposing the limitations discussed above under penetration into the light vehicle sector and impact light fuel Greenhouse gas regulation.
EPA regulations impose light, medium demand.
and heavy duty vehicle emissions standards for GHGs both fuel For information on the steps that BP is taking in relation to climate economy and tailpipe standards as well as for nonroad engines change issues and for details of BPs GHG reporting, see and vehicles and permitting requirements for certain large GHG Sustainability Climate change on page 45. stationary emission sources.
California also imposes Low Emission Vehicle LEV and Zero Emission Vehicle ZEV standards on vehicle Other environmental regulation manufacturers and a number of other states impose different Current and proposed fuel and product specifications, emission stricter GHG emission limits on vehicles.
These regulations may controls including control of vehicle emissions, climate change impact fuel demand and product mix in California and those states programmes and regulation of unconventional oil and gas extraction adopting LEV and ZEV standards and may impact BPs product mix under a number of environmental laws may have a significant effect and demand for particular products.
on the production, sale and profitability of many of BPs products.
In August 2018 the US Department of Transportation and EPA There are also environmental laws that require BP to remediate and issued a joint proposed rulemaking to establish new or revised fuel restore areas affected by the release of hazardous substances or economy and tailpipe carbon dioxide emissions standards for hydrocarbons associated with our operations or properties.
These passenger cars and light trucks covering model years MY 2021 laws may apply to sites that BP currently owns or operates, sites that through 2026.
The Trump administrations proposed option would it previously owned or operated, or sites used for the disposal of its lock in the 2020 standards until 2026.
This would be a rollback from and other parties waste.
See Financial Statements Note 23 for the Obama Administrations rules.
The agencies have said they information on provisions for environmental restoration and intend to finalize this rulemaking in Spring 2019.
would also eliminate the waiver allowing California and other states to set their own LEV and ZEV standards.
California and other states A number of pending or anticipated governmental proceedings have announced their intention to litigate if such a rule is finalized.
against certain BP group companies under environmental laws could result in monetary or other sanctions.
Group companies are also The Clean Water Act regulates wastewater and other effluent subject to environmental claims for personal injury and property discharges from BPs facilities, and BP is required to obtain damage alleging the release of, or exposure to, hazardous discharge permits, install control equipment and implement substances.
The costs associated with future environmental operational controls and preventative measures.
remediation obligations, governmental proceedings and claims could The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act regulates the be significant and may be material to the results of operations in the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of wastes period in which they are recognized.
We cannot accurately predict the associated with our operations and can require corrective action at effects of future developments, such as stricter environmental laws locations where such wastes have been disposed of or released.
or enforcement policies, or future events at our facilities, on the group, and there can be no assurance that material liabilities and The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and costs will not be incurred in the future.
For a discussion of the groups Liability Act CERCLA can, in certain circumstances, impose the environmental expenditure, see page 291. entire cost of investigation and remediation on a party who owned A significant proportion of our fixed assets are located in the US and or operated a site contaminated with a hazardous substance, or who arranged for disposal of a hazardous substance at a site.
US and EU environmental, health and safety regulations significantly affect BPs operations.
Significant legislation and has incurred, or is likely to incur, liability under CERCLA or similar regulation in the US and the EU affecting our businesses and state laws, including costs attributed to insolvent or unidentified parties.
profitability includes the following: BP is also subject to claims for remediation costs under other United States federal and state laws, and to claims for natural resource damages Since taking office in January 2017, the Trump administration has under CERCLA, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 discussed issued a number of Executive Orders EO intended to reform the below and other federal and state laws.
CERCLA also requires federal permitting and rulemaking processes to reduce regulatory notification of releases of hazardous substances to national, state burdens placed on manufacturing generally and the energy industry and local government agencies, as applicable.
These EOs immediately rescind certain policies and Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act requires procedures and order the commencement of a broad process to reporting on the storage, use and releases of designated quantities identify other actions that may be taken to further reduce these of certain listed hazardous substances to federal, state and local regulatory requirements.
It is not clear how much or how quickly government agencies, as applicable.
these regulatory requirements will be reduced given statutory and rulemaking constraints and the likely legal challenges to some of The Toxic Substances Control Act TSCA regulates BPs these initiatives which can result in regulatory uncertainty and manufacture, import, export, sale and use of chemical substances compliance challenges for our operations.
In June 2016, the US enacted legislation to modernize and reform TSCA.
The EPA has promulgated rules, The National Environmental Policy Act NEPA requires that the processes and guidance to implement the reforms.
Key federal government gives proper consideration to the environment components of the reform legislation include: 1 a reset of the prior to undertaking any major federal action that significantly TSCA chemical inventory, 2 new chemical management affects the environment, which includes the issuance of federal prioritization efforts expanding risk assessment and risk permits.
The environmental reviews required by NEPA can delay management practices, 3 new confidentiality provisions, and projects.
State law analogues to NEPA could also limit or delay our 4 new authority for the EPA to impose a fee structure.
On 15 August 2017 the Trump administration issued EO EPA finalized details regarding the process and requirements for 13807 which directs federal agencies to take certain actions to execution of the TSCA inventory reset.
streamline the NEPA process although the effect of EO 13807 on our operations remains uncertain.
In 2018 the Trump Administration The Occupational Safety and Health Act imposes workplace safety started the rulemaking process to reform the NEPA regulations and health requirements on BP operations along with significant consistent with EO 13807. process safety management obligations, requiring continuous evaluation and improvement of operational practices to enhance 294 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary safety and reduce workplace emissions at gas processing, refining In October 2018 the European Council released an updated and other regulated facilities.
On 17 January 2017, the US proposal on setting CO reduction targets, from a 2021 baseline, of 2 Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA published 15% by 2025 and 35% by 2030 for passenger cars, and 15% by an instruction guidance document for implementing and 2025 and 30% by 2030 for passenger vans and heavy duty conducting a National Emphasis Program for process safety vehicles.
management PSM in covered facilities.
Over the next several The EU Registration, Evaluation Authorization and Restriction of years OSHA will pursue inspections through the National Emphasis Chemicals REACH Regulation 2006 requires registration of Program to ensure compliance with PSM requirements in both chemical substances manufactured in or imported into the EU, refineries and chemical plants.
together with the submission of relevant hazard and risk data.
The US Department of Transportation DOT regulates the transport REACH affects our manufacturing or trading import operations in of BPs petroleum products such as crude oil, gasoline, the EU.
Since coming into force in 2007, REACH implementation petrochemicals and other hydrocarbon liquids.
has followed a phase-in schedule defined by the EU, the final phase of which was completed 31 May 2018.
BP maintains The Maritime Transportation Security Act and the DOT Hazardous compliance by checking whether imports are covered by the Materials HAZMAT regulations impose security compliance registrations of non-EU suppliers representatives, preparing and regulations on certain BP facilities.
submitting registration dossiers to cover new manufactured and OPA 90 imposes operational requirements, liability standards and imported substances, and updating previously submitted other obligations governing the transportation of petroleum registrations as required.
Some substances registered previously, products in US waters and is implemented through regulations including substances supplied to us by third parties for our use, are issued by the EPA, the USCoast Guard, the DOT, the OSHA, the now subject to evaluation and review for potential authorization or Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement and various restriction procedures, and possible banning, by the European states.
Alaska and the West Coast states currently have the most Chemicals Agency and EU member state authorities.
In addition, demanding state requirements.
BPs facilities and operations in several EU countries have undergone REACH compliance inspections by the competent The Outer Continental Shelf Land Act, the MLA and other statutes authority for the respective EU member state.
An amendment to give the Department of Interior DOI and the BLM authority to the Annex of the Regulation on classification, labelling and regulate operations and air emissions, including equipment and packaging of substances and mixture CLP Regulation requires testing, on offshore and onshore operations on federal lands harmonized notification of information on hazardous materials subject to DOI authority.
certain lubricant and fuel formations to EU member state poison centres.
The uniform notification rules will apply as of January 2020 The Endangered Species Act and Marine Mammal Protection Act protect certain species from adverse human impacts.
The species for consumer products, from 2021 for professional and 2024 for industrial uses.
and their habitat may be protected thereby restricting operations or development at certain times and in certain places.
With an Outside the EU, Turkey has published REACH-like regulations, increasing number of species being protected, we have known as KKDIK, as well as related implementation schedules and experienced increasing restrictions on our activities.
BP is compiling and preparing the requisite information to meet the pre-registration requirements for European Union the KKDIK.
The Industrial Emissions Directive IED 2010 provides the framework for granting permits for major industrial sites.
It lays The EU Offshore Safety Directive was adopted in 2013.
Its purpose down rules on integrated prevention and control of air, water and is to introduce a harmonized regime aimed at reducing the soil pollution arising from industrial activities.
As part of the IED potential environmental, health and safety impacts of the offshore framework, additional emission limit values are informed by sector oil and gas industry throughout EU waters.
The Directive has been specific and cross-sector Best Available Technology BAT implemented in the UK primarily through the Offshore Installations Conclusions, such as the BAT Conclusions for the refining sector, Offshore Safety Directive Safety Case etc.
Regulations 2015. for large combustion plants as well as common waste water and The Water Framework Directive WFD published in 2000 aims to waste gas treatment and management systems in the chemical protect the quantity and quality of ground and surface waters of sector.
These may result in requirements for BP to further reduce the EU member states.
The ongoing implementation of the WFD its emissions, particularly its air and water emissions.
and the related Environmental Quality Standards Directive 2008 as The EU regulation on ozone depleting substances 2009 ODS well as the planned review of the WFD in 2019 is likely to require Regulation requires companies to reduce the use of ozone additional compliance efforts and increased costs for managing depleting substances ODSs and phase out use of certain ODSs.
freshwater withdrawals and discharges from BPs EU operations.
BP continues to replace ODSs in refrigerants and or equipment in The Best Available Techniques Guidance Document on upstream the EU and elsewhere, in accordance with the Montreal Protocol hydrocarbon exploration and production seeks to document best and related legislation.
The Kigali Amendment to the Montreal practice in the upstream sector.
The guidance defines Best Protocol which aims to reduce hydrofluorocarbons came into Available Techniques and best risk management approaches across force on 1 January 2019.
In addition, the EU regulation on the upstream lifecycle, from exploration and appraisal through to fluorinated GHGs with high global warming potential the F-gas decommissioning, and largely draws on experience and good Regulations require a phase-out of certain hydrofluorocarbons, practice from existing standards as well as existing regulatory based on global warming potential.
While the document is non-binding, European regulations also establish passenger car performance the European Commission are encouraging regulatory authorities standards for CO tailpipe emissions European Regulation EC 2 to utilize this guidance when issuing permits.
By 2021, the European passenger fleet emissions final stages of review and is expected to be published in 2019. target for new vehicles will be 95 grams of CO2 per kilometre.
This Regulations governing the discharge of treated water have also been target will be achieved by manufacturing fuel efficient vehicles and developed in countries outside of the US and EU.
This includes vehicles using alternative, low carbon fuels such as hydrogen and regulations in Trinidad and Angola.
In Trinidad, BP is upgrading its electricity.
In addition, vehicle emission test cycles and vehicle type water treatment facilities to meet consent levels agreed with the approval procedures are being updated to improve accuracy of regulators to apply water discharge rules arising from the Certificate emission and efficiency measurements.
European vehicle CO2 of Environmental Clearance CEC Regulations 2001 and associated emission regulations also impact the fuel efficiency of vans.
In Angola, BP has upgraded produced 2020, the EU fleet of newly registered vans must meet a target of water treatment systems to meet revised oil in water limits for 147 grams of CO per kilometre, which is 19% below the 2012 2 produced water discharge under Executive Decree ED 97-14. fleet average.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 295 See Glossary
