make the Scrip Programme offer available in respect of any particular Share prices and listings dividend.
Should the directors decide not to offer the Scrip Programme in respect of any particular dividend, cash will be paid Markets and market prices automatically instead.
The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial Exchange LSE trading symbol 'BP'.
BPs ordinary shares are a condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on page 55 and other constituent element of the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Our Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of the strategy on page 10 and in Liquidity and capital resources on page Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 277. for the largest companies in terms of market capitalization whose The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the primary listing is the LSE.
Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specific company per ADS for the past five years.
prices may be sent electronically to the exchange by any firm that is a member of the LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting a Dividends per ADS March June September December Total as a principal.
The orders are then anonymously displayed in the order 2013 UK pence 36.01 35.01 34.58 34.80 140.40 book.
When there is a match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is executed and automatically reported to the LSE.
Trading is continuous US cents 54 54 54 57 219 from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time but, in the event of a 20% 2014 UK pence 34.24 34.84 35.76 38.26 143.10 movement in the share price either way, the LSE may impose a US cents 57 58.5 58.5 60 234 temporary halt in the trading of that companys shares in the order 2015 UK pence 40.00 39.18 39.29 39.81 158.28 book to allow the market to re-establish equilibrium.
Dealings in US cents 60 60 60 60 240 ordinary shares may also take place between an investor and a 2016 UK pence 42.08 41.50 45.35 47.59 176.52 market maker, via a member firm, outside the electronic order book.
US cents 60 60 60 60 240 In the US, BPs securities are traded on the New York Stock Exchange 2017 UK pence 48.95 46.54 45.73 44.66 185.88 NYSE in the form of ADSs trading symbol 'BP', for which US cents 60 60 60 60 240 JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the depositary the Depositary and 2018 UK pence 43.01 44.66 47.58 48.15 183.40 transfer agent.
The Depositarys principal office is 383 Madison Avenue, Floor 11, New York, NY, 10179, US.
Each ADS represents six US cents 60 60 61.50 61.50 243 ordinary shares.
ADSs are listed on the NYSE.
ADSs are evidenced by a Dividends announced and paid by the company on ordinary and preference shares are American depositary receipts ADRs, which may be issued in either provided in Financial statements Note 10. certificated or book entry form.
There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on BP's securities are also traded in the form of a global depositary remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of certificate representing BP ordinary shares on the Frankfurt, Hamburg the companys operations, other than restrictions applicable to certain and Dusseldorf Stock Exchanges.
countries and persons subject to EU economic sanctions or those On 11March 2019, 922,206,611 ADSs equivalent to approximately sanctions adopted by the UK government which implement 5,533,239,666 ordinary shares or some 27.31% of the total issued resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations.
share capital, excluding shares held in treasury were outstanding and were held by approximately 81,329 ADS holders.
Of these, about Shareholder taxation information 80,393 had registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK registered holders of ADSs represents some 1,207,639 underlying taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holders.
holder who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax On 11March 2019 there were approximately 235,594 ordinary purposes.
It does not apply, however, inter alia to members of special shareholders.
Of these shareholders, around 1,540 had registered classes of holders some of which may be subject to other rules, addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,112,535 ordinary including: tax-exempt entities, life insurance companies, dealers in shares.
securities, traders in securities that elect a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities holdings, investors liable for alternative Since a number of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by minimum tax, holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of brokers and other nominees, the number of holders in the US may the companys voting stock, holders that hold the shares or ADSs as not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or their part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction, holders that respective country of residence.
purchase or sell the shares or ADSs as part of a wash sale for US federal income tax purposes, or holders whose functional currency is Dividends not the US dollar.
In addition, if a partnership holds the shares or BPs current policy is to pay interim dividends on a quarterly basis on ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner will generally its ordinary shares.
depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership and may not be described fully below.
Its policy is also to announce dividends for ordinary shares in US dollars and state an equivalent sterling dividend.
Dividends on BP A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is ordinary shares will be paid in sterling and on BP ADSs in US dollars.
for US federal income tax purposes 1 a citizen or resident of the US, The rate of exchange used to determine the sterling amount 2 a US domestic corporation, 3 an estate whose income is subject equivalent is the average of the market exchange rates in London to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or 4 a trust if over the four business days prior to the sterling equivalent a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts announcement date.
The directors may choose to declare dividends administration and one or more US persons are authorized to control in any currency provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is all substantial decisions of the trust.
not the companys intention to change its current policy of This section is based on the tax laws of the United States, including announcing dividends on ordinary shares in US dollars.
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative Information regarding dividends announced and paid by the company history, existing and proposed US Treasury regulations thereunder, on ordinary shares and preference shares is provided in Financial published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws of the statements Note 10.
UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention between the US and the UK that entered into force on 31March A Scrip Dividend Programme Scrip Programme was approved by 2003 the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a shareholders in 2010 and was renewed for a further three years at the retroactive basis.
This section further assumes that each obligation 2018 AGM.
It enables BP ordinary shareholders and ADS holders to under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP ADSs and elect to receive dividends by way of new fully paid BP ordinary shares any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its or ADSs in the case of ADS holders instead of cash.
the Scrip Programme is always subject to the directors decision to 306 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention the For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in Estate Tax Convention and for US federal income tax and UK income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the taxation purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives as the owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those the dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received ADRs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of shares generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK dividends received from other US corporations.
US ADS holders taxation other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US tax treatment described below.
of the dividend fee in respect of dividends.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the US and generally will be passive category Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US income or, in the case of certain US holders, general category federal, state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning income, each of which is treated separately for purposes of and disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular computing a US holders foreign tax credit limitation.
circumstances, and in particular whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty in respect of their investment in the shares or As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK ADSs.
Accordingly, the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
Taxation of dividends The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares that is paid in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the pounds UK taxation sterling payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, from dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US regardless of whether the payment is, in fact, converted into US holders.
Ashareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or trading in the UK through a permanent establishment dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the pounds sterling generally will not be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from dividend payment is includible in income to the date the payment is the company.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for tax converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss purposes in the UK is subject to UK tax but until 5April 2016, was and will not be eligible for the preferential tax rate on qualified entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend.
The gain or loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
From 6April 2016 the dividend tax credit was replaced by a new taxDistributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as free dividend allowance and dividends paid by the company on or determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a after 6April 2016 do not carry a UK tax credit.
The dividend allowance return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary was 5,000 but this has been reduced to 2,000 as of 6 April 2018. shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as The dividend allowance of 2,000 means there is no UK tax due on described in Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation the first 2,000 of dividends received.
Dividends above this level are section below.
subject to tax at 7.5% for basic tax payers, 32.5% for higher rate tax In addition, the taxation of dividends may be subject to the rules for payers and 38.1% for additional rate tax payers.
passive foreign investment companies PFIC, described below under Although the first 2,000 of dividend income is not subject to UK Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
Distributions income tax, it does not reduce the total income for tax purposes.
made by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and are Dividends within the dividend allowance still count towards basic or not eligible for the preferential tax rate applicable to such income.
higher rate bands, and may therefore affect the rate of tax paid on dividends received in excess of the 2,000 allowance.
For instance, if Taxation of capital gains an individual has an annual gross salary of 50,000 and also receives a dividend of 12,000 they will be subject to the following scenario.
UK taxation The individual's personal allowance and the basic rate tax band will be A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain used up by the gross salary.
The remaining part of the salary and the on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is whole of the dividend will be subject to tax at the higher rate, 1 resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom at the date of although the dividend allowance will reduce the amount of dividend disposal, 2 if he or she has left the UK for a period not exceeding subject to tax.
The dividend of 12,000 will be reduced by the five complete tax years between the year of departure from and the dividend allowance of 2,000 leaving taxable dividend income of year of return to the UK and acquired the shares before leaving the 10,000.
The dividend will be taxed at 32.5% so that the total tax UK and was resident in the UK in the previous four out of seven tax payable on the dividends is 3,250. years before the year of departure, 3 a US domestic corporation resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed or How the shareholder pays the tax arising on the dividend income controlled in the UK or 4 a citizen of the US that carries on a trade or depends on the amount of dividend income and salary they receive in profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or a the tax year.
If less than 2,000 they will not need to report anything corporation that carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK, or pay any tax.
If between 2,000 and 10,000, the shareholder can through a permanent establishment, and that has used, held, or pay what they owe by: contacting the helpline: asking HMRC to acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the purposes of such trade, change their tax code the tax will be taken from their wages or profession or vocation of such branch, agency or permanent pension or through completion of the Dividends section of their tax establishment.
However, such persons may be entitled to a tax credit return, where one is being filed.
If over 10,000 they will be required against their US federal income tax liability for the amount of UK to file a self-assessment tax return and should complete the capital gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the Dividends section with details of the amounts received.
case may be that is paid in respect of such gain.
US federal income taxation Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross ADSs generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of amount of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or residence of the relevant holder as determined under both the laws accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal of the UK and the US and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or the that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder US and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or at a preferential rate, provided that the holder has a holding period in the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years the ordinary shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day immediately preceding the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and meets other ADSs may be subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by the company with a disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs of the company not only in respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be qualified the jurisdiction of which the holder is resident at the time of the dividend income.
disposition but also in the other jurisdiction.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 307 See Glossary For gains on or after 23 June 2010, the UK Capital Gains Tax rate will agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs give rise to a liability be dependent on the level of an individuals taxable income.
Where to stamp duty reserve tax.
total taxable income and gains after all allowable deductions are less Purchases of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, through the than the upper limit of the basic rate income tax band of 34,500 for CREST system of paperless share transfers will be subject to stamp 2018 19, the rate of Capital Gains Tax will be 10%.
For gains and any duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
The charge will arise as soon as there is an parts of gains above that limit the rate will be 20%.
agreement for the transfer of the shares or, in the case of a From 6 April 2008, entitlement to the annual exemption is based on conditional agreement, when the condition is fulfilled.
The stamp an individuals circumstances taking into account Domicile status, duty reserve tax will apply to agreements to transfer ordinary shares remittance basis of taxation and number of years in the UK.
For even if the agreement is made outside the UK between two nonindividuals who are entitled to the exemption for 2018 19, this has residents.
Purchases of ordinary shares outside the CREST system been set at 11,700.
Corporation tax on chargeable gains is levied at are subject either to stamp duty at a rate of 5per 1,000 or part, 19 per cent for companies from 1 April 2017. unless the stamp duty is less than 5, when no stamp duty is charged, or stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
Stamp duty and stamp US federal income taxation duty reserve tax are generally the liability of the purchaser.
A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or A subsequent transfer of ordinary shares to the Depositarys nominee ADSs will recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax will give rise to further stamp duty at the rate of 1.50per 100 or purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the part or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 1.5% of the value of the amount realized on the disposition and the US holders tax basis, ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
For ADR holders electing determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Any such to receive ADSs instead of cash, after the 2012 first quarter dividend capital gain or loss generally will be long-term gain or loss, subject to payment, HM Revenue& Customs no longer seeks to impose 1.5% tax at a preferential rate for a non-corporate US holder, if the US stamp duty reserve tax on issues of UK shares and securities to nonholders holding period for such ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one EU clearance services and depositary receipt systems.
Gain or loss from the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or US Medicare Tax ADSs will generally be income or loss from sources within the US for A US holder that is an individual or estate, or a trust that does not fall foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital into a special class of trusts that is exempt from such tax, is subject losses is subject to limitations.
to a 3.8% tax on the lesser of 1 the US holders net investment income or undistributed net investment income in the case of an We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as estate or trust for the relevant taxable year and 2 the excess of the stock of a passive foreign investment company PFIC for US federal US holders modified adjusted gross income for the taxable year over income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination a certain threshold which in the case of individuals is between that is made annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated $125,000 and $250,000, depending on the individuals as a PFIC, unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a markcircumstances.
A holders net investment income generally includes to-market basis with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, any gain its dividend income and its net gains from the disposition of shares or realized on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs ADSs, unless such dividend income or net gains are derived in the would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, a US holder ordinary course of the conduct of a trade or business other than a would be treated as if he or she had realized such gain rateably over trade or business that consists of certain passive or trading activities.
the holding period for ordinary shares or ADSs and would be taxed at If you are a US holder that is an individual, estate or trust, you are the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was urged to consult your tax advisers regarding the applicability of the allocated, in addition to which an interest charge in respect of the tax Medicare tax to your income and gains in respect of your investment attributable to each such year would apply.
Certain excess in the shares or ADSs.
distributions would be similarly treated if we were treated as a PFIC.
Additional tax considerations Major shareholders The disclosure of certain major and significant shareholdings in the Scrip Programme share capital of the company is governed by the Companies Act 2006, The company has an optional Scrip Programme, wherein holders of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and BP ordinary shares or ADSs may elect to receive any dividends in the Transparency Rules DTR and the US Securities Exchange Act of form of new fully paid ordinary shares or ADSs of the company 1934. instead of cash.
Please consult your tax adviser for the consequences to you.
Register of members holding BP ordinary shares as at 31December 2018 UK inheritance tax The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an Percentage of total individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Percentage of ordinary share Number of total capital Convention in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax ordinary ordinary excluding shares Convention a national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance Range of holdings shareholders shareholders held in treasury tax on the individuals death or on transfer during the individuals 1-200 53,495 22.63 0.01 lifetime unless, among other things, the ADSs are part of the 201-1,000 79,856 33.77 0.22 business property of a permanent establishment situated in the UK 1,001-10,000 90,654 38.34 1.41 used for the performance of independent personal services.
In the 10,001-100,000 10,801 4.57 1.11 exceptional case where ADSs are subject to both inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally 100,001-1,000,000 948 0.40 1.77 a provides for tax payable in the US to be credited against tax payable Over 1,000,000 689 0.29 95.48 in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be credited against tax payable Totals 236,443 100.00 100.00 in the US, based on priority rules set forth in the Estate Tax a Includes JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. holding 27.32% of the total ordinary issued share Convention.
capital excluding shares held in treasury as the approved depositary for ADSs, a breakdown of which is shown in the table below.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax The statements below relate to what is understood to be the current practice of HM Revenue& Customs in the UK under existing law.
Provided that any instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and remains at all times outside the UK and the transfer does not relate to any matter or thing done or to be done in the UK, no UK stamp duty is payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs.
Neither will an 308 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary
