Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 The financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31December2018 were approved and signed by the group chief executive on 29March2019 having been duly authorized to do so by the board of directors.
The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements FRS 100 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Accordingly, these financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
As permitted by FRS 101, the company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available in relation to: a the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: b the requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: c the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: d the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors in relation to standards not yet effective: e the requirements of paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: and f the requirements of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member.
g the requirement of the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113 a, 114,115, 118, 119 a to c, 120 to 127 and 129 of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements of BP p. l. c. As permitted by Section408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement of the company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except where otherwise indicated.
Significant accounting policies: use of judgements, estimates and assumptions Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements is the need for management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses.
Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
The accounting judgements and estimates that have a significant impact on the results of the company are set out in boxed text below, and should be read in conjunction with the information provided in the Notes on financial statements.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost.
The company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the company makes an estimate of its recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an investment exceeds its recoverable amount, the investment is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Where these circumstances have reversed, the impairment previously made is reversed to the extent of the original cost of the investment.
Foreign currency translation The functional and presentation currency of the financial statements is US dollars.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the functional currency at the spot exchange rate on the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than those measured at fair value, are not retranslated subsequent to initial recognition.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by a non-US dollar functional currency branch are translated into US dollars are recognized in a separate component of equity and reported in other comprehensive income.
Income statement transactions are translated into US dollars using the average exchange rate for the reporting period.
Financial guarantees The company enters into financial guarantee contracts with its subsidiaries.
At the inception of a financial guarantee contract, a liability is recognized initially at fair value and then subsequently at the higher of the estimated loss and amortized cost.
Where a guarantee is issued for a premium, a receivable of an amount equal to the liability is initially recognized.
Subsequently, the liability and receivable reduce by the amount of consideration received, which is recognized in the income statement.
Where a guarantee is issued without a premium, the fair value is recognized as additional investment in the entity to which the guarantee relates.
The parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. on pages 238-271 do not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with theSEC.
240 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
