Goodwill and impairment review of goodwill $ million 2018 2017 Cost At 1January 12,163 11,805 Exchange adjustments 210 336 a Acquisitions and other additions 1,046 83 Deletions 184 61 At 31December 12,815 12,163 Impairment losses At 1January 612 611 Exchange adjustments 1 Deletions 1 At 31December 611 612 Net book amount at 31December 12,204 11,551 Net book amount at 1January 11,551 11,194 a 2018 principally relates to the purchase of an additional 16.5% share in the Clair field in the North Sea.
See Note 3 - Other significant transactions for further information.
Impairment review of goodwill $ million Goodwill at 31 December 2018 2017 Upstream 8,346 7,728 Downstream 3,802 3,758 Other businesses and corporate 56 65 12,204 11,551 Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
For Upstream, goodwill is allocated to all oil and gas assets in aggregate at the segment level.
For Downstream, goodwill has been allocated to Lubricants and Other.
For information on significant estimates and judgements made in relation to impairments see Impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill in Note 1.
Upstream $ million 2018 2017 Goodwill 8,346 7,728 Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount 53,391 27,705 The table above shows the carrying amount of goodwill for the segment and the excess of the recoverable amount, based upon a post-tax value-in-use calculation, over the carrying amount headroom at the date of the test.
The increase in headroom principally arises from acquisitions, new activity and changes in US tax.
In the prior year, the recoverable amount was estimated using a fair value less costs of disposal calculation and was based on cash flows estimated for the impairment test performed in 2016 as permitted by IAS 36.
The value in use is based on the cash flows expected to be generated by the projected oil or natural gas production profiles up to the expected dates of cessation of production of each producing field, based on current estimates of reserves and resources, appropriately risked.
Midstream and supply and trading activities and equity-accounted entities are generally not included in the impairment review of goodwill, because they are not part of the grouping of cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates and which is used to monitor the goodwill for internal management purposes.
Where such activities form part of a wider Upstream cash-generating unit, they are reflected in the test.
As the production profile and related cash flows can be estimated from BPs past experience, management believes that the cash flows generated over the estimated life of field is the appropriate basis upon which to assess goodwill and individual assets for impairment.
The estimated date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, the production profile of the hydrocarbons, the cost of the development of the infrastructure necessary to recover the hydrocarbons, production costs, the contractual duration of the production concession and the selling price of the hydrocarbons produced.
As each producing field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the cash flows of the fields are computed using appropriate individual economic models and key assumptions agreed by BP management.
Capital expenditure, operating costs and expected hydrocarbon production profiles are derived from the business segment plan adjusted for assumptions reflecting the price environment at the time that the test was performed.
Estimated production volumes and cash flows up to the date of cessation of production on a field-by-field basis are consistent with this.
The production profiles used are consistent with the reserve and resource volumes approved as part of BPs centrally controlled process for the estimation of proved and probable reserves and total resources.
The most recent review for impairment was carried out in the fourth quarter.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation are oil and natural gas prices, production volumes and the discount rate.
Oil and gas price assumptions for the first five years are based on managements best estimate of prices over those five years, with the long-term price applied from year 6 onwards.
Price assumptions and discount rate assumptions used were as disclosed in Note 1.
The value-in-use calculation has been prepared solely for the purposes of determining whether the goodwill balance was impaired.
Estimated future cash flows were prepared on the basis of certain assumptions prevailing at the time of the test.
The actual outcomes may differ from the assumptions made.
For example, reserves and resources estimates and production forecasts are subject to revision as further technical information becomes available and economic conditions change, and future commodity prices may differ from the forecasts used in the calculations.
Sensitivities to different variables have been estimated using certain simplifying assumptions.
For example, lower oil and gas price sensitivities do not reflect the specific impacts for each contractual arrangement and will not capture fully any favourable impacts that may arise from cost deflation.
Therefore a detailed calculation at any given price or production profile may produce a different result.
166 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
