Goodwill and impairment review of goodwill continued It is estimated that if the oil price assumption for all future years was approximately $14 per barrel lower in each year, this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related net non-current assets of the segment.
It is estimated that no reasonable fall in the gas price assumption would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related net non-current assets of the segment.
Estimated production volumes are based on detailed data for each field and take into account development plans agreed by management as part of the long-term planning process.
The average production for the purposes of goodwill impairment testing over the next 15 years is 829mmboeper year 2017 889mmboe per year.
It is estimated that if production volumes were to be reduced by approximately 13% for this period, this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related net non-current assets of the segment.
It is estimated that if the post-tax discount rate was approximately 11% for the entire portfolio, an increase of 5% for all countries not considered higher risk and 3% for countries considered 'higher risk', this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related net non-current assets of the segment.
Downstream $ million 2018 2017 Lubricants Other Total Lubricants Other Total Goodwill 2,692 1,110 3,802 2,849 909 3,758 Cash flows for each cash-generating unit are derived from the business segment plans, which cover a period of up to five years.
To determine the value in use for each of the cash-generating units, cash flows for a period of 10 years are discounted and aggregated with a terminal value.
Lubricants As permitted by IAS 36, the detailed calculations of Lubricants recoverable amount performed in the most recent detailed calculation in 2013 were used as the basis for the tests in 2014-2017 as the criteria of IAS 36 were considered satisfied: the headroom was substantial in 2013: there have been no significant changes in the assets and liabilities: and the likelihood that the recoverable amount would be less than the carrying amount is remote.
IAS 36 does not specify for how many years such an approach is appropriate and management determined that a re-performance of the test was appropriate in 2018 given the passage of time since 2013.
There was no significant change in the outcome of this test compared to that in 2013.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Lubricants unit is most sensitive are operating unit margins, sales volumes, and discount rate.
Operating margin and sales volumes assumptions used in the detailed impairment review of goodwill calculation are consistent with the assumptions used in the Lubricants units business plan and values assigned to these key assumptions reflect past experience.
No reasonably possible change in any of these key assumptions would cause the units carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Cash flows beyond the plan period are extrapolated using a nominal 2.8% growth rate 2013 3%.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 167
