In accordance with BPs Articles of Association, on appointment each effective.
The federal government and the Gulf states may jointly director is granted an indemnity from the company in respect of elect to accelerate the payments under the Consent Decree in the liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by event of a change of control or insolvency of BP p. l. c. and the Gulf law.
These indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and states individually have similar acceleration rights under the at the date of this report.
In respect of those liabilities for which Settlement Agreement.
For further details of the Consent Decree and directors may not be indemnified, the company maintained a the Settlement Agreement, see Legal proceedings in BP Annual directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout 2018.
During the year, a review of the terms and scope of the policy was Greenhouse gas emissions undertaken.
The policy was renewed during 2018 and continued into 2019.
Although their defence costs may be met, neither the The disclosures in relation to greenhouse gas emissions are included companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event that in Sustainability Climate change on page 45. the director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Certain subsidiaries are trustees of the groups pension schemes.
Disclosures required under Listing Each director of these subsidiariesis granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of such a Rule9.8.
4R subsidiarys activities as a trustee of the pension scheme, to the The information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can extent permitted by law.
These indemnities were in force throughout be located as set out below: the financial year and at the date of this report.
Information required Page Financial risk management objectives and policies 1 Amount of interest capitalized 159 The disclosures in relation to financial risk management objectives 2 11 Notapplicable and policies, including the policy for hedging, are included in How we 12, 13 Dividend waivers 302 manage risk on page 53, Liquidity and capital resources on page 277 14 Notapplicable and Financial statements Notes 29 and 30.
Exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk The disclosures in relation to exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included in Financial statements Note 29.
Important events since the end of the financial year Disclosures of the particulars of the important events affecting BP which have occurred since the end of the financial year are included in the Strategic report as well as in other places in the Directors report.
Likely future developments in the business An indication of the likely future developments in the business of the company is included in the Strategic report.
Research and development An indication of the activities of the company in the field of research and development is included in Innovation in BP on page 40.
Branches As a global group our interests and activities are held or operated through subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or associates established in and subject to the laws and regulations of many different jurisdictions.
Employees The disclosures concerning policies in relation to the employment of disabled persons and employee involvement are included in Sustainability Our people on page 51.
Employee share schemes Certain shares held as a result of participation in some employee share plans carry voting rights.
Voting rights in respect of such shares are exercisable via a nominee.
Dividend waivers are in place in respect of unallocated shares held in employee share plan trusts.
Change of control provisions On 5October 2015, the United States lodged with the district court in MDL 2179 a proposed Consent Decree between the United States, the Gulf states, BP Exploration& Production Inc. BP Corporation North America Inc. and BP p. l. c. to fully and finally resolve any and all natural resource damages claims of the United States, the Gulf states and their respective natural resource trustees and all Clean Water Act penalty claims, and certain other claims of the United States and the Gulf states.
Concurrently, BP entered into a definitive Settlement Agreement with the five Gulf states Settlement Agreement with respect to state claims for economic, property and other losses.
On 4April 2016, the district court approved the Consent Decree, at which time the Consent Decree and Settlement Agreement became 302 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary
