Contingent liabilities continued The group is subject to numerous national and local health, safety and environmental laws and regulations concerning its products, operations and other activities.
These laws and regulations may require the group to take future action to remediate the effects on the environment of prior disposal or release of chemicals or petroleum substances by the group or other parties.
Such contingencies may exist for various sites including refineries, chemical plants, oil fields, commodities extraction sites, service stations, terminals and waste disposal sites.
In addition, the group may have obligations relating to prior asset sales or closed facilities.
The ultimate requirement for remediation and its cost are inherently difficult to estimate.
However, the estimated cost of known environmental obligations has been provided in these accounts in accordance with the groups accounting policies.
While the amounts of future costs that are not provided for could be significant and could be material to the groups results of operations in the period in which they are recognized, it is not possible to estimate the amounts involved.
BP does not expect these costs to have a material impact on the groups results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
If oil and natural gas production facilities and pipelines are sold to third parties and the subsequent owner is unable to meet their decommissioning obligations it is possible that, in certain circumstances, BP could be partially or wholly responsible for decommissioning.
While the amounts associated with decommissioning provisions reverting to the group could be significant and could be material, BP is not currently aware of any such cases that have a greater than remote chance of reverting to the group.
Furthermore, as described in Provisions and contingencies within Note 1, decommissioning provisions associated with downstream and petrochemical facilities are not generally recognized as the potential obligations cannot be measured given their indeterminate settlement dates.
See also Legal proceedings on pages 296-298.
Remuneration of senior management and non-executive directors Remuneration of directors $million 2018 2017 2016 Total for all directors Emoluments 8 9 10 a Amounts received under incentive schemes 16 9 14 Total 24 18 24 a Excludes amounts relating to past directors.
Emoluments These amounts comprise fees paid to the non-executive chairman and the non-executive directors and, for executive directors, salary and benefits earned during the relevant financial year, plus cash bonuses awarded for the year.
Pension contributions During 2018 one executive director participated in a UK final salary pension plan in respect of service prior to 1 April 2011.
During 2018, one executive director participated in retirement savings plans established for US employees and in a US defined benefit pension plan in respect of service prior to 1 September 2016.
Further information Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the Directors remuneration report on page 87.
See also Related-party transactions on page 300.
Remuneration of directors and senior management $million 2018 2017 2016 Total for all senior management and non-executive directors Short-term employee benefits 25 29 28 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 2 2 3 Share-based payments 32 29 39 Total 59 60 70 Senior management comprises members of the executive team, see pages 63-65 for further information.
Short-term employee benefits These amounts comprise fees and benefits paid to the non-executive chairman and non-executive directors, as well as salary, benefits and cash bonuses for senior management.
Deferred annual bonus awards, to be settled in shares, are included in share-based payments.
Short term employee benefits includes compensation for loss of office of $nil in 2018 2017 $nil and 2016 $2.2 million.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The amounts represent the estimated cost to the group of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits to senior management in respect of the current year of service measured in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Share-based payments This is the cost to the group of senior managements participation in share-based payment plans, as measured by the fair value of options and shares granted, accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
198 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
