Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Independent auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: The financial statements of BP p. l. c. the parent company and its subsidiaries the group give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31December2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended.
The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework'.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of BP p. l. c. which comprise: Group income statement: Group statement of comprehensive income: Group and parent company statements of changes in equity: Group and parent company balance sheets: Group cash flow statement: Group related Notes 1 to 38 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant policies: and Parent company related Notes 1 to 14 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
The financial framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards including FRS 101 United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Impairment of Upstream oil and gas property, plant and equipment PP&E assets: Accounting for acquisitions and disposals within the Upstream segment: Impairment of exploration and appraisal assets: Accounting for structured commodity transactions within the integrated supply and trading function, and the valuation of other level 3 financial instruments, where fraud risks may arise in revenue recognition: User access management controls relating to financial systems: and Management override of controls.
Two key audit matters were identified by the previous auditor and described in their report for the year ended 31 December 2017 and are not included in our report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
These were: The determination of the liabilities, contingent liabilities and disclosures arising from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill - the provisions have substantially decreased from a quantitative perspective and the level of judgement in determining BPs liabilities has reduced significantly as legal settlements have been reached: and US Tax reform - the reform was signed into law in 2017 and gave rise to a one-off taxation charge.
Whilst the impact of the reform has continued to be assessed in 2018, the judgement required and quantitative impact in the current year is considerably lower.
The previous auditor also included a key audit matter in respect of unauthorized trading activity in the integrated supply and trading function.
This is covered by the key audit matter set out above covering the accounting for structured commodity transactions and valuation of certain level 3 financial instruments.
They also identified a key audit matter in respect of the estimation of oil and gas reserves and resources, which we have considered in the context of impairment of Upstream oil and gas PP&E assets.
Materiality We have set materiality for the current year at $750 million based on profit before tax and underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax.
This page does not form part of BP's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
114 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
