action in October 2018 and filed an opposition to class certification substantial.
While it is not possible to predict the outcome of and requested dismissal on 28 December 2018. these legal actions, Atlantic Richfield believes that it has valid defences.
It intends to defend such actions vigorously and Other legal proceedings believes that the incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, BP believes that the impact of these lawsuits on the groups FERC and CFTC matters results, financial position or liquidity will not be material.
Following an investigation by the US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC and the US Commodity Futures Trading Scharfstein v. BP West Coast Products, LLC Commission CFTC of several BP entities, the Administrative A class action lawsuit was filed against BP West Coast Products, LLC Law Judge of the FERC ruled on 13 August 2015 that BP BPWCP in Oregon State Court under the Oregon Unlawful Trade manipulated the market by selling next-day, fixed price natural Practices Act on behalf of customers who used a debit card at ARCO gas at Houston Ship Channel in 2008 in order to suppress the gasoline stations in Oregon during the period 1 January 2011 to 30 Gas Daily index and benefit its financial position.
On 11 July 2016 August 2013, alleging that ARCO sites in Oregon failed to provide the FERC issued an Order affirming the initial decision and sufficient notice of the 35 cents per transaction debit card fee.
In directing BP to pay a civil penalty of $20.16 million and to January 2014, the jury rendered a verdict against BPWCP and disgorge $207,169 in unjust profits.
On 10 August 2016, BP filed a awarded statutory damages of $200 per class member.
On 25 August request for rehearing with the FERC.
BP strongly disagrees with 2015, the trial court determined the size of the class to be slightly in the FERCs decision and will ultimately appeal to the US Court of excess of two million members.
On 31 May 2016 the trial court Appeals if necessary.
entered a judgment against BPWCP for the amount of $417.3 million.
On 31 May 2018 the Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the trial OSHA matters courts ruling.
BP filed a Petition for Review to the Oregon Supreme On 8 March 2010, the US Occupational Safety and Health Court which was denied on 8 November 2018.
In March 2019, BP and Administration OSHA issued 65 citations to BP Products North the Plaintiffs agreed to a settlement of the class action lawsuit, America Inc. BP Products and BP-Husky Refining LLC BPsubject to final court approval.
BP intends to file a petition for a writ of Husky for alleged violations of the Process Safety Management certiorari to the US Supreme Court in order to preserve BPs appeal PSM standard at the Toledo refinery, with penalties of rights pending final court approval of the settlement.
These citations resulted from an for litigation and claims includes a provision for this lawsuit.
inspection conducted pursuant to OSHAs Petroleum Refinery Process Safety Management National Emphasis Program.
Both International trade sanctions BP Products and BP-Husky contested the citations.
The outcome of a pre-trial settlement of a number of the citations and a trial of During the period covered by this report, non-US subsidiaries, or the remainder was a reduction in the total penalty in respect of other non-US entities of BP, conducted limited activities in, or with the citations from the original amount of approximately $3 million persons from, certain countries identified by the US Department of to $80,000.
The OSH Review Commission granted OSHAs State as State Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US and petition for review and briefing was completed in the first half of EU sanctions Sanctioned Countries.
On 27 September 2018, the OSH Review Commission to be insignificant to the groups financial condition and results of issued its decision, which reduced the citations to two operations.
BP monitors its activities with Sanctioned Countries, remaining, and reduced the penalty to $7,000.
OSHA has decided persons from Sanctioned Countries and individuals and companies not to appeal this decision.
subject to US and EU sanctions and seeks to comply with applicable sanctions laws and regulations.
Prudhoe Bay leak In March and August 2006, oil leaked from oil transit pipelines In May 2018, the US government announced its planned withdrawal operated by BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA at the Prudhoe from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action JCPOA under which Bay unit on the North Slope of Alaska.
On 12 May 2008, a BP the US and the EU had implemented temporary, limited and p. l. c. shareholder filed a consolidated complaint alleging reversible relief of certain sanctions related to Iran.
The US violations of federal securities law on behalf of a putative class of government tasked OFAC with implementing the full re-imposition of BP p. l. c. shareholders, based on alleged misrepresentations both primary and secondary sanctions in respect of Iran by the end of concerning the integrity of the Prudhoe Bay pipeline before its a wind-down period.
As a result of the JCPOA, BP had considered shutdown on 6 August 2006.
On 7 December 2015, the and developed possible business opportunities in relation to Iran, complaint was dismissed with prejudice.
On 5 January 2016, engaged in discussions with Iranian government officials and other plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of that decision to the Ninth Iranian nationals and attended conferences.
BP will continue to Circuit Court of Appeals.
On July 31, 2018 the Ninth Circuit monitor and assess business opportunities in Iran which are granted the parties motion to dismiss the appeal voluntarily compliant with EU and US laws applicable to BP including potentially ending the litigation.
attending meetings in connection with this purpose.
On 30 November 2018, BP completed the sale of certain of its assets Lead paint matters in the North Sea, including its ownership stake, and the transfer of its Since 1987, Atlantic Richfield Company Atlantic Richfield, a role as operator, in the North Sea Rhum field Rhum joint subsidiary of BP, has been named as a co-defendant in numerous arrangement to Serica Energy plc Serica.
Prior to that date, Rhum lawsuits brought in the US alleging injury to persons and property was owned under a 50:50 unincorporated joint arrangement between caused by lead pigment in paint.
The majority of the lawsuits BP and Iranian Oil Company U. K. Limited IOC.
have been abandoned or dismissed against Atlantic Richfield.
Atlantic Richfield is named in these lawsuits as alleged BP has a 28.8% interest in and operates the Azerbaijan Shah Deniz successor to International Smelting and Refining and another field Shah Deniz and a related gas pipeline entity, South Caucasus company that manufactured lead pigment during the period Pipeline Company Limited SCPC, and has a 23% non-operated 1920-1946.
The plaintiffs include individuals and governmental interest in a related gas marketing entity, Azerbaijan Gas Supply entities.
Several of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
Naftiran Intertrade Co. Limited and NICO lawsuits seek various remedies including compensation to leadSPV Limited collectively, NICO have a 10% non-operating interest in poisoned children, cost to find and remove lead paint from each of Shah Deniz and SCPC and an 8% non-operating interest in buildings, medical monitoring and screening programmes, public AGSC.
Shah Deniz, SCPC and AGSC continue in operation as they warning and education of lead hazards, reimbursement of were excluded from the main operative provisions of the EU government healthcare costs and special education for leadregulations as well as from the application of the US sanctions, and poisoned citizens and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against fall within the exception for certain natural gas projects under Atlantic Richfield has been settled nor has Atlantic Richfield been Section603 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act subject to a final adverse judgment in any proceeding.
amounts claimed and, if such suits were successful, the costs of On 3 December 2018 BP entered into an agreement with, among implementing the remedies sought in the various cases could be others, SOCAR and NICO pursuant to which SOCAR shall pay to BP 298 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 See Glossary Exploration Shah Deniz Limited BPXSD, as the Shah Deniz Operator, delivery at BPs Rotterdam refinery, the Forties blend crude oil was an amount in respect of compensation for NICOs waiver of its right comingled with other products for refining, and therefore BP is to lift its share of Shah Deniz condensate.
Such amounts shall be unable to ascertain an amount of gross revenue or gross profit used to cover cash calls to NICO in respect of operating costs due attributable to it.
On 30 November 2018, OFAC issued a new During 2018, BPEOC received 223,693 $298,456 equivalent net licence in relation to these arrangements.
of tariffs from BPEOC Forties Pipeline System in respect of BP holds an interest in a non-BP operated Indian joint venture that monies owed to IOC in relation to the purchase of IOCs share of sold produced crude oil to an Indian entity in which NICO holds a Onshore Raw Gas at the Kinneil terminal of the Forties Pipeline minority, non-controlling stake.
BP and IOC agreed to set off the 223,693 $298,456 equivalent against IOCs share of operating costs incurred or to be Both the US and the EU have enacted strong sanctions against Syria, incurred by BPEOC as operator of the Rhum field under the Rhum including a prohibition on the purchase of Syrian-origin crude and a US joint operating agreement.
prohibition on the provision of services to Syria by US persons.
The EU sanctions against Syria include a prohibition on supplying certain During 2018, BPEOC received 2.79 million $3.73 million equipment used in the production, refining or liquefaction of equivalent net of tariffs from a non-US third party in respect of petroleum resources, as well as restrictions on dealing with the the sale to such non-US third party of certain NGLs redelivered Central Bank of Syria and numerous other Syrian financial institutions.
from the St Fergus terminal.
These NGLs had been acquired by BPEOC from IOC at the St. Fergus terminal.
BP and IOC agreed to Following the imposition in 2011 of further US and EU sanctions set off the 2.79 million $3.73 million equivalent against IOCs against Syria, BP terminated all sales of crude oil and petroleum share of operating costs incurred by BPEOC as operator of the products into Syria, though BP continues to supply aviation fuel to Rhum field under the Rhum joint operating agreement.
non-governmental Syrian resellers outside of Syria.
As noted above, on 30 November 2018, BP completed the sale of BP sells lubricants in Cuba through a 50:50 joint arrangement and trades in small quantities of lubricants.
its ownership stake in the Rhum joint arrangement and transferred its role as operator to Serica.
Prior to the sale, on 5 October 2018, During 2014 the US and the EU imposed sanctions on certain Russian Serica and BP received a conditional licence from OFAC relating to activities, individuals and entities, including Rosneft.
Certain sectoral the ongoing operation of the Rhum field.
The licence was valid until sanctions also apply to entities in which entities on the relevant 31 October 2019 and was conditional upon arrangements being put sectoral sanctions list own a certain percentage interest, being either in place before 5 November 2018 relating to the interests in Rhum 33% or 50% depending on certain criteria.
In August 2017, Russia held by IOC.
An updated licence from OFAC on substantially the related sanctions were passed in the US which target among other same terms and a letter of comfort permitting all non-US persons things: i Russian energy export pipelines: ii privatisation of state to support Rhum activities in compliance with US secondary owned assets in Russia: and iii certain international offshore Arctic, sanctions were issued on 2 November 2018.
On the same date the deepwater and or shale exploration and production oil projects.
We conditions in such OFAC licence in respect of the interest in Rhum are not aware of any material adverse effect on our current income held by IOC were met in full.
These conditions were satisfied and investment in Russia or elsewhere as a consequence of those through arrangements which provide that all benefits accruing from sanctions.
and relating to IOCs interest in Rhum will be held in escrow, by a BP maintains bank accounts and has registered and paid required trust and management company Rhum Management Company fees to maintain registrations of patents and trademarks in certain set up for this purpose, for such period as US sanctions apply.
arrangements are designed to ensure that neither IOC nor any direct or indirect parent company of IOC including any member of BP has equity interests in non-operated joint arrangements with air the Government of Iran will derive any economic benefit from fuel sellers, resellers, and fuel delivery services around the world.
Rhum, or exercise any decision-making powers in respect of From time to time, the joint arrangement operator or other partners Rhum, during that period.
From satisfaction of the OFAC licence may sell or deliver fuel to airlines from Sanctioned Countries or flights conditions on 2 November 2018, BP dealt with the Rhum to Sanctioned Countries, without BP's involvement.
Management Company in respect of Rhum joint venture matters.
BP has no control over the activities non-controlled associates may In December 2018, BP made a cash transfer of 2.69 million $3.59 undertake in Sanctioned Countries or with persons from Sanctioned million equivalent to Rhum Management Company.
represented the net amount of IOC funds in the Rhum joint Disclosure pursuant to Section219 of ITRA venture account which had not, to that date, been set off against IOCs share of operating costs incurred by BPEOC as operator of To our knowledge, none of BPs activities, transactions or dealings are the Rhum field under the Rhum joint operating agreement.
required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRA Section219, with the following possible exceptions: BP does not expect to enter into any further similar arrangements with IOC or any member of the Government of Iran in relation to Prior to 30 November 2018, Rhum, located in the UK sector of the the Rhum field.
BP will continue to purchase from Sericas liftings North Sea, was operated by BP Exploration Operating Company from Rhum or provide services to Serica as the operator of Rhum.
Limited BPEOC, a non-US subsidiary of BP, and Rhum was owned under a 50:50 unincorporated joint arrangement between BPEOC On 17 July 2018 BP Iran Limited terminated its lease of an office in and Iranian Oil Company U. K. Limited IOC which was initially Tehran.
The office had been used for administrative activities.
During 2018, BP recorded gross revenues of 2018, taxes, including rental tax payments associated with the $177.3 million related to its interests in Rhum.
BP had a net profit Tehran office, with an aggregate US dollar equivalent value of of $87.7 million for the year ended 31 December 2018. approximately $11,000, were paid from a BP trust account held with Tadvin Co. to Iranian public entities.
No gross revenues or net BP has sought to carry out its role as operator of the Rhum joint profits were attributable to these activities.
arrangement in compliance with US sanctions and has obtained a series of specific OFAC licences relating to the ongoing operation During 2018, certain BP employees visited Iran for the purpose of of the Rhum field.
meetings with Iranian government officials and other Iranian nationals and attending conferences.
Payments were made to In November 2017, BPEOC entered into an agreement with IOC for Iranian public entities for visas and taxes in relation to such visits the sale and purchase of an IOC entitlement to Forties blend crude with an aggregate US dollar equivalent value of approximately oil.
The parties agreed to set off the purchase price - 29.89 million $3,000.
In addition, certain BP employees met with Iranian $39.88 million equivalent - against IOCs share of operating costs government officials and other Iranian nationals outside of Iran.
No incurred or to be incurred by BPEOC as operator of the Rhum field gross revenues or net profits were attributable to these activities, under the Rhum joint operating agreement.
604,976 net barrels of save where otherwise disclosed.
BP will continue to monitor and Forties blend crude oil was loaded at a North Sea terminal in assess business opportunities in Iran which are compliant with EU January 2018 and delivered to BPs Rotterdam refinery.
Upon BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 299 See Glossary
