SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Investor information Electronic communications Visit our website, www.
co. uk, for investor information and Shareholders have previously passed a resolution enabling Company news.
In addition to accessing financial data, you can Brewin Dolphin to take advantage of provisions in the Companies view and download Annual and Half Year Reports, analyst Act 2006 that allow us to supply documents such as the Annual presentations and access the best of our research and investment Report and Accounts to our shareholders via our website views, plus lifestyle news and interviews.
This helps to reduce the cost and environmental impact of producing and distributing printed You can also subscribe to an email news alert service to documents.
Shareholders that wish to continue to receive automatically receive an email when significant announcements shareholder documents in hard copy can request this by writing aremade.
Shareholding information All shareholder communications, including the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, are made available to shareholders on the Please contact our registrars, Equiniti, directly for all enquiries Brewin Dolphin website and you may opt to receive email about your shareholding.
Visit their Investor Centre website notification that documents and information are available to view www.
co. uk for online information about your and download.
If you would like to sign up for this service, shareholding you will need your shareholder reference number visit Equinitis website.
You may change the way you receive which can be found on your share certificate or dividend tax communications at any time by contacting Equiniti.
Annual General Meeting Dividend mandate The 2019 Annual General Meeting of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC will be held in Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London Shareholders can arrange to have their dividends paid directly EC1A 9HQ on Friday 1 February 2019 at 11.30am.
into their bank or building society account by completing a bank mandate form.
The advantages to using this service are: the payment is more secure than sending a cheque through the post: it avoids the inconvenience of paying in a cheque: and there is no risk of lost, stolen or out-of-date cheques.
A mandate form can be obtained from Equiniti or you will find one on the reverse of the tax voucher of your last dividend payment.
Useful contacts Registered Office: 12 Smithfield Street, London ECIA 9BD.
44 0 20 7248 4400 Company Registration Number: 02685806 Company Secretary: T Brill 0.
co. uk Head of Investor Relations: D Orford investor.
co. uk Registrar: Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
co. uk from here, you will be able to securely email Equiniti with your enquiry.
