NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information The consolidated financial statements of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC the Company and its subsidiaries collectively, the Group forthe year ended 30 September 2018 were authorised for issue by the Directors on 27 November 2018.
The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report.
The Company is registered in England and Wales.
The address of the registered office is 12 Smithfield Street, London EC1A 9BD.
The separate financial statements of the Company are also reported.
Note 15 identifies the subsidiaries that have taken advantage under s479A of the Companies Act 2006 of the exemption from audit.
The significant accounting policies have been disclosed below.
The accounting policies for the Group and the Company are consistent unless otherwise stated.
Application of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and changes in accounting policies a.
New standards, amendments and interpretations adopted The following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions andarrangements: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 12 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 b.
Changes in accounting policies There have been no changes to accounting policies in the year.
c. New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective The table below sets out changes to accounting standards which will be effective for periods beginning on or after: Effective for period beginning on or after 1 January New or revised standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 2019 1 IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 2021 New or revised interpretations IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 2018 1 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 2019 Amendments IFRS 15 Clarifications to Revenue from Contracts with Customers 2018 IFRS 2 Amendments to Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 2018 IFRS 4 Amendments to Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 2018 InsuranceContracts IAS 40 Amendments to Transfers of Investment Property 2018 Annual Improvements to IFRS 20142016 Cycle: Makes amendments to the following standards: IFRS1 and IAS 28 2018 IFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 2019 1 IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures 2019 1 Annual Improvements to IFRS Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20152017 Cycle 2019 1 IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement 2019 Conceptual framework Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards 2020 1 references 1.
These amendments have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
Brewin Dolphin 98 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Directors are reviewing the impact of these new standards, amendments and interpretations and do not intend to adopt the standards early.
It is not currently expected that these will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group except asnoted below.
The Directors have reviewed the impact of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on theconsolidated financial statements and have estimated the impact of adopting these new standards.
The impact of IFRS 16 Leases is still being assessed by the Group and reliable estimates cannot be made at this stage.
The impacts on the consolidated financial statements of the Group are explained below.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018 and will be applicable to the Groups accounting period ending 30 September 2019.
The standard was endorsed by the EU during 2016 and supersedes existing revenue recognition standards, including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
The core principle of IFRS 15 is that revenue reflects the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled.
The standard establishes a principle based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers for recognising revenue: 1 identify the contract with the customer: 2 identify the performance obligations in the contract: 3 determine the transaction price: 4 allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract: and 5 recognise revenue when or as the entity satisfies a performance obligation.
The model determines when and how much revenue to recognise.
Revenue is recognised when an entity transfers control of goods orservices to a customer at the amount to which the entity expects to be entitled.
Depending on whether performance obligations expressed in the customer contracts are fulfilled, revenue is recognised either over time, in a manner that best reflects the entitys performance of those obligations, or at a point in time, when control of the goods or services is transferred to the customer.
IFRS 15 is more prescriptive in terms of its recognition criteria, with certain specific requirements in respect of variable consideration such that it is only recognised where the amount of revenue would not be subject to significant future reversals.
It also requires that the incremental cost of obtaining a customer contract should be capitalised if that cost is expected to be recovered.
New disclosure requirements are also introduced.
Transition The Group will adopt IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect method, by recognising the cumulative effect of initially applying IFRS 15 as an adjustment to the opening balance of equity at 1 October 2018.
The comparative information will not be adjusted and will continue to be reported under IAS 18.
Impact The Group has completed its assessment of the impact of adopting IFRS 15 which included reviewing all contracts it has with its customers to identify performance obligations and the timing of transfer of control of its services to the customer and reviewing incremental payments made to secure customer contracts.
Given the straightforward nature of the Groups revenue streams and the absence of significant judgement required in determining the timing of transfer of control of services, the adoption of IFRS 15 will not have a material impact on the amount and timing of revenue recognised in the Groups financial statements.
No adjustments to opening retained earnings are expected on transition following adoption of IFRS 15.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018 and will be applicable to the Groups accounting period ending30 September 2019.
The standard was endorsed by the EU in 2016 and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 addresses classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities by introducing a new principle-based approach driven by the cash flow characteristics of the asset and the business model in which it is held.
It also replaces IAS 39s incurred loss approach to impairment of financial assets with a more forward looking expected loss model.
IFRS 9 reforms the approach to general hedge accounting, aligning the accounting treatment with an entitys risk management activities.
The Group doesnot use hedge accounting and so this element of the new standard is not applicable.
Transition The Group will adopt IFRS 9 by recognising the cumulative effect of initially applying IFRS 9 as an adjustment to the opening balance ofequity at 1 October 2018.
The comparative information will not be adjusted and will continue to be reported under IAS 39.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Application of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and changes in accounting policies continued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments continued Impact The Group has completed its assessment of the impact of adopting IFRS 9 and determined that application of the new standard will neither have a material impact on the Group financial statements nor result in a material adjustment to opening retained earnings.
Classification and measurement IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into one of the following three measurement categories: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income FVTOCI and fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
The held to maturity, loans and receivables and available-for-sale categories available under IAS 39 have been withdrawn.
Classification is made on the basis of the objectives of the entitys business model for managing its financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments.
Amortised cost Financial assets will be measured at amortised cost if they are held within a business model the objective of which is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows, and their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest.
FVTOCI Financial assets will be measured at FVTOCI if they are held within a business model the objective of which is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets and their contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest.
FVTPL Financial assets not falling into either of these two classifications and all equity instruments unless designated at inception to fair value through other comprehensive income will be measured at FVTPL.
Impairment IFRS 9 replaces the IAS 39 incurred loss impairment approach with an expected credit loss ECL approach meaning there no longer needs to be a triggering event in order to recognise impairment losses.
The revised approach requires an entity to recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses on all debt-type financial assets thatare not measured at fair value through profit or loss, this includes lease receivables, contract assets and loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts to which the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 apply.
The ECL approach requires an expected credit loss allowance to be established upon initial recognition of an asset reflecting the level of losses anticipated after having regard to the Groups historical credit loss experience and its expectation of reasonable and supportable future economic conditions that incorporate more forward-looking information.
The ECL model has three stages.
Entities are required to recognise a 12-month expected loss allowance on initial recognition stage 1 and a lifetime expected loss allowance when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition stage 2.
Stage 3 requires objective evidence that an asset is credit-impaired, which is similar to the guidance on incurred losses in IAS 39, andthen a lifetime expected loss allowance is recognised.
The Group will apply the practical expedient permissible under IFRS 9 to use the simplified approach to determine lifetime expected credit losses for trade debtors which will be based on actual credit loss experience over the recent past and future expectation.
TheGroups trade debtors are short term and do not contain significant financing components.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The standard was endorsed by the EU during 2016 and supersedes IAS 17 the existing lease standard.
The standard will first be applicable to the Groups accounting period ending 30 September 2020.
The standard represents a significant change in the accounting and reporting of leases for lessees as it provides a single lessee accounting model that replaces the current model where leases are either recognised as a finance or operating lease.
Under the single lessee model, a right of use asset and corresponding lease liability will be recognised which represents future leasepayables, with movements through the Income Statement representing depreciation, additions or releases on the liability and unwinding of the discount for all leases unless the underlying asset has a low value or the remaining lease term is less than twelve months at the date of transition.
Accounting requirements for lessors are substantially unchanged from IAS 17 Leases.
Brewin Dolphin 100 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Transition On transition to IFRS 16, the Group can choose to apply one of two transition methods: the full retrospective transition method, whereby IFRS 16 is applied to all its contracts as if it had always applied: or the modified retrospective approach with optional practical expedients.
Impact The Group is primarily a lessee and is also a sub-lessor for a small number of property leases that have been identified as onerous.
On adoption, lease agreements will give rise to both a right of use asset ROU and a lease liability which represents the present valueobligation of future lease payments.
The ROU asset will be assessed for impairment annually incorporating any onerous lease assessments and will be depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the expected life of the asset and the lease term, adjusted for any remeasurements of the lease liability.
The depreciation charge will be recognised in the Income Statement.
The lease liability will be reduced by lease payments, offset by the unwinding of the liability over the lease term and amended for the impact of any lease modifications.
Interest recognised on the lease liability will be charged to the Income Statement.
The adoption of IFRS 16 will result in a significant gross-up of the Groups reported assets and liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
The depreciation of the ROU asset and interest charges unwind of the discounted lease liability will replace the lease costs currently charged to other operating costs in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis.
This will result in a change to the profile of the charge recognised in the Income Statement over the life of the lease: higher expenses will be recognised in earlier years of the lease, with a reduction in the annual expenses in the later years of the lease owing to the application of the actuarial method of accounting forthe lease liability.
An assessment of the impact of the new standard is currently being undertaken to assess the accounting impacts of the change, and the necessary changes to systems and processes.
The process of collecting the required data and identification of leases which fall within the scope of the standard is complete.
The Group has considered the available transition options and has decided to apply the modified retrospective approach and the practical expedient that allows an entity not to reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the date of initial application ofthestandard.
The Group will adopt certain optional exemptions available under IFRS 16 for short-term less than 12 months and low-value leases.
These leases will continue to be off balance sheet with rentals charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the leaseterm.
It is not yet practicable to provide a reliable estimate of the financial impact on the Groups consolidated results.
However, from the assessment to date, the Directors expect implementation of the new standard will have a material impact on the consolidated results ofthe Group.
The Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 74.7 million, see note 29.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements for both the Group and the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union, Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and Companies Act 2006. b.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the functional currency of the Company, rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the goods and services.
c. Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company itssubsidiaries.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company losescontrol of the subsidiary.
Specifically, the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated Income Statement from the date the Company gains control until the date when the Company ceases to control thesubsidiary.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC has taken advantage of the legal dispensation not to present its own Statement of Comprehensive Income or Income Statement.
The amount of the profit for the financial period dealt with in the financial statements of the Company is disclosed in the Company Statement of Changes in Equity.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Significant accounting policies continued d. Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Going Concern Statement and the Viability Statement included in the Strategic Report on page 33. e. Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition ismeasured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the Income Statement as incurred.
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisitiondate.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred the excess is recognised immediately in the Income Statement as a bargain purchase gain.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
f. Transaction date accounting All securities transactions entered into on behalf both clients and the Group are recorded in the accounts on the date of the transaction.
The underlying investments are not shown in the financial statements of the Group.
g. Foreign currencies In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the datewhen the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency arenot retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
h. Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents investment management fees and commissions, financial planning income, custody fees and trade execution commissions, excluding VAT, receivable in the period.
Investment management The Group recognises management fees in the period the related service is provided and commissions are recognised when the transaction is performed.
Financial planning The Group recognises financial planning income initial fees, initial commissions and ongoing advice fees in the period the related service is provided.
Execution only The Group recognises custody service fees in the period the related service is provided and commissions are recognised when the transaction is performed.
Brewin Dolphin 102 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Dividends received and receivable are credited to the Income Statement to the extent that they represent a realised profit and loss for the Company.
Other operating income Interest receivable and payable on client money balances is netted to calculate the Groups share of interest receivable and included under the heading Other operating income.
Leases Rentals on operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are recognised as a liability.
The aggregate benefit of incentives is spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
k. Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at fair value of the equity instruments at the date of grant.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equitysettled share-based transactions are set out in note 28.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the shares expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the Income Statement such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
l. Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expenses that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted by the balance sheetdate.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities inthe financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using thebalance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred taxassets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Significant accounting policies continued l. Taxation continued Current and deferred tax for the year Current and deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the current and deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
m. Investments in subsidiaries In the Companys financial statements investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
n. Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and is not reversed in asubsequent period see note 3 t for the Impairment accounting policy.
When the consideration transferred by the Group is deferred or contingent, this is valued at its acquisition date fair value, and is included in the consideration transferred in a business combination.
Changes in the deferred or contingent consideration, which occur in the measurement period, are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments to goodwill.
Subsequent to the measurement period, the deferred and contingent considerations are revised annually at the balance sheet date and any corresponding adjustments are posted to the Income Statement.
Client relationships Intangible assets classified as client relationships are recognised when acquired as part of a business combination or when separate payments are made to acquire funds by adding teams of investment managers.
Client relationships acquired separately are initially recognised at cost.
If acquired as part of a business combination the initial cost of client relationships is the fair value at the acquisition date.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairmentlosses.
When separate payments are made to acquire funds by adding teams of investment managers, elements of the total consideration maybe deferred or contingent.
In such cases the cost of the recognised client relationships includes the Companys best estimate ofthe future consideration likely to be made, discounted to present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money, and is revised at each balance sheet date.
Client relationships are amortised on a straight line basis over five to fifteen years, dependent upon the assessment of the estimated useful life of the client relationships.
Computer software Computer software which is not an integral part of the related hardware is classified as an intangible asset.
Costs of acquiring and developing computer software are treated as an intangible asset and amortised over three to ten years, dependent upon the assessment of the expected useful life of the software, on a straight-line basis from the date the software is operating as management intended.
The assessment of the expected useful life of computer software is based on the contractual terms or where appropriate past experience of the life of similar assets.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment.
Depreciation has been provided on the basis of equal annual instalments to write off the cost less estimated residual values of tangible fixed assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: Computer equipment 3 to 4 years Office equipment 4 to 10 years Leasehold improvements to the earlier of the expected lease term or 10 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Income Statement.
Brewin Dolphin 104 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information p. Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments and certain non-financial assets at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability ifmarket participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Fair value for measurement and or disclosure purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17, andmeasurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as value in use in IAS 36.
In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows: Level 1 inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date: Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of theinstruments.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL : available-for-sale financial assets AFS : and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classified as FVTPL where the financial asset is held-for-trading.
A financial asset is classified as held-for-trading if it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future.
Financial assets classified as FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss on remeasurement recognised in the Income Statement.
The net gain or loss recognised in the Income Statement incorporates any dividends or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the Income Statement.
Their value is determined in the manner described in note 3 p. Available-for-sale financial assets Certain assets held by the Group are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value.
Unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market are stated at fair value where the directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Fair value isdetermined in the manner described in note 3 p. Gains and losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the revaluation reserve with the exception of permanent impairment losses which are recognised directly in the Income Statement.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the revaluation reserve is reclassified to the Income Statement.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in the Income Statement when the Groups right to receive payment isestablished.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments and are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Financial instruments continued Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets areimpaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets.
For listed and unlisted equity investments classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of the impairment.
When an AFS financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the Income Statement in the period.
In subsequent periods if the amount of impaired loss decreases, in respect of AFS equity securities, impairment losses previously recognised in the Income Statement are not reversed through the Income Statement.
Any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities are classified as FVTPL where the financial liability is either held-for-trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in the Income Statement.
The net gain or loss recognised in the Income Statement incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the other gains and losses line item in the Income Statement.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 3 p. Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yieldbasis.
r. Netting of balances Amounts due to and from counterparties due to settle on balance are shown net where there is a currently enforceable legal right to set off the recognised amounts and an operational intention to settle net.
Amounts due to and from counterparties due to settle against delivery of stock are shown gross.
s. Post-retirement benefits Costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to the contributions.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Remeasurements comprising actuarial gains and losses and the return on scheme assets excluding interest are recognised immediately in the Balance Sheet with a charge or credit to the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income in the period in which they occur.
Remeasurement recorded in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income is not recycled.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and net interest expense or income is recognised within finance costs see note 9.
Defined benefit pension scheme asset liability The defined benefit pension scheme asset liability recognised in the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit pension scheme obligation, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Any asset recognised is only recognised to the extent that the Group is able, without condition or restriction placed on it by the trustees, to run the Scheme until the last member dies, without benefits being augmented: wind up the Scheme at that point: and reclaim any remaining monies.
Brewin Dolphin 106 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information t. Impairment of tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that it may be impaired.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
For the purposes of impairment testing, client relationships and goodwill are allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units.
Fair value is established by valuing clients funds in each of the cash-generating units at the period end: the percentages of funds being used depend on values attributed in recent public transactions for the purchase of advisory and discretionary funds.
If the carrying amount relating to any cash-generating unit exceeds the calculated fair value less costs to sell, a value in use is calculated using a discounted cash flow method.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of theunit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
If the recoverable amount of any asset other than client relationships or goodwill is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, thecarrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows where the effect of the time value of money is material.
Where some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that the reimbursement will be received and the amount receivable can be measuredreliably.
Onerous contracts Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
v. Employee share ownership trusts Brewin Dolphin Limited is the sponsoring employer of the Brewin Dolphin Share Incentive Plan Trust and the Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Employee Share Ownership Trust.
The assets and liabilities of the trusts are recognised as those of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC and obligations of the trusts are regarded as obligations of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC.
Shares of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC held by the trusts are treated as own shares held and shown as a deduction in equity.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in theyear in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of the revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.
Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies There have been no critical judgements required in applying the Groups accounting policies in this period, apart from those involving estimations which are detailed separately below.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty i. Amortisation of client relationships The useful economic life over which client relationships are amortised is determined by the expected duration of the client relationships which are determined with reference to past experience of account closures, in particular the average life of those relationships, and future expectations.
During the year, client relationships were amortised over periods ranging from 5 to 15 years.
A reduction in the average amortisation period by one year would increase the amortisation expense for the year by 1,583,000 2017: 2,154,000. ii.
Defined benefit pension scheme The calculation of the present value of the defined benefit pension scheme is determined by using actuarial valuations.
Management makes key assumptions in determining the inputs into the actuarial valuations, which may differ from actual developments in the future.
These assumptions are governed by IAS 19 Employee Benefits, and include the determination of the discount rate, life expectancies, inflation rates and future salary increases.
Due to the complexities in the valuation, the defined benefit pension scheme obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
The detailed assumptions, including a sensitivity analysis, are set out in note 17.
The defined benefit pension scheme has a surplus of 11,408,000 2017: 4,487,000.
See note 17 Defined benefit pension scheme asset recognition basis for further detail.
Share-based payments Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards are granted under the LTIP.
The scheme includes performance-based vesting conditions, which impact the amount of benefit paid, such as Average annual net inflows in discretionary funds: and Growth in adjusted diluted EPS over the performance period.
Assumptions are made on the likelihood of meeting certain average and stretch targets over the remaining service periods in determining the expense in the year.
The directors consider that the LTIP is qualitatively material.
If all of the performance conditions were assumed to be met the charge for the year would increase by 519,000 2017: 637,000 : anabsolute increase of 10% in the vesting assumptions would increase the charge for the year by 295,000 2017: 225,000.
Further information on the scheme is disclosed in note 28. iv.
Provisions Onerous leases The Group recognises a provision for several onerous property leases of 4,664,000 2017: 5,367,000.
The valuation of an onerous lease is based on the best estimate of the likely future costs discounted to present value.
Where the provision is in relation to premises and it is more likely than not that the premises will be sublet, an allowance for sublease income has been included in the valuation.
Theultimate amount of the provision is dependent on the timing of any sublet and the associated terms of the sublet achieved.
If the assumptions regarding unconfirmed sublet income are removed, the provision would increase by 3,917,000 2017: 7,958,000 to 8,581,000 2017: 12,094,000.
A delay of one year to the assumed sublets would increase the onerous lease provision and Income Statement expense for the year by 1,259,000 2017: 973,000.
Further information is disclosed in note 22.
Brewin Dolphin 108 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 5.
Income Group 2018 2017 000 000 Discretionary investment management fee income 223,697 203,172 Discretionary investment management commission income 59,725 55,677 Execution only custody fee income 4,352 3,894 Execution only commission income 6,301 6,482 Advisory investment management fee income 4,752 9,073 Advisory investment management commission income 1,776 3,810 1 BPS investment management fee income 1,101 999 Financial planning income 24,522 20,789 Revenue 326,226 303,896 Other operating income 2,801 568 Income 329,027 304,464 1.
Segmental information Group For management reporting purposes the Group currently has a single operating segment: the Wealth Management division.
Thisforms the reportable segment of the Group for the year.
Please refer to the Consolidated Income Statement on page 90 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet on page 92 for numerical information.
The Groups operations are carried out in the United Kingdom, Channel Islands and the Republic of Ireland.
The operations in the Channel Islands and the Republic of Ireland are not material and accordingly geographical segmental disclosures are not included.
Allsegmental income related to external clients.
The accounting policies of the operating segment are the same as those of the Group.
The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors by category was: Client facing 1,040 1,011 Business support 723 683 1,763 1,694 2018 2017 000 000 The aggregate remuneration including Executive Directors comprised: Wages and salaries 137,011 126,763 Social security costs 16,896 15,971 Share-based payments 8,915 8,052 Apprenticeship levy 658 417 Termination benefits redundancy costs 937 1,662 Defined contribution pension scheme and death in service contributions 10,405 10,566 174,822 163,431 Per Consolidated Income Statement: Staff costs 174,822 162,689 Redundancy costs 742 174,822 163,431 Company The Company does not have any employees 2017: none.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8.
Profit for the year Group Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2018 2017 000 000 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 14 2,468 1,917 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 20 40 Amortisation of intangible assets client relationships note 13 7,619 6,650 Amortisation of intangible assets software note 13 3,855 5,200 Reversal of impairment impairment of trade receivables note 16 4 16 Impairment of AFS assets note 19 162 Staff costs note 7 174,822 163,431 Auditors remuneration see analysis below 812 762 Analysis of auditors remuneration: 2018 2017 000 000 Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 71 64 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: the audit of theCompanys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 315 277 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for audit scope changes 50 386 391 Other services AAF 01 06 controls assurance report 98 71 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for AAF scope changes 50 Interim review 54 52 Regulatory assurance work 157 158 Additional fees for regulatory assurance work 40 50 Other assurance services 27 40 812 762 Details of the Groups policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit services are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 58.
Brewin Dolphin 110 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 9.
Finance income and finance costs Group 2018 2017 000 000 Finance income Interest income on defined benefit pension scheme 156 Interest on bank deposits 747 161 903 161 Finance costs Interest expense on defined benefit pension scheme 119 Unwind of discounts on provisions 102 58 Interest on bank overdrafts 15 11 117 188 10.
Income tax expense Group 2018 2017 000 000 Current tax United Kingdom: Charge for the year 13,074 11,594 Adjustments in respect of prior years 211 157 Overseas: Charge for the year 260 309 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8 Total current tax 13,545 11,738 Deferred tax United Kingdom: Charge for the year 1,743 705 Adjustments in respect of prior years 280 47 Total deferred tax see note 18 1,463 752 Tax charged to the Income Statement 15,008 12,490 United Kingdom corporation tax is calculated at 19.0% 2017: 19.5% of the estimated taxable profit for the year.
The Finance Act 2015 applied a 20% rate up to 31 March 2017 and Finance No.
2 Act 2015 reduced the rate applicable thereafter to 19%.
The Finance Act 2016 reduces the rate still further from 1 April 2020 to 17%.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the relevant prevailing rates in the respective jurisdictions.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
Income tax expense continued The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the Income Statement as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Profit before tax 68,504 57,643 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.5% 13,016 11,240 Tax effect of: Expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 1,776 1,396 Leasehold property 170 197 Share-based payments 222 162 Over provision for tax in previous years 69 118 Lower rates in subsidiaries 141 154 Impact of deferred tax rate change 34 91 Tax expense for the year 15,008 12,490 Effective tax rate for the year 21.9% 21.7% There are no material uncertainties within the calculation of corporation tax.
The tax provisions are based on tax legislations in the relevant jurisdictions and have not required any judgements or material estimates.
Dividends Group and Company 2018 2017 000 000 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the year: 2016 17 Final dividend paid 7 February 2018, 10.75p per share 2017: 9.15p per share 29,516 24,996 2017 18 Interim dividend paid 15 June 2018, 4.4p per share 2017: 4.25p per share 12,083 11,618 41,599 36,614 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2018 of 12.0p 2017: 10.75p per share based on shares in issue at 22 November 2018 2017: 23 November 2017 32,998 29,430 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2018 of 12.0p per share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Under an arrangement dated 1 April 2011, Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited the Trustee, holds 8,491,582 Ordinary Shares representing 3.0% of the Companys called up share capital in relation to employee share plans, has agreed to waive all dividends due to the Trustee.
Brewin Dolphin 112 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 12.
Earnings per share Group The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: 2018 2017 000 000 Number of shares Basic Weighted average number of shares in issue in the year 274,484 272,840 Diluted Effect of weighted average number of options outstanding for the year 8,262 10,162 Diluted weighted average number of options and shares for the year 282,746 283,002 1 Adjusted diluted Effect of full dilution of employee share options which are contingently issuable or have future attributable service costs 2,186 2,406 1 Adjusted diluted weighted average number of options and shares for the year 284,932 285,408 2018 2017 000 000 Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Profit for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 53,496 45,153 Redundancy costs 742 Onerous contracts 170 1,969 Amortisation of intangible assets client relationships 7,619 6,650 Acquisition costs 1,683 Incentivisation awards 1,318 1,297 FSCS levy refund 288 Impairment disposal of available-for-sale investments 162 2 less tax effect of above 683 1,481 Adjusted profit for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 61,794 56,011 2018 2017 Earnings per share Basic 19.5p 16.5p Diluted 18.9p 16.0p 2 Adjusted earnings per share Basic 22.5p 20.5p 1 Adjusted diluted 21.7p 19.6p 1.
The dilutive shares used for this measure differ from that used for statutory dilutive earnings per share: the future value of service costs attributable to employee share options is ignored and contingently issuable shares for Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP options are assumed to fully vest.
The Directors have selected this measure as it represents the underlying effective dilution by offsetting the impact to the calculation of basic shares of the purchase of shares by the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT to satisfy options.
Excluding redundancy costs, onerous contracts, amortisation of client relationships, acquisition costs, incentivisation awards, FSCS levy refund and impairment disposal of available-for-sale investments.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Intangible assets Group Client Software Goodwill relationships costs Total 000 000 000 000 Cost At 30 September 2016 48,637 107,902 18,206 174,745 Additions 25,708 879 26,587 Exchange differences 3 3 At 30 September 2017 48,637 133,613 19,085 201,335 Additions 325 1,076 1,401 Exchange differences 3 3 Disposals 968 968 At 30 September 2018 48,637 133,941 19,193 201,771 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 30 September 2016 85,105 8,587 93,692 Amortisation charge for the year 6,650 5,200 11,850 Exchange differences 2 2 At 30 September 2017 91,757 13,787 105,544 Amortisation charge for the year 7,619 3,855 11,474 Exchange differences 2 2 Disposals 968 968 At 30 September 2018 99,378 16,674 116,052 Net book value At 30 September 2018 48,637 34,563 2,519 85,719 At 30 September 2017 48,637 41,856 5,298 95,791 At 30 September 2016 48,637 22,797 9,619 81,053 Client relationship additions are made up as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Cash paid for client relationships acquired in current year 121 25,500 Deferred consideration for client relationships acquired in the current year 208 Adjustment to client relationships acquired in prior years 4 208 Total additions 325 25,708 The following table splits out the significant client relationship assets: 000 Carrying amount at year end 1 Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited 12,667 2 South East investment management team 2 20,450 3 Other investment management teams 1,446 34,563 1.
Amortisation period remaining 7 years 10 months.
Amortisation period remaining 5 years 7 months.
None of the constituent parts of the goodwill or client relationships relating to the other investment management teams is individually significant in comparison to the total value of goodwill or client relationships respectively.
Brewin Dolphin 114 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Goodwill impairment testing The table below shows the goodwill allocated to groups of cash-generating units CGUs : Groups of CGUs Goodwill No.
000 Carrying amount at year end Midland Branch 1 1 5,149 Midland Branch 2 1 5,284 Northern Branch 1 1 6,432 South East Branch 1 1 12,800 Other Branches 14 18,972 18 48,637 In accordance with IFRS, the Group performs impairment testing for goodwill on an annual basis or more frequently when there are indications of impairment.
Client relationships are reviewed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
The recoverable amount for each of the CGUs is the fair value less costs of disposal.
The fair value is determined by applying percentages to the funds for each CGU.
The percentages applied are a Level 2 input based on recent observable market transactions.
Discretionary funds are valued at 3% and advisory funds are valued at 1%.
Sensitivity analysis of the key assumptions All of the CGUs within the Group have sufficient headroom i. e. where the recoverable amount of the CGU is in excess of the carrying value, such that they are insensitive to all reasonable possible changes to the value of funds used for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
Investment in subsidiaries The following are the Groups subsidiary undertakings, all of which are owned 100% directly or indirectly by the Company and are included in the consolidated financial statements: Aggregate Name of Subsidiary Activity Country of registration Class of share capital Nominal Value 1 B. L. Nominees Limited Dormant Nominee England & Wales Ordinary 1 1 BDDL Limited Investment Manager England & Wales Ordinary 1 1 BDS Nominees Limited Client Nominee England & Wales Ordinary 1 2 Bell Lawrie White & Co. Limited Dormant Scotland Ordinary 0.01 1 Brewin 1762 Limited Dormant England & Wales Ordinary 1 3 Brewin 1762 Nominees Channel Islands Limited Dormant Nominee Jersey Ordinary 1 1 Brewin 1762 Nominees Limited Client Nominee England & Wales Ordinary 1 1,5 Brewin Broking Limited Dormant England & Wales A Ordinary B Ordinary 1 3 Brewin Dolphin Channel Islands Limited Dormant Jersey Ordinary 1 1,5 Brewin Dolphin Limited Investment Manager England & Wales Ordinary 1 1 Brewin Dolphin MP Investment Manager England & Wales A Ordinary B Ordinary 0.01 1 Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited Dormant England & Wales Ordinary 1 3 Brewin Nominees Channel Islands Limited Client Nominee Jersey Ordinary 1 1 Brewin Nominees Limited Client Nominee England & Wales Ordinary 1 1 DDY Nominees Limited Dormant Nominee England & Wales Ordinary 1 1 Dunlaw Nominees Limited Dormant Nominee England & Wales Ordinary 1 2 Erskine Nominees Limited Dormant Nominee Scotland Ordinary 1 1 Giltspur Nominees Limited Client Nominee England & Wales Ordinary 1 2 North Castle Street Nominees Limited Client Nominee Scotland Ordinary 1 2,5 Robert White & Co. Limited Dormant Scotland Ordinary 1 1 Shareline Yorkshire Limited Dormant England & Wales Ordinary 1 1 Smittco Nominees Limited Firm Nominee England & Wales Ordinary 1 4,5 Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited Investment Manager Ireland Ordinary A Shares 1.50 0.01 4 Tilman Brewin Dolphin Nominees Limited Client Nominee Ireland Ordinary 1 1,5 Webrich Limited Trustee England & Wales Ordinary 1 1 Wise Nominees Limited Dormant Nominee England & Wales Ordinary A Voting Ordinary B Voting Ordinary C 1 1 Wise Speke Financial Services Limited Dormant England & Wales Ordinary 1 1.
Registered office: 12 Smithfield Street, London, EC1A 9BD.
Registered office: Atria One, 144 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8BR.
Registered office: 2nd Floor, Kingsgate House, 55 The Esplanade, St Helier JE2 3QB.
Registered office: 3 Richview Office Park, Clonskeagh, Dublin 14.
All of the subsidiaries listed above are entitled to the exemption from audit under s479A of the Companies Act 2006, with the exception of BDDL Limited, Brewin Dolphin Limited, Brewin Dolphin MP and Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited.
Company 2018 2017 000 000 At 1 October 192,020 191,429 Capital contribution to Brewin Dolphin Limited in respect of share-based payments 3,529 591 At 30 September 188,491 192,020 Brewin Dolphin 116 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 16.
Trade and other receivables Group 2018 2017 000 000 Non-current assets 1 Loans 200 Total other receivables 200 Current assets Trade debtors 101,218 173,240 1 Loans 289 303 Other debtors 2,527 5,530 Accrued income 58,622 56,433 Prepayments 8,489 7,638 Total trade and other receivables 171,145 243,144 1.
All loans are to staff and the Directors believe that the balances are fully recoverable.
Trade debtors relate to either market or client transactions and are considered to be past due once the date for settlement has passed.
The date for settlement is determined when the trade is booked.
It is expected that some transactions may become past due in the normal course of business.
Fees owed by clients are considered to be past due when they remain unpaid after 30 days after the relevant billing date.
Trade debtors that are older than 90 days are provided for unless collateral is held.
The maximum exposure tocredit risk is the carrying value as above see note 27 for details of the Groups credit risk.
Ageing of past due but not impaired trade debtors 2018 2017 000 000 Not past due 99,808 171,993 Up to 15 days past due 1,104 710 16 to 30 days past due 55 44 31 to 45 days past due 13 115 More than 45 days past due 58 188 101,038 173,050 Individually impaired trade debtors 2018 2017 000 000 Individually impaired trade debtors 209 228 Provision for doubtful debts 29 38 180 190 Trade debtors 101,218 173,240 Movements in provision for doubtful debts 2018 2017 000 000 At 1 October 38 33 Net release charge to the Income Statement 4 16 Doubtful debts written off 5 11 At 30 September 29 38 No other financial assets of the Group or the Company, other than doubtful debts, are impaired.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
Trade and other receivables continued Company 2018 2017 000 000 Current assets Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 72,679 53,802 Total trade and other receivables 72,679 53,802 17.
Defined benefit pension scheme Group The Group operates a registered Defined Contribution Scheme the Brewin Dolphin Senior Staff Pension Fund and a registered Defined Benefit Scheme the Brewin Dolphin Limited RBS in the UK which both offer pensions in retirement and death benefits to members.
The disclosures provided are in respect of the Defined Benefit Scheme only the Scheme.
The Scheme is a HMRC registered pension scheme and is subject to standard UK pensions and tax law.
This means that the payment of contributions and benefits are subject to the appropriate tax treatments and restrictions and the Scheme is subject to the scheme funding requirements outlined in section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004.
The Scheme was established under trust and is governed by the Schemes Trust Deed and Rules.
In accordance with UK trust and pensions law, the Scheme has appointed Trustees.
Although the Group bears the financial cost of the Scheme, the responsibility for the management and governance of the Scheme lies with the Trustees, who have a duty to act in the best interest of members at all times.
Pension benefits are related to the members final salary at retirement and their length of service.
The pension is payable for life and has elements increasing in payment in line with inflation up to a maximum of 5% per annum.
Since 1 April 2003 the Scheme has been closed to new members.
Members under age 55 at 1 April 2004 ceased to accrue further service in the Scheme from that date.
From 1 October 2014, there is no longer any future benefit accrual following the retirement of the final in-service member.
Contributions to the Scheme for the year beginning 1 October 2018 are expected to be 1.98 million.
Valuation for funding purposes The valuation as at 31 December 2017: 000 Value of scheme assets 110,335 Actuarial value of scheme liabilities in respect of: In-service members 14,813 Deferred pensioners 38,852 Current pensioners and dependants 49,473 Value of scheme liabilities 103,138 Scheme surplus 7,197 Funding level 107% The Scheme is valued for funding purposes at intervals of not more than three years by an independent qualified actuary.
The latest valuation for funding purposes was as at 31 December 2017.
The actuarial valuation is used to assess the money the Group need to put into the pension scheme.
The Scheme was in deficit measured on the Schemes funding basis as at 31 December 2014, the 2014 funding valuation.
As a result, the Group agreed to pay additional contributions into the Scheme following the 2014 funding valuation and this has resulted in a scheme surplus at the latest funding valuation as at 31 December 2017, ahead of expectations.
As part of the 31 December 2017 valuation, it was agreed that the Scheme would fide-risk its investment strategy and the Group wouldcontinue to pay contributions of 0.25 million per month from 1 January 2018 until 28 February 2019 as was previously agreedfollowing the 2014 valuation to eliminate the deficit at that time.
In addition to this, the Group has also agreed to pay additional contributions of 1.25 million per annum from 1 March 2019 to 31 December 2020 so that the Scheme may continue to fide-risk and lock in the funding needed to pay out all future benefits in combination with a lower risk investment strategy.
The next actuarial valuation of the Scheme is due as at 31 December 2020, where the funding position of the Scheme will be reviewed.
The administration costs of the Scheme, including investment management fees and Scheme levy payments are currently paid by Brewin Dolphin Limited as they fall due.
Brewin Dolphin 118 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Maturity of the Scheme The liabilities of the Scheme are based on the current value of expected benefit payment cash flows to members of the Scheme over the next 60 years or so.
The average duration of the liabilities is approximately nineteen years.
Summary of amounts recognised in the financial statements under IAS 19 In the consolidated financial statements, the Group accounts for pension costs, other post-retirement benefits and related redundancy provisions in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Under the standard, the difference between the market values of Scheme assets and the present value of Scheme liabilities is reported as a surplus asset to the extent a surplus may be seen or deficit liability in the Balance Sheet.
The accounting value shown on the balance sheet will always be different from the result obtained usingthe funding basis for further explanation see below.
The pension valuation under IAS 19 as at 30 September 2018 was carried out by a qualified independent actuary.
In the preparation of the valuations under IAS 19 referred to in this note, the actuary has used the assumptions indicated below, which the Group has directed for the purposes of accounting and disclosure under IAS 19.
Amount, timing and uncertainty of future Scheme cash flows A sensitivity analysis of the principle assumptions used to measure the Schemes defined benefit obligation as at 30 September 2018 is set out further below.
The sensitivities cover the key assumptions shown.
The inflation assumption sensitivity factors in the impact of changes to RPI inflation which will impact on future expectations of increases in final pensionable salary which are capped at RPI increases, and pension increases and CPI inflation.
Explanation of the variance between funding valuation and IAS 19 valuation The accounts show the Scheme has a surplus of 11.4 million under IAS 19 as at 30 September 2018 compared to the surplus of 7.2million revealed by the last funding valuation as at 31 December 2017.
The main reason for the difference in surplus is due to thedifferent assumptions used to value the liabilities in the accounting and funding valuations for the Scheme, the funding valuation uses more cautious assumptions to value the liabilities while the accounting assumptions are derived in line with IAS 19.
The positive actuarial experience of the Scheme over the period from 31 December 2017 and 30 September 2018 has also been a factor.
Defined benefit pension scheme asset recognition basis Under IAS 19 the net defined benefit pension scheme asset that can be recognised is the lower of the surplus and the asset ceiling i. e. the economic benefits available in the form of refunds or reductions in future contributions or a combination of both, in accordance with IFRIC 14 IAS 19The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
Under the Schemes Trust Deeds and Rules the Group is able, without condition or restriction placed on it by the Trustees, to run the Scheme until the last member dies, without benefits being augmented: wind up the Scheme at that point and reclaim any remaining monies.
Consequently, the Group recognises the full surplus calculated in accordance with IAS 19 and IFRIC 14.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
Defined benefit pension scheme continued Risks The main risks to which the Group is exposed in relation to the pension scheme are: Mortality risk the assumptions adopted by the Group make allowance for future improvements in life expectancy.
However, if life expectancy improves at a faster rate than assumed, this would result in greater payments from the Scheme and consequently increases in the Schemes liabilities.
The Group and the Schemes Trustees review the mortality assumption on a regular basis to minimise this risk.
Investment risk the Scheme invests its assets in a diversified portfolio of assets.
There are risks that the assets underperform relative to increases in the value of the Schemes liabilities increasing the cost to the Group of the benefit provision.
There is a risk that the assets invested in do not sufficiently match the characteristics of the Schemes liabilities and so a fall in asset values is not similarly matched by a fall in the value of the liabilities.
While certain assets are chosen that match the characteristics of the Schemes liabilities and membership profile, the Scheme currently invests in a high proportion of equity and assets that are not expected to closely match the majority of the Schemes liabilities.
The Scheme invests in derivatives, predominantly interest rate and inflation rate swaps that are used to provide a liability matching overlay so that the value of these swaps and the gilts held match the majority of the movement in the liabilities to changes in interest rates and inflation.
The Schemes Trustees review the performance of the assets and structure of the portfolio on a regular basis to ensure the risks being taken under investment are commensurate with normal Trustees principles and the ability of the Group to mitigate adverse investment experience.
Price inflation risk some of the Schemes benefits increase in line with price inflation and so if inflation is greater than expected, the costs of providing these benefits will increase.
The Scheme holds government bonds with payments also linked to inflation to assist in mitigating this risk.
Financial derivatives risk the Scheme directly holds derivatives in the form of interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and total return swaps with the aim of enhancing how the Trustees matching assets match changes in the Schemes liabilities on the funding basis.
These are managed by the investment manager as well as all other assets and the Scheme Trustees determine the level of overall liability hedging that is employed.
Other than these derivatives used for liability matching and reducing risks, the Scheme does not directly hold any financial derivatives, but these may be held by some of the investment funds that the Scheme invests in.
The main risks associated with financial derivatives include: losses may exceed the initial margin: counterparty risk where the other party defaults on the contract: and liquidity risk where it may be difficult to close out a contract prior to expiry.
These risks are managed indirectly by the investment managers of the Scheme who will review the Schemes return seeking assets and the level of investment risk taking to ensure it remains appropriate taking account of the Trustees investment objectives.
The surplus recognised on the accounting basis is exposed to the risks that increases or decreases in the assets do not match those of the liabilities measured on the accounting basis.
The asset liability matching is based on the Schemes funding basis and so to the extent that the Companys measure for the liabilities in line with IAS 19 requirements changes relative to the measure of the liabilities on the funding basis which the assets are hedging, this could impact on the accounting surplus.
The funding position on the funding basis is protected to some degree by the level of hedging that is adopted and the Trustees plans to fide-risk in future years as the funding position improves.
Scheme investment strategy and level of matching The Schemes investment strategy is to invest broadly 60% in higher return seeking assets e. g. equities, high yielding bonds etc.
and40% in matching assets e. g. fixed interest gilts and index-linked gilts.
The objective is to target an investment return of 2.5% per annum net of fees in excess of a portfolio of gilts that closely matches the behaviour of the Schemes liabilities, falling to 0.5% per annum net of fees as the proportion of pensioner members increases to 100%.
The Scheme also has a liability matching overlay to mirror the majority of the movement in the matching portfolio.
This strategy reflects the Schemes liability profile and the Trustees and Groups attitude to risk.
The asset allocations as at 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2017 are provided below, disaggregated between assets that are believed to have a quoted market price in an active market.
The Scheme was hedging up to 100% of interest rate risk and inflation risk as at 30 September 2018 to reduce financial risks to the Scheme and the risks of additional contribution requirement for the Group.
The current longer term objective is to continue to hedge around 100% of both the interest rate risk and inflation risk of the liabilities: this will help to further reduce funding level volatility.
None of the assets of the pension schemes are invested in the Groups own financial instruments and none of the assets are properties or other assets used by the Group.
Brewin Dolphin 120 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Assumptions A full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2017 and has been updated to 30 September 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
The major assumptions used by the actuary were in nominal terms as follows: As at As at 30September 30September 2018 2017 Discount rate 2.80% 2.60% RPI inflation assumption 3.30% 3.30% CPI inflation assumption 2.30% 2.30% Rate of increase in salaries 3.30% 3.30% LPI pension increases 3.20% 3.20% Average assumed life expectancies for members on retirement at age 65.
Retiring today: Males 88.4 years 88.6 years Females 89.5 years 89.6 years Retiring in 20 years: Males 89.7 years 89.9 years Females 91.0 years 91.1 years Scheme assets and liabilities The assets in the Scheme were: 2018 2017 000 000 Equities and property quoted 30,214 47,890 Fixed interest bonds quoted 26,024 21,786 Index linked bonds quoted 18,067 15,868 Liability hedging quoted 1,583 235 Currency hedging quoted 161 939 Alternatives quoted 17,661 17,134 Cash and cash equivalents 16,656 2,958 Fair value of scheme assets 106,878 106,340 Net asset recognised on the Balance Sheet: 2018 2017 000 000 Present value of funded obligations 95,470 101,853 Fair value of scheme assets 106,878 106,340 Surplus in funded scheme and net asset on the Balance Sheet 11,408 4,487 Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the present value of the defined benefit obligation 2018 2017 000 000 Benefit obligation at beginning of year 101,853 112,385 Service cost Interest cost 2,590 2,433 Contributions by scheme participants Net remeasurement gains demographic 3,736 2,036 Net remeasurement gains financial 876 5,555 Net remeasurement losses gains experience 140 1,850 Benefits paid 4,501 3,524 Benefit obligation at end of year 95,470 101,853 Brewin Dolphin 121 www.
Defined benefit pension scheme continued Scheme assets and liabilities continued Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the fair value of plan assets 2018 2017 000 000 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 106,340 105,433 Interest income on scheme assets 2,746 2,314 Return on assets, excluding interest income 707 883 Contributions by employers 3,000 3,000 Contributions by scheme participants Benefits paid 4,501 3,524 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 106,878 106,340 The amounts recognised in the Income Statement are: 2018 2017 000 000 Service cost Net interest income expense on the net defined benefit asset 156 119 Settlements and curtailments Total income expense 156 119 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset included in Other Comprehensive Income OCI 2018 2017 000 000 Net remeasurement demographic 876 2,036 Net remeasurement financial 3,736 5,555 Net remeasurement experience 140 1,850 Return on assets, excluding interest income 707 883 Total remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset included in OCI 3,765 8,558 Sensitivity analysis It should be noted that the methodology and assumptions prescribed for the purposes of IAS 19 mean that the disclosures will be inherently volatile, varying greatly according to investment market conditions at each accounting date.
A sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions used to measure the defined benefit pension scheme as at 30 September 2018 is setout below.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Decrease by 0.25% Increase by 4.6m Rate of inflation RPI, CPI, inflation linked pension increases and salary increases Increase by 0.25% Increase by 3.4m Assumed life expectancy Members live 1 year longer Increase by 4.3m The average duration of the pension scheme liabilities is in the region of nineteen years.
The sensitivity figures have been calculated using the same method used for the calculation of the disclosed liabilities as at 30September 2018.
There are no material limitations of the method used to calculate the sensitivities relative to the disclosed liabilities.
Brewin Dolphin 122 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 18.
Net deferred tax asset In addition to the amount debited to the Income Statement, deferred tax relating to the actuarial gain in the defined benefit pension scheme amounting to 577,000 has been debited to other comprehensive income 2017: 1,383,000 debited to other comprehensive income relating to the actuarial gain.
Deferred tax on share-based payments of 541,000 has been debited to profit and loss reserves 2017: 1,065,000 credited to profit and loss reserves.
The following are the major deferred tax assets liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting year: Group Other Defined short-term pension Intangible Capital timing benefit Share-based Incentivisation asset allowances Revaluation differences scheme payments awards amortisation Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 30 September 2016 1,726 6 1,243 1,182 5,292 1,650 7,799 Credit charge in the year to theIncome Statement 157 342 562 204 513 752 Credit charge in the year to theStatement of ComprehensiveIncome 14 1,383 1,369 Credit in the year to the Statement of Changes in Equity 1,065 1,065 At 30 September 2017 1,569 20 901 763 6,153 1,137 6,743 Credit charge in the year to theIncome Statement 301 26 599 996 95 312 1,463 Charge in the year to theStatement of ComprehensiveIncome 21 577 598 Charge in the year to the Statement of Changes in Equity 541 541 At 30 September 2018 1,268 1 927 1,939 4,616 95 825 4,141 Deferred income taxes are calculated using substantially enacted rates of UK corporate tax expected to be in force at the time assets are realised as follows: Between 1 April 2017 and 31 March 2020 19% After 1 April 2020 17% Brewin Dolphin 123 www.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19.
Investments Group Available-for-sale investments Unlisted investments 000 At 30 September 2016 833 Additions 18 Net loss from changes in fair value recognised in equity 75 Disposals 40 At 30 September 2017 736 Impairment 162 Net gain from changes in fair value recognised in equity 2 Reversal of accumulated fair value losses recognised in equity on impairment 106 Disposals 6 At 30 September 2018 676 2018 2017 000 000 Equity 90 95 Asset-backed security 586 641 Total available-for-sale investments 676 736 The asset-backed security is a USD fixed rate note due to mature on 23 September 2019.
The available-for-sale investments are held at fair value.
Further information is disclosed in note 27.
Trading investments 2018 2017 000 000 Listed investments 356 36 Total trading investments 356 36 The trading investments are measured at fair value which is determined directly by reference to published prices in an active market where available.
They are held in an unregulated subsidiary, Brewin Dolphin MP, whose sole objective is to provide seed capital to the model portfolios managed under an investment mandate by Brewin Dolphin Limited.
Cash and cash equivalents Group 2018 2017 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 186,222 169,995 Company 2018 2017 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 1,445 433 Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at banks.
The carrying amount of these assets is equivalent to their fair value.
Brewin Dolphin 124 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 21.
Trade and other payables Group 2018 2017 000 000 Current liabilities Trade creditors 99,189 173,657 Other creditors 842 2,274 Other taxes and social security 11,923 9,973 Accruals 64,123 58,566 Deferred income 27 182 176,104 244,652 2018 2017 000 000 Non-current liabilities Other creditors 926 657 926 657 In the prior year, non-current liabilities were included in other creditors within current liabilities.
Trade creditors relate to either market or client transactions: the date for settlement is determined when the trade is booked.
Company 2018 2017 000 000 Current liabilities Accruals 63 Deferred income 4,366 3,303 Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings 7,334 7,334 11,700 10,700 22.
Provisions Group At Unused At 30September Utilisation of Unwinding of amounts 30September 2017 Additions provision discount reversed 2018 000 000 000 000 000 000 Sundry claims and associated costs 587 620 227 234 746 Onerous contracts 5,367 755 1,496 38 4,664 Social security and levies on share awards 3,474 1,420 1,385 54 3,455 Acquisition related payments 622 1,518 1,466 32 706 Leasehold dilapidations 2,044 111 44 32 56 2,087 12,0944,424 4,618 102 344 11,658 Current Non-current liability liability Total 000 000 000 Sundry claims and associated costs 746 746 Onerous contracts 838 3,826 4,664 Social security and levies on share awards 1,606 1,849 3,455 Acquisition related payments 106 600 706 Leasehold dilapidations 128 1,959 2,087 At 30 September 2018 3,424 8,234 11,658 The Group recognises a provision for settlements of sundry claims and associated costs.
The timing of the settlements is unknown, butit is expected that they will be resolved within 12 months.
The onerous contracts provision at 30 September 2018 is in respect of surplus office space.
The valuation of an onerous contract is based on the best estimate of the likely costs discounted to present value.
Where the provision is in relation to leasehold obligations onpremises and it is more likely than not that the premises will be sublet, an allowance for sublease income has been included in thevaluation.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Provisions continued A provision of 4.7 million 30 September 2017: 5.4 million has been recognised for surplus office space which the Group may not be able to sublet in the short term.
The maximum exposure is approximately 9.8 million as at 30 September 2018 30 September 2017: 13.4 million and represents the current estimated amount that the Group would have to pay to meet the future obligations under these lease contracts if the assumption regarding future uncommitted sublets is removed and the time value of money is ignored.
Thelongest lease term has 14.5 years remaining and accounts for 7.9 million of the maximum exposure.
The Group has made a provision of 2.1 million 30 September 2017: 2.0 million for leasehold dilapidations.
These costs are expected to arise at the end of the lease.
The leases covered by the provision have a maximum remaining term of 14.5 years.
The social security and levies on share awards provision is in respect of Employers National Insurance and Apprenticeship Levy on awards outstanding at the end of the year.
The provision is based on the Groups share price, the amount of time passed and likelihood of the share awards vesting and represents the best estimate of the expected future cost.
The provision recognised for acquisition related payments is in respect of both incentivisation awards and deferred consideration payable for the acquisition of client relationships.
The incentivisation award provision is 0.5 million 30 September 2017: 0.6 million and is payable to employees in relation to the retention and acquisition of funds and is based on the best estimate of the likely future obligation discounted for the time value of money.
The deferred consideration provision is 0.2 million 30 September 2017: nil and isbased on the best estimate of the likely future obligation discounted for the time value of money.
for key sources of estimation uncertainty impacting the provisions.
000 000 Authorised: Ordinary shares of 1p each 500,000,000 500,000,000 5,000 5,000 Allotted, issued and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 1p each 283,440,000 283,331,882 2,834 2,833 During the year the following shares were issued: Share premium Exercise price Share capital account Total Date No.
of shares pence 000 000 000 At 1 October 2017 283,331,882 2,833 152,320 155,153 Issue of options Various 108,118 103.5p 168.0p 1 157 158 At 30 September 2018 283,440,000 2,834 152,477 155,311 The rights and obligations attached to the ordinary shares of 1 penny each in the Company are as follows: In terms of voting every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company shall have one vote on a show of hands and one vote for every share held on a poll.
As regards dividends, all shares in issue at the year end rank pari passu for dividends.
Shareholders shall be entitled to receive dividends following declaration by the Company.
Dividends are not payable in respect of any nil paid shares that may be held by the Trustees in Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Employee Share Ownership Trust the Trust.
The Trustees of the Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Employee Share Ownerships Trust have agreed to waive all dividends due on the shares held in the Trust, 8,491,582 ordinary shares as at 30 September 2018 2017: 9,817,002.
There are no special rights for the ordinary shares in relation to control of the Company.
On a change of control, the following criteria will apply: 2004 Approved Share Option Schemes: Options can be exercised within 30 days of control being obtained.
The options will lapse after six months.
Long Term Incentive Plan: Awards will automatically vest upon change of control and options will become exercisable from the date of change of control and will remain exercisable for one month, after which the options will lapse.
Deferred Profit Share Plan: A replacement award could be made over shares in the acquiring company, otherwise the shares will vest in full and can be exercised within six months of control being obtained.
Share Incentive Plan: No Matching Shares shall be forfeited as a consequence of a change of control.
Equity Award Plan: Awards will automatically vest upon change of control and options will become exercisable from the date of change of control and will remain exercisable for one month, after which the options will lapse.
Brewin Dolphin 126 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The following options and awards have been granted and remain outstanding: Exercise 2018 2017 Scheme Grant date price No.
These options do not count towards dilution limits because the shares have been purchased in the market by the Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Employee Share Ownership Trust.
These options may be purchased in the market by the Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Employee Share Ownership Trust, in these circumstances they do not count towards dilution limits.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24.
Own shares Company The own shares reserve represents the matching shares purchased in the market and held by the Brewin Dolphin Share Incentive Plan and shares purchased by the Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT.
Shares held by: Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC ESOT 8,491,582 9,817,002 Brewin Dolphin Share Incentive Plan 156,330 160,464 Balance at 30 September 8,647,912 9,977,466 25.
Other reserves Merger reserve The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the share capital in a subsidiary is acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Group 000 Balance at 30 September 2017 70,553 Balance at 30 September 2018 70,553 Company 000 Balance at 30 September 2017 70,838 Balance at 30 September 2018 70,838 38.4 million of the merger reserve arose on a placing of the Companys shares and forms part of the distributable reserves.
Profit and loss account The profit and loss reserve forms part of distributable reserves, subject to the profits being realised.
Company 000 Balance at 30 September 2017 35,485 Balance at 30 September 2018 50,826 Revaluation reserve Group 000 Balance at 30 September 2017 85 Balance at 30 September 2018 2 The revaluation reserve represents the cumulative fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets recognised in other comprehensive income and does not form part of distributable reserves.
Brewin Dolphin 128 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 26. Business combinations Group 2018 There have been no business combinations during the year.
2017 On 10 May 2017, the Groups principal operating subsidiary Brewin Dolphin Limited acquired 100% of the ordinary share capital of BDDL Limited BDDL formerly named Duncan Lawrie Asset Management Limited and its dormant subsidiary undertakings DDY Nominees Limited and Dunlaw Nominees Limited.
BDDL and its subsidiaries were acquired to expand the Groups wealth management activities and contribute to the delivery of the Groups strategic objective of revenue growth.
Consideration transferred The fair value of the total cash consideration transferred was 27,968,000.
Acquisition related costs amounting to 1,683,000 were recognised as an expense in the Income Statement in the year ended 30September 2017.
Fair value of assets acquired, and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition: 000 Current assets cash and cash equivalents 2,468 Non-current assets Intangible assets 25,500 27,968 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: 000 Consideration paid in cash 27,968 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 2,468 25,500 See note 27 of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts for further detail.
Financial instruments and risk management Overview This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the financial instrument key risks market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk, the Groups policy and procedures for measuring and managing risk and the Groups management of capital.
Risk management The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for establishing and overseeing the Groups Risk Management Framework and riskappetite.
The Board has established a clear relationship between the Groups strategic objectives and its willingness to take risk through a Risk Appetite Statement.
The Risk Appetite Statement is an expression of limits qualitative and or quantitative giving clear guidance on the nature and quantum of risk that the Board wishes the Group to bear its risk appetite in order to achieve its strategic objectives whilst remaining within all regulatory constraints and its own defined levels of capital and liquidity.
The Board reviews the statement and related qualitative and quantitative measures on at least an annual basis to ensure the document continues to reflect the Boards appetite for risk within the context of the environment in which the Group operates.
The Groups Risk Committee provides oversight of the adequacy of the Groups Risk Management Framework based on the risks to which the Group is exposed.
It monitors how management complies with the Groups risk management policies and procedures.
It is assisted in the discharge of this duty by the Groups Risk & Compliance Department which has responsibility for monitoring the overall risk environment of the Group.
The Risk Committee also regularly monitors exposure against the Groups Risk Appetite.
The Groups Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the financial statements and working closely with the Risk Committee, for both review and oversight of internal controls.
The Audit Committee is assisted in the discharge of its obligations by Internal Audit who undertake periodic and ad-hoc reviews on the effectiveness of controls and compliance with risk management policies.
The Groups risk management policies are intended to ensure that risks are identified, evaluated and subject to ongoing monitoring andmitigation where appropriate.
The risk management policies also serve to set the appropriate control framework.
The aim is to promote a robust risk culture with employees across the Group understanding their role and obligations under the framework.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Capital structure and capital management The capital structure of the Group and Company consists of issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity.
Capital generated from the business is both reinvested in the business to generate future growth and returned to shareholders, principally in the form of dividends.
Capital adequacy is given a high level of focus to ensure not only that regulatory capital requirements are met, but that the Group is sufficiently capitalised against the risks to which it is currently exposed, as well as towithstand a range of potential stress events.
There were no changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the year.
Regulatory capital requirements The Group conducts an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA to assess the appropriate amount of regulatory capital to be held by the Group.
There are two active regulated entities in the Group: Brewin Dolphin Limited BDL regulated by the FCA and Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland.
The Jersey branch of BDL is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
The Pillar II capital assessment of the ICAAP is the Board of Directors opinion of the level of capital the Group should hold against the risks to which the Group is exposed.
The ICAAP is kept updated throughout the year to take account of changes to the profile of the risks facing the Group and for any material changes to strategy or business plans.
The ICAAP is discussed and approved at a Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Board meeting at least annually.
Regulatory capital adequacy is monitored by management.
The Group uses the standardised approach to credit risk to calculate Pillar I requirements.
The Group complied with the FCAs regulatory capital requirements throughout the year.
The regulatory capital resources of the Group were as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Share capital 2,834 2,833 Share premium account 152,477 152,320 Own shares 26,060 25,921 Revaluation reserve 2 85 Merger reserve 70,553 70,553 Profit and loss account 73,931 62,876 Regulatory capital resources before deductions 273,737 262,576 Deduction Intangible assets net of deferred tax liability 83,476 93,519 Deduction Defined benefit pension scheme asset net of deferred tax liability 9,469 3,724 Deduction Free deliveries 14 107 Total regulatory capital resources after deductions at 30 September 180,778 165,226 Information disclosure under Pillar 3 of the Capital Requirements Directive will be published on the Groups website before 31December 2018 at www.
Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each financial asset and financial liability, are disclosed in note 3 q to the financial statements.
Brewin Dolphin 130 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Categories of financial instruments Group Carrying value 2018 2017 000 000 Financial assets Available-for-sale investments 676 736 Fair value through profit and loss held-for-trading 356 36 Non-current loans and receivables 200 Current loans and receivables 162,656 235,506 Cash and cash equivalents 186,222 169,995 At 30 September 349,910 406,473 Financial liabilities Amortised cost 156,364 225,865 At 30 September 156,364 225,865 Company Carrying value 2018 2017 000 000 Financial assets Current loans and receivables 72,679 53,802 Cash and cash equivalents 1,445 433 At 30 September 74,124 54,235 Financial liabilities Amortised cost 7,334 7,397 At 30 September 7,334 7,397 The carrying value approximates to the fair value of the financial assets and liabilities held.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of the Groups market risk management is to both control and manage exposure within the Groups risk appetite whilst accepting the inherent risk of market fluctuations.
The Group undertakes trades on an agency basis on behalf of its clients.
The Group holds financial instruments as principal but does not trade as principal.
All trades are matched in the market see note 16.
The Group transacts foreign currency deals in order to fulfil our client obligations and any non-sterling costs to our business.
Foreign currency exposure is matched intra-day and at the end of each day.
The total net foreign exchange exposure resulting from income yet to be converted to sterling at the year end was a debtor of 687,000 2017: 497,000.
The Group is exposed to translation risk in respect of the foreign currency value of the net assets of Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited TBD.
At the year end TBD had net assets of 4.7 million 2017: 4.3 million denominated in its local currency Euros.
The Group does not hold any derivatives 2017: none.
There has been no change to the Groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk during the year.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk arising from both available-for-sale and held-for-trading investments.
Equity price sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to equity price risk at the reporting date.
If equity prices had been 5% higher lower: Pre-tax profit for the year ended 30 September 2018 would have been 17,750 higher lower 2017: 1,800 higher lower due to changes in the value of held-for-trading investment: and Other equity reserves as at 30 September 2018 would increase decrease by 4,500 2017: increase decrease by 4,800 pre-tax for the Group as a result of the changes in fair value of available-for-sale investments.
The Groups sensitivity to equity prices has not changed significantly from the prior year.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk in respect of the Groups cash and in respect of client deposits.
The Group holds client deposits on demand and in 30 day notice accounts variable interest rates.
During the year a 1% increase in base rate would have increased pre-tax profit by 1,040,000 2017: 1,044,000. Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a client or other counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Groups exposure to credit risk arises principally from the settlement of client and market transactions settlement risk and cash deposited at banks.
Settlement risk Exposures to settlement risk are spread across a large number of counterparties and clients.
A delivery versus payment DVP settlement method is also used for the majority of transactions, ensuring that securities and cash are exchanged within a short period of time.
Consequently, no residual maturity analysis is presented.
The Group also holds collateral in the form of cash, as well as equity and bonds which are quoted on recognised exchanges.
This collateral is held, principally, in Group nominee accounts.
Concentration of credit risk The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk with the exception of cash where the majority is spread across four major banking groups.
Maximum exposure The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting year is equal to the balance sheet figure.
Credit exposure Credit exposure in relation to settlement risk is monitored daily.
The Groups exposure to large trades is limited with an average bargain size in the current year of 16,633 2017: 15,702.
Impaired assets The total gross amount of individually impaired assets in relation to trade receivables at the year end was 209,000 2017: 228,000.
Collateral valued at fair value by the Group in relation to these impaired assets was 180,000 2017: 190,000.
This collateral is stock held in the clients account which per our client terms and conditions can be sold to meet any unpaid liabilities falling due.
The net difference has been provided as a doubtful debt see note 16.
Note 16 details amounts past due but not impaired.
Non-impaired assets Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired in respect of trade receivables relate mainly to bonds and equity trades quoted on a recognised exchange, are matched in the market, and are either traded on a DVP basis or against a clients portfolio in respect of which any one trade would normally be a small percentage of the clients collateral held in the Group nominee.
At the year end no financial assets that would otherwise be past due or impaired had been renegotiated 2017: none.
Loans to employees are repayable over a maximum of 3 years see note 16.
Brewin Dolphin 132 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The credit risk on liquid funds, cash and cash equivalents is limited as deposits are diversified across a panel of major banks.
This ensures that the Group is not excessively exposed to an individual counterparty.
The Groups policy requires cash deposits to be placed with banks with a minimum short-term credit rating of A-2 S&P P-2 Moodys F-2 Fitch, excluding Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited.
Requirements and limits are reviewed on a regular basis.
The Groups allocation of cash and cash equivalents to S&P rating grades has been outlined in the below table: A-1 A-1 A-2 Below A-2 Cash and cash equivalents -% 67.0% 30.6% 2.4% The Group maintains a set of Credit Risk policies which are regularly reviewed by the Board.
A due diligence review is also performed on all counterparties on an annual basis, at a minimum.
The investment of cash is managed by the Treasury Team.
There has been no material change to the Groups exposure to credit risk during the year.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group will be unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group maintains adequate cash resources to meet its financial obligations at all times.
When investing cash belonging to the Group or its clients, the focus is on security of principal and the maintenance of liquidity.
Client money is held in segregated client bank accounts with strict limits on deposit tenors, in accordance with regulatory guidelines designed to minimise liquidity risk.
The Group has a Liquidity Policy which is reviewed by the Board regularly.
The Groups intention, at all times is to operate with an amount of liquid resources which provides significant headroom above that required to meet its obligations.
Group cash resources are monitored on a daily basis through position reports and liquidity requirements are analysed over a variety of forecast horizons.
Liquidity stress tests are regularly conducted to ensure ongoing liquidity adequacy, and a Contingency Funding Plan is also maintained to provide backup liquidity in the unlikely event of a severe liquidity stress event.
At 30 September 2018, the Group had access to an unsecured overdraft facility of 10 million 2017: 10 million.
There has been no change to the Groups exposure to liquidity risk or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk during the year.
Group The following are the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required topay.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Company The following are the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Company can be required to pay.
At 30 September 2018 Up to 1 month to 3 months 1month 3months to1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Financial liabilities Amortised cost 7,334 7,334 7,334 7,334 As at 30 September 2017 Up to 1 month to 3 months 1month 3months to1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Financial liabilities Amortised cost 7,397 7,397 7,3977,397 Fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurringbasis Some of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The following table gives information about how the fair values of these financial assets and liabilities are determined.
Fair value as at Fair value as at 30September 30 September Valuation Significant Relationship 2018 2017 technique s and unobservable of unobservable 000 000 key input s input s inputs to fair value Level 1 Trading investments 356 36 Quoted bid prices in an n a n a activemarket.
Level 3 Available-for-sale 59 63 The valuation is based on Marketability As the marketability investments Equity published monthly NAVs.
Available-for-sale 31 32 The valuation is based on Marketability As the marketability investments Equity thenet assets as presented discount ranging discount increases inthe most recent audited between 30-50%.
the valuation financial statements of decreases.
A marketability discount is applied as this investment ishighly illiquid.
Available-for-sale 586 641 The valuation is based on the Marketability As the marketability investments Assetfair value of the loan notes as discount ranging discount increases backed securities presented in the most recent between 30-50%.
the valuation audited financial statements decreases.
Brewin Dolphin 134 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Fair value measurement recognised on the Balance Sheet The table above provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than the quoted price included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or a liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from formal valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis of the significant unobservable inputs used in valuing the Level 3 financial instruments is set out below: Financial asset Assumption Change in assumption Impact on valuation Current assets Available-for-sale investments Equity Marketability discount Increase by 5% Decrease by 2,400 Current assets Available-for-sale investments Asset-backed securities Marketability discount Increase by 5% Decrease by 45,000 Fair value hierarchy At 30 September 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 Held-for-trading Equities 356 356 Available-for-sale financial assets Equities 90 90 Asset-backed securities 586 586 Total 356 676 1,032 As at 30 September 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 Held-for-trading Equities 36 36 Available-for-sale financial assets Equities 95 95 Asset-backed securities 641 641 Total 36 736 772 Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurement of financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets Total 000 Balance at 30 September 2016 833 Additions 18 Net loss from changes in fair value recognised in equity 75 Disposals 40 Balance at 30 September 2017 736 Impairment 162 Reversal of accumulated fair value losses recognised in equity on impairment 106 Net gain from changes in fair value recognised in equity 2 Disposals 6 Balance at 30 September 2018 676 Brewin Dolphin 135 www.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
Share-based payments The Group recognised total expenses in the year of 8,915,000 2017: 8,052,000 related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
For a summary of all options and awards outstanding at the year end see note 23.
Equity-settled share option schemes The Group has one plan, the 2004 Approved Option Scheme the Scheme, for the granting of non-transferable options to employees.
All options granted have fully vested and the services received from employees entitled to options under the Scheme have been fullyexpensed.
Other equity settled share-based payment plans Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP is a conditional arrangement under which contingent share awards can be made to selected senior management, including the Executive Directors.
Details regarding the awards to the Executive Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
The award will vest in one tranche, no earlier than three years from the grant date.
Vesting will be subject to performance conditions which are set prior to each grant by the Remuneration Committee.
The performance conditions will be related to the financial performance of theGroup.
During 2018, the Group granted 914,935 LTIP awards which have an aggregate fair value of 3,063,000 at the date of grant.
The Black-Scholes model is used to fair value the LTIP at the date of grant.
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model used for the purposes of determining fair value were as follows: Weighted average share price 388p Weighted average exercise price 0.0p Expected volatility 27.50% Expected life yrs 3 Risk free rate 0.92% Expected dividend yield 4.92% Share Incentive Plan SIP Employees may use funds from their gross salary up to a maximum of 10% of their gross salary in monthly payments being not less than 10 and not greater than 150 to acquire ordinary shares in the Company Partnership Shares.
Partnership Shares are acquired monthly with an annual opportunity to top up contributions to the maximum annual limit of 1,800 or 10% of salary if lower.
For every Partnership Share purchased, the employee receives one matching share up to a total value of 20 per month.
All shares to date awarded under this scheme have been purchased in the market monthly: it is the intention of the Directors to continue this policy intheyear to 30 September 2019.
Deferred Profit Share Plan DPSP The DPSP provides for eligible employees to defer part of their annual profit share entitlement into an award over ordinary shares anAward.
Current policy is that employees receiving annual profit share in excess of 50,000 are required to defer 33% of any profit share in excess of this amount for a period of three years.
Additional deferral requirements apply to Executive Directors which are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Awards are generally in the form of nil cost options to acquire ordinary shares, although atthe discretion of the Committee they may also take the form of a conditional right to receive ordinary shares.
Awards in the form ofmandatory deferrals made to the employees who leave the Group at any time prior to vesting lapse unless the employee leaves as a result of good leaver provisions.
It is the intention of the Board to recommend our Trustees to purchase the shares in the market tosatisfy options awarded under this scheme in order to avoid dilution in the year to 30 September 2019.
During 2018, the Group granted 2,115,016 DPSP options which have an aggregate fair value of 7,434,000 at the date of grant.
Equity Award Plan EAP The EAP is a discretionary arrangement under which contingent share awards can be made to selected employees within the Group below Board level, for example to reward exceptional performance on behalf of the Group or in certain circumstances to aid key staff retention.
Awards are generally in the form of conditional share awards, although at the discretion of the Committee they may also take the form of share options.
Awards will normally vest three years after grant subject to continued service provisions.
Awards will only becapable of being satisfied with existing shares sourced via the Companys employee benefit trust.
No newly issued shares and or treasury shares can be used under the EAP.
Only non-director employees are eligible for selection to participate in the plan.
During2018, the Group granted 3,032 EAP awards which have an aggregate fair value of 11,500 at the date of grant.
Brewin Dolphin 136 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 29.
Operating lease arrangements Group The Group recognised operating leases payments as an expense in the year as follows: 2018 2017 Land and Hire of Land and Hire of buildings equipment buildings equipment 000 000 000 000 Lease payments 6,884 332 6,700 273 6,884 332 6,700 273 The Group has significant operating lease arrangements with respect to the premises it occupies.
Hire of equipment is in relation to multifunctional printers and vending machines.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2018 2017 Land and Hire of Land and Hire of buildings equipment buildings equipment 000 000 000 000 Amounts payable under operating leases: Within one year 7,035 216 7,143 233 In the second to fifth years inclusive 27,178 156 25,279 After five years 17,614 17,968 51,827 372 50,390 233 The balances disclosed above exclude future minimum onerous operating lease payments, these are included in the onerous contracts provision calculation see note 22.
The future minimum total commitments for onerous operating lease payments are set out in the table below: 2018 2017 000 000 Operating leases which expire: Within one year 1,534 1,086 In the second to fifth years inclusive 4,425 3,180 After five years 8,082 6,982 At 30 September 14,041 11,248 As at 30 September 2018, there was 7.1 million 2017: 3.6 million of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases.
These expected future sublease receipts have been deducted in arriving at the onerous contracts provision see note 22.
The calculation of the future operating lease commitments has certain assumptions based on whether or not the Group expects to exercise break options.
If these assumptions are removed and it is assumed that the Group will remain in all properties until the lease end date, the total commitment is 60.7 million 2017: 58.7 million and if the onerous lease commitments are included, the total commitment is 74.7 million 2017: 70.0 million.
Contractual commitments Group Capital expenditure authorised and contracted for at 30 September 2018 but not provided in the Financial Statements amounted to 2.1 million 2017: 3.8 million.
co. uk NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
Notes to the Cash Flow Statement Group 2018 2017 000 000 Operating profit 67,880 57,668 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,468 1,917 Amortisation of intangible assets client relationships 7,619 6,650 Amortisation of intangible assets software 3,855 5,200 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 20 40 Defined benefit pension scheme 3,000 3,000 Share-based payment expense 8,915 8,052 Translation adjustments 8 40 Interest income 747 161 Interest expense 15 11 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 88,481 76,717 Decrease increase in payables and provisions 68,695 25,662 Decrease increase in receivables and trading investments 72,179 25,011 Cash generated by operating activities 91,965 77,368 Tax paid 12,260 9,905 Net cash inflow from operating activities 79,705 67,463 Company 2018 2017 000 000 Operating profit 61,393 43,434 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 61,393 43,434 Decrease increase in payables 63 41 Increase in receivables and trading investments 18,877 7,601 Cash generated by operating activities 42,453 35,874 Tax paid Net cash inflow from operating activities 42,453 35,874 32.
Post balance sheet events Group and Company There have been no post balance sheet events.
Brewin Dolphin 138 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 33.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation.
The primary statements of the Company include amounts attributable to subsidiaries.
These amounts have been disclosed in aggregate in the relevant notes to the financial statements of the Company and in detail in the following table: Amounts owed Amounts owed by related parties to related parties 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Bell Lawrie White & Co. Limited 2,434 2,434 Brewin Dolphin Limited 72,679 53,802 Brewin Broking Limited 4,900 4,900 72,679 53,802 7,334 7,334 All amounts owed by related parties are interest free and repayable on demand.
The only effect of related party transactions on the profit and loss of the Company was in respect of dividends.
The Company receiveddividends of 60,500,000 2017: 42,500,000 from Brewin Dolphin Limited and 1,001,650 2017: 976,800 from Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited.
The Group companies did not enter into any transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group during the year, save as disclosed elsewhere in these financial statements.
All amounts outstanding with related parties are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Remuneration of key management personnel KMP Key management personnel are responsible for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Key management personnel for the Group have been determined to be the Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
The remuneration expense for key management personnel is as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 4,764 4,999 Post-employment benefits 26 37 Share-based payments: Lapses where KMP have left the Group 31 331 Continuing KMP 2,054 1,254 6,813 5,959 The remuneration of individual Directors is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 63 in addition to the disclosureabove.
A number of the Groups key management personnel and their close family members make use of the services provided by companies within the Group.
Charges for such services are made at various staff rates.
Directors transactions There are no contracts, loans to Directors or other related party transactions with Directors.
