Additional disclosures Information on the Group In 2012, the Group acquired CN Creative Limited, a UK-based Overview start-up company specialising in the development of e-cigarette British American Tobacco p. l. c. is the parent holding company of the technologies.
During 2013, the Group entered into joint operations Group, a leading, multi-category consumer goods company that in China.
In 2015, the Group acquired: the shares it did not already provides tobacco and nicotine products to millions of consumers own in Souza Cruz: the CHIC Group, a vapour product business in around the world.
According to the Groups internal estimates, the Poland: and TDR d. o. o. a cigarette manufacturer in Central Europe.
BAT Group is a market leader by volume in more than 50 countries, Also in 2015, in connection with RAIs purchase of Lorillard Inc, the producing the cigarette chosen by one in eight of the worlds one Group invested US$4.7 billion to maintain its approximate 42% equity billion smokers.
Effective 1 January 2018, the Group, excluding the position in the enlarged RAI.
Groups associated undertakings, was organised into four regions: the United States US Reynolds American Inc., Asia-Pacific and the In 2016, the Group acquired Ten Motives, a UK-based e-cigarette Middle East APME, Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa AmSSA and business with particular strength in traditional grocery and Europe and North Africa ENA.
For presentation purposes within this convenience channels.
Annual Report and Form 20-F, all prior periods have been revised to In 2017, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 57.8% be consistent with the current reporting structure.
The Group has a of RAI the Group did not already own.
Following completion of the devolved structure, with each local company having responsibility for acquisition, RAI became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of BAT its operations.
and is no longer a publicly-held corporation.
The Groups range of combustible products covers all segments, from During 2017, the Group acquired certain tobacco assets from value-for-money to premium with a portfolio of international, regional Bulgartabac Holding AD in Bulgaria and Fabrika Duhana Sarajevo and local tobacco brands to meet a broad array of adult tobacco FDS in Bosnia.
The Group also acquired Winnington Holdings AB consumer preferences wherever the Group operates.
The Group is in Sweden and certain assets from Must Have Limited in the UK, investing in building a portfolio of potentially less harmful tobacco and including the electronic cigarette brand ViP.
The financial impact of nicotine products alongside its traditional tobacco business including these transactions to the Group were immaterial individually and vapour and tobacco heating products THPs in the Next Generation in aggregate.
Products NGP category, and, in the oral tobacco and nicotine products category, products such as snus, tobacco-free nicotine On 21 December 2017, the Group signed an agreement to acquire pouches and moist snuff.
Collectively, the Group refers to these 100% of the share capital of Twisp Propriety Limited, a South African products as its potentially reduced-risk products PRRPs.
In July 2018 the South African Competition Commission recommended to the Competition Tribunal The Group manages a globally-integrated supply chain and its that the transaction be prohibited on the grounds that it would lessen products are distributed to retail outlets worldwide.
the potential competition that would exist if BAT launched its own History and development of BAT brand rather than acquired Twisp.
BAT is appealing this decision to the Tribunal, with a decision expected in 2019.
The Group has had a significant global presence in the tobacco industry for over 100 years.
BAT Ltd. was incorporated in 1902, when In 2018, the Group acquired Quantus Beteiligungs-und the Imperial Tobacco Company and the American Tobacco Company  mbH, which houses the vapour retail business of agreed to form a joint venture company.
BAT Ltd. inherited companies High End Smoke in Germany.
and quickly expanded into major markets, including India and Ceylon, BAT was incorporated in July 1997 under the laws of England Egypt, Malaya, Northern Europe and East Africa.
In 1927, BAT Ltd. and Wales as a public limited company and is domiciled in the expanded into the US market through its acquisition of B&W.
During the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, the Group diversified its business Seasonality under the umbrella of B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. with acquisitions in the paper, cosmetics, retail and financial services industries, among The Groups business segments are not significantly affected by others.
Various business reorganisations followed as the business was seasonality although in certain markets cigarette consumption trends eventually refocused on the Groups core cigarette, cigars and tobacco rise during summer months due to longer daylight time and tourism.
products businesses with BAT becoming a separately listed entity on Patents and trademarks the LSE in 1998.
Our trademarks, which include the brand names under which our In 1999, the Group announced a global merger with Rothmans products are sold, are key assets which we consider, in the aggregate, International, at that time the fourth largest tobacco company in the to be important to the business as a whole.
As well as protecting our world.
The Group acquired Imperial Tobacco Canada in 2000, and in brand names by way of trademark registration, we also protect our 2003 the Group acquired Ente Tabacchi Italiani S. p. A. Italys stateinnovations by means of patents and designs in key global jurisdictions.
Investments were made in Peru and Serbia in 2003, through the acquisitions of Tabacalera Nacional and Duvanska Industrija Vranje.
In July 2004, the US assets, liabilities and operations, other than certain specified assets and liabilities, of BATs wholly-owned subsidiary, B&W, were combined with RJR Tobacco Company.
RAI was formed as a new holding company for these combined businesses.
As a result of the B&W business combination, B&W acquired beneficial ownership of approximately 42% of the RAI shares.
In 2008, the BAT Group acquired Tekel, the Turkish state-owned tobacco company, as well as 100% of the cigarette and snus business of Skandinavisk Tobakskompagni A S. Following the acquisition of its business during 2009, the Group recognised an effective 99% interest in Bentoel in Indonesia.
In 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of Protabaco in Colombia.
254 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
