Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Regulation of the Groups business Overview The Groups businesses operate under increasingly stringent regulatory regimes worldwide.
The tobacco industry is one of the most highlyregulated in the world, with manufacturers required to comply with a variety of different regulatory regimes across the globe.
The Group continues to respond to these regimes and engages with governments and other regulatory bodies to find solutions to changing regulatory landscapes.
Restrictions on the manufacture, sale, marketing and packaging of tobacco products are in place in nearly all countries and markets.
Regulation can typically be categorised as follows: Place: including regulations restricting smoking in private, public and work places e. g. public place smoking bans : Product: including: regulations on the use of ingredients, product design and attributes e. g. ceilings regarding tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yields, as well as restrictions on flavours : product safety regulations e. g. General Product Safety Directive 2001 95 EC, electrical safety regulations and reduced cigarette ignition propensity standards : and regulatory product disclosure requirements e. g. in relation to ingredients and emissions : Packaging and labelling: including regulations on health warnings and other government-mandated messages e. g. in respect of content, positioning, size and rotation : restrictions on the use of certain descriptors and brand names: requirements on pack shape, size, weight and colour and mandatory plain packaging: Sponsorship, promotion and advertising: including partial or total bans on tobacco advertising, marketing, promotions and sponsorship and restrictions on brand sharing and stretching the latter refers to the creation of an association between a tobacco product and a non-tobacco product by the use of tobacco branding on the non-tobacco product : Purchase: including regulations on the manner in which tobacco products are sold, such as type of outlet e. g. supermarkets and vending machines and how they are sold e. g. above-the-counter versus beneath-the-counter : and Price: including regulations which have implications for the prices that manufacturers can charge for their tobacco products e. g. excise taxes and minimum prices.
In addition, the Group operates a number of global policies, and in some cases its businesses have also entered into voluntary agreements, which may impose more onerous obligations or standards than those imposed by local legislation.
World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control Much of the recent development in regulation at a global level has been driven by the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC.
The FCTC came into force in 2005 and contains provisions aimed at, among other things, reducing tobacco consumption and toxicity.
The original treaty is supplemented by protocols and guidelines.
While these guidelines are not legally binding, they provide a framework of recommendations for parties to the guidelines.
To date, the FCTC has been ratified by 181 countries, not including the US.
The FCTC has led to increased efforts by tobacco-control advocates and public health organisations to reduce the supply of and demand for tobacco products, and to encourage governments to further regulate the tobacco industry.
As national regulations increasingly reflect global influences, the scope of areas regulated will likely further expand.
The guidelines on advertising, promotion and sponsorship, for example, seek to broaden the definition of tobacco advertising to include product display, the use of vending machines as well as the design of the pack itself.
Where adopted by contracting parties, a number of the measures referred to in the guidelines may result in either additional costs for the tobacco industry or restrictions on a manufacturers ability to differentiate its products and communicate those differences to adult smokers.
For example, a change in the number and size of on-pack health warnings requires new printing cylinders to be commissioned, while the implementation of new plant protection product standards, product testing and the submission of ingredients information to national governments require extensive resources, time and material.
EU Tobacco and Related Products Directive 2014 40 EU Other developments in regulation have been driven by tobacco control activities undertaken outside the FCTC process.
For example, the EU Tobacco Products Directive 2001 37 EC, referred to as TPD1, was adopted by the EU in May 2001 for transposition into EU member states laws by September 2002.
TPD1 included provisions that set maximum tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yields, introduced larger health warnings and banned descriptors such as light and mild.
A revised TPD1, the EU Tobacco and Related Products Directive 2014 40 EU, referred to as the TPD2, was adopted in April 2014 for transposition into EU member states law by May 2016.
Provisions of the TPD2 include: larger combined pictorial and textual health warnings covering 65% of the two main pack surfaces front and back for cigarettes: restrictions on pack shape and size, including minimum pack sizes of 20 sticks for cigarettes and 30g for roll-your-own and make-your-own tobacco: increased ingredients reporting: tracking and tracing requirements: and for e-cigarettes: nicotine limits, pre-market notification, ingredients reporting and advertising bans.
Among other things, the TPD2 bans the sale of cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco with a characterising flavour.
Menthol-flavoured cigarettes are exempt from the ban until May 2020.
See The US for information pertaining to the regulation of menthol in that market.
The TPD2 also purports to leave open to EU member states the possibility of further standardising the packaging of tobacco products and to apply its provisions in different ways.
For example, it provides, among other things, that the labelling, packaging and the tobacco product itself shall not include any element or feature that suggests that a particular tobacco product has vitalising, energetic, healing, rejuvenating, natural or organic properties or has other health or lifestyle benefits.
On 1 February 2017, the French government applied its laws transposing these provisions into French national law to prohibit the sale of all variants of Vogue cigarettes from February 2018, as well as the use of certain other tobacco brand and brand variant names.
The law was subsequently annulled, but France may seek to reintroduce it.
Belgium is considering adopting a similar approach.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 285 Additional disclosures Regulation of the Groups business continued Singleuse plastics Following a series of negotiations between the EU institutions, a provisional agreement has been reached on the Single-Use Plastics Directive.
Once the text is formally adopted, which is expected in the coming months, the Directive will require the tobacco industry to cover the costs of Consumer Awareness campaigns and Extended Producer Responsibility EPR schemes tackling the clean-up, collection, transport and treatment of tobacco filter waste.
Member states will be required to ensure EPR schemes are in place by 5 January 2023.
The industry will also be required to apply two environmental markings on the pack by the end of Q2 2021, the detail and content of which will be set out in secondary legislation by the European Commission.
Restrictions on smoking in private, public and work places The Group operates in a number of markets which have in place restrictions on smoking in certain private, public and work places, including restaurants, bars and nightclubs.
While these restrictions vary in scope and severity, extensive public and work place smoking bans have been enacted in markets including the US, Canada, the UK, Spain, New Zealand and Australia.
Restrictions on smoking in private have also been adopted or proposed, and typically take the form of prohibitions on smoking in cars or residential homes when children are present, or smoking within a certain distance from specified public places such as primary schools.
Regulation of ingredients, including flavoured tobacco products A number of countries have restricted and others are seeking to restrict or ban the use of certain flavours or ingredients in cigarettes and other tobacco products, on the basis that such products are alleged to appeal disproportionally to minors, act as a catalyst for young people taking up smoking and or increase the addictiveness or toxicity of the relevant product.
In Canada, the manufacture and sale of cigarettes, little cigars and blunt wraps with characterising flavours are banned.
While the Canadian ingredient ban currently exempts menthol at the federal level, most Canadian provinces have adopted or are in the process of adopting menthol bans.
The Canadian federal government has also recently published draft regulations that would prohibit menthol in cigarettes.
In Australia, the majority of the states have banned flavours in cigarettes that give an overtly fruit-flavoured taste and the government is currently considering further regulatory options.
The TPD2 similarly bans the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco with a characterising flavour other than tobacco, subject to an exemption until May 2020 for menthol cigarettes.
An ingredients ban in Brazil, which would ban the use of certain ingredients with flavouring or aromatic properties, including menthol, is not currently in force due to ongoing legal challenges.
In Turkey, a ban on the use of menthol in cigarettes will apply from 20 May 2020.
A number of the above regulations are subject to ongoing legal challenges.
Further legislation on ingredients is to be expected.
In particular, the EU Commission is required to prepare a report by no later than 20 May 2021 in respect of, among other things, the benefits of establishing a single list of permitted ingredients at the EU level by reference to available scientific evidence on the toxic and addictive effects of different ingredients.
Similarly, the Conference of Parties to the FCTC has tasked a working group to further elaborate the partial guidelines on the regulation of the contents of tobacco products and tobacco product disclosures.
Plain and standardised packaging Plain or standardised packaging generally refers to a ban on the use of trademarks, logos and colours on packaging other than the use of a single colour and the presentation of brand name and variant in a specified font and location s. The presentation of individual cigarettes may be similarly restricted.
Plain packaging is particularly high on the agenda of tobacco control groups, and the FCTC guidelines recommend that contracting parties consider introducing plain packaging.
To date, fifteen countries including Australia, Canada, France, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and the UK have adopted plain packaging legislation, although in the majority of those countries the legislation has not yet been fully implemented.
Countries, territories and states that are currently considering adopting plain packaging legislation include, but are not limited to, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, the Netherlands, Singapore and South Africa.
Others, such as Hong Kong, are considering implementing large graphic health warnings.
Product display bans at point of sale and licensing regimes Product display bans at point of sale and licensing regimes have been in place in a number of countries for several years and have been implemented both at national and state levels.
Ireland was the first EU member state to introduce a point-of-sale display ban, which became effective in July 2009, with Norway, Iceland, Finland, New Zealand, Thailand, Canada, Australia, the UK and a number of other countries implementing or passing similar legislation banning tobacco displays.
A number of countries, such as Hungary, have also sought to restrict the supply of tobacco products, including through the adoption of licensing regimes limiting the number of retail outlets from which it is possible to purchase tobacco products and or by prohibiting the sale of tobacco products within a certain distance of specified public places.
Illicit trade The illegal market for tobacco products is an increasingly important issue for governments and the industry across the world.
Euromonitor International estimates that approximately 456 billion cigarettes per year are smuggled, manufactured illegally or counterfeited.
A number of governments, regulators and organisations have or are considering adopting regulation to support anti-illicit trade activities.
Among other forms, such regulation may comprise mandatory tracking and tracing requirements, enabling regulators to identify the point at which any seized product left the legal supply chain, security features to combat counterfeiting and inspection and authentication obligations in respect of seized product.
The TPD2, for example, requires that all unit packets of tobacco are marked with a unique and irremovable identifier, which when scanned provides various information about that products route to market.
In November 2012, the FCTC adopted the Protocol to Eliminate Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products which includes a raft of supply chain control measures, including the implementation of tracking and tracing technologies.
The Protocol entered into force on 25 September 2018 and was considered at the first session of the Meeting of the Parties to the Protocol in October 2018.
As at 1 January 2019, 48 parties have ratified the Protocol.
286 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Vapour products More recently, significant debate has been generated regarding the appropriate regulation of vapour products, including regulation of the nicotine liquids used in them.
As the nascent vapour category has grown in size and complexity in a relatively short period of time, a consensus framework for regulation and taxation has yet to emerge.
The TPD2, for example, establishes frameworks for the regulation of novel tobacco products and e-cigarettes, introducing nicotine limits, health warnings requirements, advertising bans and pre-market notification and postmarket disclosure obligations.
Conversely, some governments have intentionally banned or are seeking to ban novel tobacco products and products containing nicotine, while others would need to amend their existing legislation in order to permit their sale.
For example, in Australia nicotine is classified as poison, meaning that the importation of vaping products or nicotine refill liquids is illegal in every state and territory, as is the possession and use of these products.
Even in countries where the sale of vapour products is permitted, some governments have adopted, or are seeking to adopt, bans on vaping in public places.
The US Through the RAI subsidiaries, the Group is subject to US federal, state and local laws and regulations.
In 2009, President Obama signed into law the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act FSPTCA, which grants the US Food & Drug Administration FDA broad authority over the manufacture, sale, marketing and packaging of tobacco products.
Key elements of the FSPTCA include: filing of facility registrations, product listing, constituent testing and ingredient information: obtaining FDA clearance for all new products or product modifications: banning all characterising flavours other than tobacco or menthol in cigarettes: establishing user fees to fund the FDAs regulation of tobacco products: increasing the health warning size on cigarette packs with the option to introduce pictorial health warnings: implementing good manufacturing practices: revising the labelling and advertising requirements for smokeless tobacco products: and requiring the study of menthol.
The US Congress did limit the FDAs authority in two areas, prohibiting it from: banning categories of tobacco products: and requiring the reduction of nicotine yields of a tobacco product to zero.
On 10 May 2016, the FDA issued a final regulation, referred to as the Final Rule, deeming all products that meet the FSPTCAs definition of tobacco product to be subject to the FDAs regulatory authority under the FSPTCA.
The Final Rule became effective as of 8 August 2016, though each requirement of the Final Rule has its own compliance date.
Such newly deemed tobacco products subject to the FSPTCA include, among others, electronic nicotine delivery systems including e-cigarettes, e-hookah, e-cigars, vape pens, advanced refillable personal vapourisers, electronic pipes and e-liquids mixed in vape shops, certain dissolvable tobacco products, cigars and pipe tobacco.
The grandfather date under the Final Rule for newly deemed products remains the same as the grandfather date for those tobacco products already subject to the FSPTCA 15 February 2007.
Any tobacco product that was not legally marketed as of 15 February 2007 will be considered a new tobacco product subject to pre-market review by the FDA.
The FDA has recognised that few, if any, e-cigarettes were on the market as of 15 February 2007, but thousands of such products including R. J. Reynolds Vapors Vuse Digital Vapor Cigarette subsequently have entered into commerce.
To address this issue, the FDA established a compliance policy regarding the pre-market review requirements for all newly deemed tobacco products that are not grandfathered products, but were on the market as of 8 August 2016.
The FDA will allow such products to remain on the market so long as the manufacturer has filed the appropriate Premarket Tobacco Application PMTA by a specific deadline.
The Final Rule established staggered initial compliance periods based on the expected complexity of the applications to be submitted.
On 28 July 2017, as part of the FDAs announcement of a comprehensive regulatory plan for nicotine and tobacco, the FDA extended the deadline for submission of PMTAs for newly deemed products by several years.
PMTAs for non-combustible products, such as e-cigarettes, must be submitted by 8 August 2022.
R. J. Reynolds Vapor intends to file a PMTA with respect to Vuse.
Based on the FDAs draft guidance setting forth the type of evidence that must be included within a pre-market review application, R. J. Reynolds Vapor expects the costs of preparing a PMTA to be significant.
On 12 September 2018, FDA Commissioner Gottlieb put into question the timing that would be allowed for the filing of e-cigarette PMTAs as well as the future sale of flavoured closed system e-cigarette products.
Specifically, the FDA announced the issuance of more than 1,100 warning letters to retailers found to have sold e-cigarette products to minors as part of a government surveillance operation.
Additionally, the FDA issued letters to five manufacturers of closed system e-cigarette products, including RAI, giving the companies 60 days to offer written plans to mitigate youth usage.
RAI filed its plan with FDA on 9 November 2018.
On 15 November 2018, FDA Commissioner Gottlieb announced the results of the 2018 National Youth Tobacco Survey that showed a significant increase in the rates of youth e-cigarette use.
As a result of this data, the FDA stated that it would issue guidance limiting the sale of flavoured e-cigarette products other than tobacco, mint or menthol to age-restricted venues and, if sold online, subject such products to heightened age verification requirements.
Moreover, the FDA announced an intention to issue Notices of Proposed Rule-Making to ban menthol in cigarettes and flavours in cigars.
Comprehensive plan for tobacco and nicotine regulation On 28 July 2017, the FDA announced its intent to develop a comprehensive plan for tobacco and nicotine regulation that recognises the continuum of risk for nicotine delivery.
As part of that plan, the FDA planned to publish an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking ANPRM to seek public input regarding the potential health benefits and possible adverse effects of lowering the level of nicotine in combustible cigarettes.
The ANPRM would request comments from interested stakeholders regarding the potential impact of a nicotine product standard on, among other things: the likelihood that existing users of tobacco products will stop using cigarettes: the likelihood that those who do not use tobacco products will start using such products: and the illicit trade of cigarettes containing nicotine at levels higher than a non-addictive nicotine threshold.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 287 Additional disclosures Regulation of the Groups business continued In addition, the Center for Tobacco Products CTP, which was established within the FDA in 2009, will coordinate with the FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research regarding medicinal nicotine and other therapeutic products as part of an agency-wide nicotine framework.
As part of the comprehensive plan, the FDA also announced its intent to issue ANPRMs requesting public stakeholder input on the impact of flavours including menthol in increased initiation among youth and young adults as well as assisting adult smokers to switch to potentially less harmful forms of nicotine delivery, and the patterns of use and public health impact of premium cigars.
This follows on from the FDAs decision to issue its own preliminary scientific evaluation regarding menthol cigarettes in 2013, which concluded that menthol cigarettes adversely affect initiation, addiction and cessation compared to non-menthol cigarettes.
In 2018, the FDA took several steps to further this plan.
Firstly, in January 2018, the FDA held a public hearing to obtain input from a broad group of stakeholders on ways to streamline the regulatory process for the issuance of therapeutic claims for nicotine products.
Secondly, in March 2018, the agency issued three ANPRMs, seeking information on 1 the lowering of nicotine levels to non-addictive or minimally addictive levels, 2 the impact of flavours including menthol in increased initiation among youth and young adults as well as assisting adult smokers to switch to potentially less harmful forms of nicotine delivery, and 3 the patterns of use and public health impact of premium cigars.
Additional regulation In addition to the ANPRMs on reduced nicotine products and flavours, the FDA has submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review a proposed rule on the format and content of substantial equivalence applications.
This follows on the FDAs previous statements regarding developing foundational rules so as to provide clarity and predictability to the tobacco product submission process, including not only substantial equivalence applications but new product applications as well as MRTP applications.
Under the FSPTCA, for a manufacturer to launch a new tobacco product or modify an existing tobacco product after 22 March 2011, the manufacturer must obtain an order from the CTP allowing the new or modified product to be marketed.
Similarly, a manufacturer that introduced a product between 15 February 2007 and 22 March 2011 was required to file a substantial equivalence report with the CTP demonstrating either 1 that the new or modified product had the same characteristics as a product commercially available as at 15 February 2007, referred to as a predicate product, or 2 if the new or modified product had different characteristics than the predicate product, that it did not raise different questions of public health.
A product subject to such report is referred to as a provisional product.
A manufacturer may continue to market a provisional product unless and until the CTP issues an order that the provisional product is not substantially equivalent NSE, in which case the FDA could then require the manufacturer to remove the provisional product from the market.
Substantially, all RAI subsidiaries products currently on the market are provisional products.
At present, there is substantial uncertainty over the approaches that the FDA and CTP will take to determining RAI subsidiaries MRTP applications, PMTAs and substantial equivalence reports.
In January 2017, the FDA issued its first proposed product standard just prior to President Trumps inauguration whereby the agency would require the reduction, over a three-year period, of the levels of N-nitrosonornicotine NNN contained in smokeless tobacco products.
Since issuing this proposal, the agency has simply stated that it is evaluating submitted comments.
It is not known whether or when this proposed rule will be adopted, and, if adopted, whether the final rule will be the same as or similar to the proposed rule.
On 18 December 2017, the CTP accepted for review MRTP applications for six Camel Snus smokeless tobacco products.
In 2018, the CTP began its review of these applications which included facility inspections and a meeting on 13-14 September 2018 before the Tobacco Product Scientific Advisory Committee for its review and recommendation.
The FDA is completing its independent review of the applications with no announced deadline for the agency to complete its review.
Cigarettes and other tobacco products are subject to substantial taxes in the US.
All states and the District of Columbia currently impose cigarette excise taxes.
Certain city and county governments, such as New York, Philadelphia and Chicago, also impose substantial excise taxes on cigarettes sold in those jurisdictions.
Also, all states and the District of Columbia currently subject smokeless tobacco products to excise taxes.
Various states and the District of Columbia impose a tax on vapour products, such as e-cigarettes, and many other states have proposed taxes on vapour products.
Currently, there is no federal tax on vapour products, such as e-cigarettes.
State and local governments also consider and implement other legislation and regulation regarding the sale of tobacco products.
Measures include, among others, limiting or prohibiting the sale of flavours in tobacco products, restricting where tobacco products may be sold and increasing the minimum age to purchase tobacco products.
The Group believes that, as a responsible business, it can contribute through information, ideas and practical steps, to help regulators address the key issues regarding its products, including underage access, illicit trade, product information, product design, involuntary exposure to smoke and the development of potentially less harmful products, while maintaining a competitive market that accommodates the significant percentage of adults who choose to be tobacco consumers.
The Group is committed to working with national governments and multilateral organisations and welcomes opportunities to participate in good faith to achieve sensible and balanced regulation of traditional tobacco and potentially reduced-risk products.
288 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
