Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Impairment of financial assets Sharebased payments With effect from 1 January 2018, loss allowances for expected The Company has equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
credit losses on financial assets which are held at amortised cost Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at are recognised on the initial recognition of the underlying asset.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the Allowances in respect of loans and other receivables debtors are equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting initially recognised at an amount equal to 12-month expected period, based on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually credit losses.
Where the credit risk on the receivables has increased vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder significantly since initial recognition, allowances are measured at an returns, the fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas amount equal to the lifetime expected credit loss.
Prior to 1 January earnings per share vesting conditions are reflected in the calculation of 2018, financial assets were reviewed for impairment at each balance awards that will eventually vest over the vesting period.
sheet date, or whenever events indicated that the carrying amount might not be recoverable.
Fair value is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes option pricing model, except where vesting is dependent on market conditions when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is used.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
2 Investments in Group companies The Companys directly-owned subsidiaries are British American Tobacco 1998 Limited, B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. and BATMark Limited.
A full list of indirect subsidiaries and other undertakings as required by Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 is shown on pages 199 to 208 of the Groups financial statements.
On 17 January 2017, the Company announced that it had agreed the terms of a recommended offer with Reynolds American Inc. RAI for British American Tobaccop.
l. c. to acquire the remaining 57.8% of RAI it did not already own.
The proposed merger was accepted by both parties shareholders on 19 July 2017.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company, on behalf of its indirect subsidiary BATUS Holdings Inc BATUS, agreed to issue new shares, represented by American Depositary Shares, for the benefit of RAI shareholders.
In consideration for the Company issuing new shares, BATUS agreed to issue to the Company an assignable obligation owed by BATUS to issue shares to the holder of that obligation.
This assignable obligation was transferred down the chain of Group companies from the Company to BATUS, in exchange for the issue of shares by each subsidiary company to its direct parent.
As a consequence, on 25 July 2017, the Company transferred the assignable warrant to its direct subsidiary British American Tobacco 1998 Limited in exchange for 2,915 new shares with a nominal value of 2,915 and a total value of 23,223,433,253.
Other movements in investments are related to parental guarantees issued by the Company.
The Directors are of the opinion that the individual investments in the subsidiary undertakings have a value not less than the amount at which they are shown in the Balance Sheet.
Shareholdings at cost less provisions and other fixed asset investments 2018 2017 m m 1 January 27,898 4,446 Additions 3 23,452 31 December 27,901 27,898 @ denotes section, including accompanying text and tables, that does not form part of BATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 249
