Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments 1.
The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements 8.
Group companies generally do not settle claims.
However, Group that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
companies may enter into settlement discussions in some cases, if they believe it is in their best interests to do so.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, this general approach include, but are not limited to, actions damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, taken pursuant to offer of judgment statutes and Filter Cases, interest charges, reputational damage or other sanctions.
An offer of judgment, if rejected by the These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In cases where the plaintiff, preserves the Groups right to recover attorneys fees Group has an obligation as a result of a past event existing at the under certain statutes in the event of a verdict favourable to the balance sheet date, if it is probable that an outflow of economic Group.
Such offers are sometimes made through court-ordered resources will be required to settle the obligation and if the amount mediations.
Other settlements by Group companies include the of the obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision will be State Settlement Agreements described below, the funding by recognised based on best estimates and management judgment.
various tobacco companies of a US$5.2 billion approximately 3.
There are, however, contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, 4.1 billion trust fund contemplated by the Master Settlement taxes in some countries and guarantees for which no provisions Agreement to benefit tobacco growers, the original Broin flight have been made.
attendant case, and most of the Engle progeny cases pending in US federal court, after the initial docket of over 4,000 such cases was General Litigation Overview reduced to approximately 400 cases.
The Group believes that the 4.
There are a number of legal and regulatory actions, proceedings circumstances surrounding these claims are readily distinguishable and claims against Group companies related to tobacco products from the current categories of tobacco-related litigation claims that are pending in a number of jurisdictions.
These proceedings involving Group companies.
include, among other things, claims for personal injury both 9.
Although the Group intends to defend all pending cases vigorously, individual claims and class actions and claims for economic and believes that the Groups companies have valid bases for loss arising from the treatment of smoking and health-related appeals of adverse verdicts and valid defences to all actions, and diseases such as medical recoupment claims brought by that an outflow of resources related to any individual case is not local governments.
considered probable, litigation is subject to many uncertainties, 5.
The plaintiffs in these cases seek recovery on a variety of legal and, generally, it is not possible to predict the outcome of any theories, including negligence, strict liability in tort, design defect, particular litigation pending against Group companies, or to failure to warn, fraud, misrepresentation, violations of unfair and reasonably estimate the amount or range of any possible loss.
deceptive trade practices statutes, conspiracy, medical monitoring Furthermore, a number of political, legislative, regulatory and and violations of competition and antitrust laws.
The plaintiffs other developments relating to the tobacco industry and cigarette seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and, where smoking have received wide media attention.
These developments available, punitive damages, treble or multiple damages and may negatively affect the outcomes of tobacco-related legal actions statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and encourage the commencement of additional similar litigation.
and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, attorneys Therefore, the Group does not provide estimates of the financial fees, and injunctive and other equitable relief.
effect of the contingent liabilities represented by such litigation, as such estimates are not practicable.
Although alleged damages often are not determinable from a complaint, and the law governing the pleading and calculation of 10.
The following table lists the categories of the tobacco-related damages varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, compensatory and actions pending against Group companies as of 31 December punitive damages have been specifically pleaded in a number of 2018 and the increase or decrease from the number of cases cases, sometimes in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions pending against Group Companies as of 31 December 2017. and even hundreds of billions of pounds.
Details of the quantum of past judgments awarded against Group companies, the majority of which are under appeal, are also 7.
With the exception of the Engle progeny cases described below, the identified, along with any settlements reached during the relevant Group continues to win the majority of tobacco-related litigation period.
Given the volume and more active nature of the Engle claims that reach trial, and a very high percentage of the tobaccoprogeny cases and the Filter Cases in the US described below, and related litigation claims brought against them, including Engle the fluctuation in the number of such cases and amounts awarded progeny cases, continue to be dismissed at or before trial.
Based on from year to year, the Group presents judgment or settlement their experience in tobacco-related litigation and the strength figures for these cases on a three-year basis.
Where no quantum is of the defences available to them in such litigation, the Groups identified, either no judgment has been awarded against a Group companies believe that their successful defence of tobacco-related company, or where a verdict has been reached no quantification litigation in the past will continue in the future.
of damages has been given, or no settlement has been entered into.
Further details on the judgments, damages quantification and settlements are included within the case narratives below.
For a discussion of the non-tobacco related litigation pending against the Group, see note 28, paragraph 79, et seq.
192 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Case Numbers as at Case Numbers as at Change in Number Case Type 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 note 1 Increase Decrease US tobacco related actions Medical reimbursement cases note 2 2 2 No change Class actions note 3 20 24 4 Individual smoking and health cases note 4 111 99 12 West Virginia IPIC note 5 1 1 No change Engle progeny cases note 6 2,268 2,569 301 Broin II cases note 7 1,406 2,321 915 Filter cases note 8 58 71 13 State Settlement Agreements Enforcement and Validity note 9 3 2 1 Non-US tobacco related actions Medical reimbursement cases 19 19 No change Class actions note 10 13 14 1 Individual smoking and health cases note 11 107 120 13 Note 1 This includes cases to which the RAI group companies were a party at such date.
Note 2 This category of cases includes the Department of Justice action.
See note 28, paragraphs 20-24 and the list of Closed Litigation Matters.
Note 4 This category of cases includes smoking and health cases alleging personal injuries caused by tobacco use or exposure brought by or on behalf of individual plaintiffs based on theories of negligence, strict liability, breach of express or implied warranty and violations of state deceptive trade practices or consumer protection statutes.
The plaintiffs seek to recover compensatory damages, attorneys fees and costs and punitive damages.
Out of the 111 active individual smoking and health cases, five judgments have been returned in the plaintiffs favour, awarding damages totalling US$209.4 million approximately 164.4 million, all of which are on appeal.
For a further description of these cases, see note 28, paragraph 40.
Note 5 The West Virginia IPIC cases are a series of roughly 1,200 cases, filed in West Virginia beginning in 1999, asserting claims against PM USA, Lorillard Tobacco, RJRT, B&W and The American Tobacco Company.
These cases were brought in consolidated proceedings in West Virginia alleging personal injuries.
The one claim upon which plaintiffs prevailed was a limited failure to instruct claim covering a narrow window of time.
Only 30 plaintiffs qualified to pursue that narrow claim.
In 2017, the court dismissed all claims of those 30 plaintiffs with prejudice pursuant to an agreement providing that each plaintiff who submits a release within one year will receive US$7,000 approximately 5,496.
In addition to the foregoing claims, various plaintiffs in 1999 and 2000 asserted claims against retailers and distributors which have not been pursued in light of the result in the Phase I trial in defendants favour, as well as smokeless claims against various defendants including RJRT, Lorillard, American Snuff and B&W.
41 plaintiffs sought to pursue their smokeless claims in 2017.
In April 2017, the court dismissed the claims of those 41 smokeless plaintiffs with prejudice.
For a further discussion of the related plaintiffs claims, see note 28, paragraph 41.
Note 6 In July 1998, trial began in Engle v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. a then-certified class action filed in Circuit Court, Miami-Dade County, Florida, against US cigarette manufacturers, including RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and B&W.
In July 2000, the jury in Phase II awarded the class a total of approximately US$145 billion approximately 114 billion in punitive damages, apportioned US$36.3 billion approximately 28.5 billion to RJRT, US$17.6 billion approximately 13.8 billion to B&W, and US$16.3 billion approximately 12.8 billion to Lorillard Tobacco.
This decision was appealed and ultimately resulted in the Florida Supreme Court in December 2006 decertifying the class and allowing judgments entered for only two of the three Engle class representatives to stand and setting aside the punitive damages award.
Putative Engle class members were permitted to file individual lawsuits, deemed Engle progeny cases, against the Engle defendants, within one year of the Supreme Courts decision subsequently extended to 11 January 2008.
Between the period 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2018, 46 judgments have been returned in the plaintiffs favour, awarding damages totalling approximately US$341.7 million approximately 268.3 million.
Certain of these judgments have been appealed by RJRT and in certain other cases, RJRT still had time to appeal, as of 31 December 2018.
For a further description of the Engle progeny cases, see note 28, paragraphs 30-39.
Note 7 Broin v Philip Morris, Inc. was a class action filed in Circuit Court in Miami-Dade County, Florida in 1991 and brought on behalf of flight attendants alleged to have suffered from diseases or ailments caused by exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke ETS in airplane cabins.
Group companies and other cigarette manufacturer defendants settled Broin, agreeing to pay a total of US$300 million approximately 236 million to fund research on the detection and cure of tobaccorelated diseases and US$49 million approximately 38.5 million in plaintiffs counsels fees and expenses.
Group companies share of these payments totalled US$223 million approximately 175 million.
Broin II cases refer to individual cases by class members.
There have been no Broin II trials since 2007.
For a further description of the Broin II cases, see note 28, paragraph 41.
Note 8 Includes claims brought against Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard by individuals who seek damages resulting from their alleged exposure to asbestos fibres that were incorporated into filter material used in one brand of cigarettes manufactured by a predecessor to Lorillard Tobacco for a limited period of time ending more than 50 years ago.
Since 1 January 2016, Lorillard Tobacco and RJRT have paid, or have reached agreement to pay, a total of approximately US$30.2 million approximately 23.7 million in settlements to resolve 137 Filter Cases.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 193 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Note 9 Group companies expenses and payments under the State c. Settlement refers to certain types of cases in which cigarette Settlement Agreements for 2018 amounted to US$2,741 million manufacturers, including RJRT, B&W and Lorillard Tobacco, approximately 2,152 million in respect of settlement expenses and have agreed to resolve disputes with certain plaintiffs without US$917 million approximately 720 million in respect of settlement resolving the cases through trial.
The pending cases referred d. All sums set out in this note 28 have been converted to GBP to above relate to the enforcement, validity or interpretation of the and US$ using the following end closing rates as at December State Settlement Agreements in which RJR Tobacco, B&W or Lorillard 2018: GBP 1 to US$ 1.273600, GBP 1 to CAD$1.739480, GBP Tobacco is a party.
1 to EURO 1.1141192, GBP 1 to BRL 4.93616, GBP 1 to AOA Note 10 Outside the United States, there are 13 class actions 393.04188, GBP 1 to NGN 462.9536, GBP 1 to KRW 1421.08 being brought against Group companies excluding one class and GBP 1 to HRK 8.25382, and GBP 1 to JPY 139.73302. action in Brazil that is included in the medical reimbursement US Litigation category as of 31 December 2018.
These include class actions in 12.
Group companies, notably R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company the following jurisdictions: Brazil 1, Canada 11 and Venezuela RJRT individually and as successor by merger to Lorillard 1.
For a description of the Group companies class actions, see Tobacco Company Lorillard Tobacco and Brown & Williamson note 28, paragraphs 65-77.
Pursuant to the judgment in 2015 in Holdings, Inc. formerly Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation the two Quebec class actions, the plaintiffs were awarded damages B&W as well as other leading cigarette manufacturers, are and interest in the amount of CAD$15.6 billion approximately defendants in a number of product liability cases.
In a number of 8.9 billion or US$11.4 billion, of which the Group companies share these cases, the amounts of compensatory and punitive damages is CAD$10.4 billion approximately 5.9 billion or US$7.6 billion.
The class actions are currently under appeal.
For a further description of the Quebec class actions, see note 28, paragraph 72.
The total number of US tobacco product liability cases pending at 31 December 2018 involving RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and or Note 11 As at 31 December 2018, the jurisdictions with the most B&W was approximately 3,900.
As at 31 December 2018, British active individual cases against Group companies were, in descending American Tobacco Investments Limited Investments has order: Brazil 56, Italy 25, Chile 10, Canada 5, Argentina 5 and been served as a co-defendant in one of those cases 2017:1.
There were a further four jurisdictions with one active case No other UK-based Group company has been served as a coonly.
Out of these 107 cases, in 2018, 2 judgments have been returned defendant in any US tobacco product liability case pending as at in the plaintiffs favour as of 31 December 2018, one case in Brazil 31 December 2018. awarding damages totalling R$ 637,500 approximately 129,149 or US$ $164,484 and one case in Italy awarding damages totalling 14.
Since many of these pending cases seek unspecified damages, it 789,970, approximately 709,054 or US$903,051, both of which is not possible to quantify the total amounts being claimed, but are currently on appeal.
the aggregate amounts involved in such litigation are significant, possibly totalling billions of US dollars.
Certain terms and phrases used in this note 28 may require broad categories: medical reimbursement cases: class actions: some explanation.
individual cases and other claims.
Judgment or final judgment refers to the final decision of 15.
RJRT individually and as successor by merger to Lorillard Tobacco, the court resolving the dispute and determining the rights and American Snuff Co. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. obligations of the parties.
At the trial court level, for example, SFNTC, R. J. Reynolds Vapor Company RJR Vapor, RAI, a final judgment generally is entered by the court after a jury Lorillard, other RAI affiliates and indemnitees, including but not verdict and after post-verdict motions have been decided.
limited to B&W collectively, the Reynolds Defendants, believe In most cases, the losing party can appeal a verdict only after a that they have valid defences to the tobacco-related litigation final judgment has been entered by the trial court.
claims against them, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse b.
Damages refers to the amount of money sought by a verdicts against them.
The Reynolds Defendants have, through plaintiff in a complaint, or awarded to a party by a jury or, their counsel, filed pleadings and memoranda in pending tobaccoin some cases, by a judge.
Compensatory damages are related litigation that set forth and discuss a number of grounds awarded to compensate the prevailing party for actual losses and defences that they and their counsel believe have a valid basis suffered, if liability is proved.
In cases in which there is a finding in law and fact.
that a defendant has acted wilfully, maliciously or fraudulently, 16.
Trial schedules are subject to change, and generally based on a higher burden of proof than is required many cases are dismissed before trial.
In the US, there are 34 for a finding of liability for compensatory damages, a plaintiff cases, exclusive of Engle progeny cases, scheduled for trial as of also may be awarded punitive damages.
Although damages 31 December 2018 through 31 December 2019, for the Reynolds may be awarded at the trial court stage, a losing party may Defendants: 12 individual smoking and health cases, 20 Filter be protected from paying any damages until all appellate Cases and one other non-smoking and health case.
There are also avenues have been exhausted by posting a supersedeas approximately 135 Engle progeny cases against RJRT individually bond.
The amount of such a bond is governed by the law of and as successor to Lorillard Tobacco and B&W for trial through the relevant jurisdiction and generally is set at the amount of 31 December 2019.
It is not known how many of these cases will damages plus some measure of statutory interest, modified at actually be tried.
the discretion of the appropriate court or subject to limits set by a court or statute.
194 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 17.
The non-jury trial of the RICO portion of the claim began on 117individual smoking and health, Engle progeny, Filter and 21 September 2004, and ended on 9 June 2005.
On 17 August health-care cost recovery cases in which the Reynolds Defendants 2006, the federal district court issued its Final Judgment and were defendants were tried, including 13 trials for cases where Remedial Order, which found certain defendants, including RJRT, mistrials were declared in the original proceedings.
Verdicts in B&W, Lorillard Tobacco and Investments, had violated RICO, favour of the Reynolds Defendants and, in some cases, other but did not impose any direct financial penalties.
The district defendants, were returned in 29 cases, tried in Florida 27, court instead enjoined the defendants from committing future California 1 and New Jersey 1.
There were also 26 mistrials in racketeering acts, participating in certain trade organisations, Florida.
Verdicts in favour of the plaintiffs were returned in 50 cases, making misrepresentations concerning smoking and health and tried in Florida 47, the U. S. Virgin Islands 2, and Massachusetts youth marketing, and using certain brand descriptors such as low 1.
Five cases in Florida were dismissed during trial.
Two cases tar, light, ultra-light, mild and natural.
The district court were continued during trial.
Four cases were punitive damages also ordered the defendants to issue corrective communications retrials and one case was resolved during trial.
on five subjects, including smoking and health and addiction, and to comply with further undertakings, including maintaining web a Medical Reimbursement Cases sites of historical corporate documents and disseminating certain 18.
These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by government marketing information on a confidential basis to the government.
entities and other third-party providers on healthcare and welfare In addition, the district court placed restrictions on the defendants costs claimed to result from illnesses associated with smoking.
ability to dispose of certain assets for use in the United States, unless the transferee agrees to abide by the terms of the district 19.
At 31 December 2018, one US medical reimbursement suit courts order, and ordered certain defendants to reimburse the US Crow Creek Sioux Tribe v American Tobacco Co. was pending Department of Justice its taxable costs incurred in connection with against RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and B&W in a Native American the case.
tribal court in South Dakota.
The plaintiffs seek to recover actual and punitive damages, restitution, funding of a clinical cessation 23.
Defendants, including RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, B&W and programme, funding of a corrective public education programme, Investments, appealed, and the US government cross-appealed and disgorgement of unjust profits from sales to minors.
No other to the DC Circuit.
On 22 May 2009, the DC Circuit affirmed the medical reimbursement suits are pending against these companies federal district courts RICO liability judgment, but vacated the by county or other political subdivisions of the states.
order and remanded for further factual findings and clarification as to whether liability should be imposed against B&W, based on US Department of Justice Action changes in the nature of B&Ws business operations including the 20.
On 22 September 1999, the US Department of Justice brought an extent of B&Ws control over tobacco operations.
The court also action in the US District Court for the District of Columbia against remanded on three other discrete issues relating to the injunctive various industry members, including RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, remedies, including for the district court to reformulate the B&W, B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. Industries and Investments injunction on the use of low-tar descriptors to exempt foreign United States v Philip Morris USA Inc..
The US Department of activities that have no substantial, direct, and foreseeable domestic Justice initially sought 1 recovery of federal funds expended effects, and for the district court to evaluate whether corrective in providing health care to smokers who developed alleged communications could be required at point-of-sale displays which smoking-related diseases pursuant to the Medical Care Recovery requirement the DC Circuit vacated.
On 28 June 2010, the US Act and Medicare Secondary Payer provisions of the Social Supreme Court denied the parties petitions for further review.
Security Act and 2 equitable relief under the civil provisions of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO, 24.
On 22 December 2010, the district court dismissed B&W from including disgorgement of roughly US$280 billion approximately the litigation.
In November 2012, the trial court entered an order 220 billion in profits the government contended were earned setting forth the text of the corrective statements and directed as a consequence of a purported racketeering enterprise along the parties to engage in discussions with the Special Master to with certain corrective communications.
In September 2000, the implement them.
After various proceedings and appeals, the district court dismissed the governments Medical Care Recovery federal district court in October 2017 ordered RJRT and the Act and Medicare Secondary Payer claims.
In February 2005, the other US tobacco company defendants to fund the publishing of US Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit the DC Circuit ruled compelled public statements in various US media outlets, including that disgorgement was not an available remedy.
in newspapers, and on television, the companies websites and cigarette packaging.
The compelled public statements began 21.
Industries was dismissed for lack of personal jurisdiction on appearing in US newspapers on 24 November 2017 and ran 28 September 2000.
In addition, Investments was a defendant at serially over four months: they began appearing on national US the trial, but intervening changes in controlling law post-trial led to broadcast television networks on 27 November 2017 and ran a 28 March 2011 court ruling that the courts Final Judgment and several times per week for one year.
The statements also began Remedial Order no longer applied to Investments prospectively, appearing on RJRT websites on 18 June 2018 and first appeared and for this reason, Investments would not have to comply with on package onserts beginning in November 2018 the onserts will any of the remaining injunctive remedies being sought by the be distributed periodically through mid-2020.
As the government did not appeal the 28 March is considering mandating the display of the compelled public 2011 ruling, this means that Investments is no longer in the case statements at retail point of sale: briefing on that issue concluded and is not subject to any injunctive relief that the court is expected on 14 September 2018. to order against the remaining defendants.
As the case continued as against RJRT and Lorillard Tobacco with respect to injunctive relief and related matters, the following is noted.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 195 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued b Class Actions 29.
Young v. American Tobacco Co. Inc. is a case filed in November 1997 in the Circuit Court, Orleans Parish, Louisiana against various 25.
At 31 December 2018, RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and B&W were US cigarette manufacturers, including RJRT and B&W, and parent named as a defendant in two separate actions attempting to assert companies of such manufacturers.
This putative ETS class action claims on behalf of classes of persons allegedly injured or financially was brought on behalf of a putative class of Louisiana residents impacted by their smoking, and SFNTC was named in 18 separate who, though not themselves cigarette smokers, have been cases relating to the use of the words natural, additive-free.
or exposed to second-hand smoke from cigarettes manufactured by organic in Natural American Spirit advertising and promotional the defendants, and who allegedly suffered injury as a result of materials.
If the classes are or remain certified, separate trials may that exposure, and seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory be needed to assess individual plaintiffs damages.
Among the and punitive damages.
In March 2016, the court entered an order pending class actions, 19 specified the amount of the claim in staying the case, including all discovery, pending the completion of the complaint, including 18 that alleged that the plaintiffs were an ongoing smoking cessation programme ordered by the court in seeking in excess of US$5,000,000 approximately 3,900,000 a now concluded Louisiana state court certified class action, Scott v. and one that alleged that the plaintiffs were seeking less than American Tobacco Co. US$75,000 approximately 59,000 per class member plus unspecified punitive damages.
Engle Class Action and Engle Progeny Cases Florida 30.
In July 1998, trial began in Engle v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. No Additive Natural Organic Claim Cases a then-certified class action filed in Circuit Court, Miami-Dade 26.
A total of 17 putative class actions have been filed in nine US County, Florida, against US cigarette manufacturers, including federal district courts against SFNTC, a subsidiary of RAI, which RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and B&W.
The then-certified class consisted cases generally allege, in various combinations, violations of of Florida citizens and residents, and their survivors, who suffered state deceptive and unfair trade practice statutes, and claim state from smoking-related diseases that first manifested between common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and unjust 5 May 1990, and 21 November 1996, and were caused by an enrichment based on the use of descriptors such as natural, addiction to cigarettes.
In July 1999, the jury in this Phase I found organic and 100% additive-free in the marketing, labelling, against RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, B&W and the other defendants advertising, and promotion of SFNTCs Natural American Spirit on common issues relating to the defendants conduct, general brand cigarettes.
In these actions, the plaintiffs allege that the causation, the addictiveness of cigarettes, and entitlement to use of these terms suggests that Natural American Spirit brand punitive damages.
cigarettes are less harmful than other cigarettes and, for that reason, violated state consumer protection statutes or amounted to 31.
In July 2000, the jury in Phase II awarded the class a total of fraud or a negligent or intentional misrepresentation.
The actions approximately US$145 billion approximately 114 billion in seek various categories of recovery, including economic damages, punitive damages, apportioned US$36.3 billion approximately injunctive relief including medical monitoring and cessation 28.5 billion to RJRT, US$17.6 billion approximately 13.8 billion programmes, interest, restitution, disgorgement, treble and to B&W, and US$16.3 billion approximately 12.8 billion to punitive damages, and attorneys fees and costs.
The three class representatives in the Engle class in response to a motion by the various plaintiffs, the US Judicial action were awarded US$12.7 million approximately 10 million Panel on Multidistrict Litigation JPML consolidated these in compensatory damages.
cases for pre-trial purposes before a federal court in New Mexico.
This decision was appealed and ultimately resulted in the Florida That court heard argument on defendants motion to dismiss the Supreme Court in December 2006 decertifying the class and current consolidated complaint on 9 June 2017.
On 21 December allowing judgments entered for only two of the three Engle 2017, the district court granted the motion in part, dismissing class representatives to stand and setting aside the punitive a number of claims with prejudice, and denied it in part.
The court preserved certain of the jurys Previously established deadlines for class certification briefing and a Phase I findings, including that cigarettes can cause certain class certification hearing have been suspended pending resolution diseases, nicotine is addictive, and defendants placed defective of disputes concerning discovery.
cigarettes on the market, breached duties of care, concealed 27.
On 7 November 2016, a public health advocacy organisation filed health-related information and conspired.
Putative Engle class a putative class action Breathe DC v Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co. members were permitted to file individual lawsuits, deemed Inc. in Superior Court for the District of Columbia Washington, Engle progeny cases, against the Engle defendants, within one D. C. against SFNTC, RAI and RJRT based on allegations relating year of the Supreme Courts decision subsequently extended to to the labelling, advertising and promotional materials for SFNTCs 11 January 2008.
Natural American Spirit brand cigarettes, which allegations are 33.
During 2015, RJRT and Lorillard Tobacco, together with similar to the allegations in the actions consolidated for pre-trial Philip Morris USA Inc. PM USA, settled virtually all of the purposes in the transferee court described immediately above.
Engle progeny cases then pending against them in federal The complaint sought injunctive and other non-monetary relief but district court.
The total amount of the settlement was did not seek monetary damages.
On 14 December 2018, the case US$100 million approximately 78.5 million divided as was settled, and it was dismissed by stipulation in January 2019. follows: RJRTUS$42.5 million approximately 33.3 million : Other Putative Class Actions PM USAUS$42.5 million approximately 33.3 million : and 28.
Jones v. American Tobacco Co. Inc. is a putative class action filed Lorillard TobaccoUS$15 million approximately 11.8 million.
in December 1998 in the Circuit Court, Jackson County, Missouri.
The settlement covered more than 400 federal Engle progeny cases The action was brought by a plaintiff on behalf of a putative class but did not cover 12 federal progeny cases previously tried to of Missouri tobacco product users and purchasers against various verdict and then pending on post-trial motions or appeal: and two defendants, including RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and B&W, alleging federal progeny cases filed by different lawyers from the ones who that the plaintiffs use of the defendants tobacco products has negotiated the settlement for the plaintiffs.
caused them to become addicted to nicotine, and seeking an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages.
There is currently no activity in this case.
196 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 34.
As at 31 December 2018, there were approximately 2,268 Engle progeny cases pending in which RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and or B&W have been named as defendants and served.
These cases include claims by or on behalf of 2,841 plaintiffs.
In addition, as 31 December 2018, RJRT was aware of nine additional Engle progeny cases that have been filed but not served.
The number of pending cases fluctuates for a variety of reasons, including voluntary and involuntary dismissals.
Voluntary dismissals include cases in which a plaintiff accepts an offer of judgment, from RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and or RJRTs affiliates and indemnitees.
An offer of judgment, if rejected by the plaintiff, preserves RJRTs and Lorillard Tobaccos right to recover attorneys fees under Florida law in the event of a verdict favourable to RJRT or Lorillard Tobacco, or affiliates of such entities.
Such offers are sometimes made through court-ordered mediations.
109 Engle progeny cases have been tried in Florida state and federal courts against RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and or B&W since the beginning of2016 through 31 December 2018, and additional state court trials are scheduled for 2019.
The following chart identifies the number of trials in Engle progeny cases as at 31 December 2018 and additional information about the adverse judgments entered: Phase three trials verdicts judgments of individual Engle progeny cases 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018: Total number of trials 109 Number of trials resulting in plaintiffs verdicts 46 Total damages awarded in final judgments against RJRT US$341,698,989 approximately 270 million Amount of overall damages comprising compensatory damages approximately US$159,145,914 of overall US$341,698,989 approximately 125 million of 268 million Amount of overall damages comprising punitive damages approximately US$182,553,075 of overall US$341,698,989 approximately 143 million of 268 million Of the 46 trials resulting in plaintiffs verdicts 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018: Number of adverse judgments appealed by RJRT 38 note 12 Number of adverse judgments not yet appealed, in which RJRT still has time to file an appeal 3 note 13 Number of adverse judgments in which no appeal was, and can no longer be, sought 5 Appeals of individual Engle progeny cases 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018: Number of adverse judgments appealed by RJRT 45 note 14 Note 12: Of the 38 adverse judgments appealed by RJRT as a result of judgments arising in the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018: a.
20 appeals remain undecided in the District Courts of Appeal, two additional cases were affirmed, but the time for filing a post-opinion motion is pending so they are not final, there is one case that was reversed for reinstatement of full compensatory amount, but the time for filing a post-opinion motion is pending so it is not final, and there is one case that was reversed to reduce the compensatory damages amount by the comparative fault found by the jury, but the time for filing a post-opinion motion is pending so it is not final: and b.
14 were decided and or closed.
Of these 14 appeals, 12 were affirmed in favour of the plaintiff further review of the U. S. Supreme Court remains pending in 3, 1 is pending review of the U. S. Supreme Court, 1 is pending review of the Florida Supreme Court, 1 was reversed for new trial, however the judgments were paid, 1 in which there was an appeal of the judgment which was subsequently dismissed.
The total damages award may vary depending on the outcome of the pending appeals.
Note 13: One case Bessent-Dixon is not included as the case proceeded to a new punitive-only trial, while the compensatory judgment was stayed.
RJRT still has time to file an appeal.
Note 14: Of the 45 adverse judgments appealed by RJRT: a.
20 appeals remain undecided in the District Courts of Appeal, two additional cases were affirmed, but the time for filing a post-opinion motion is pending so they are not final, there is one case that was reversed for reinstatement of full compensatory amount, but the time for filing a post opinion motion is pending so it is not final, and there is one case that was reversed to reduce the compensatory damages amount by the comparative fault found by the jury, but the time for filing a post-opinion motion is pending so it is not final: b.
21 were decided and or closed in the District Courts of Appeal.
Of these 21 appeals, 15 were affirmed in favour of plaintiff review of Florida Supreme Court sought in one case, review of the US Supreme Court has been sought in one case, and further review of the US Supreme Court remains pending in three cases.
One had the liability findings affirmed but was reversed for reinstatement of full compensatory damages amount, however the judgment was paid, one was affirmed as to compensatory damages, but reversed for Plaintiff to seek punitive damages on negligence and strict liability claims, one was reversed for new trial, however the judgments were paid, two in which there was an appeal of the judgment which was subsequently dismissed and the judgment paid, and one was affirmed on compensatory damages but reversed on punitive damages and on retrial, a directed verdict was entered in favour of RJRT on punitive damages.
RJRT has paid damages to plaintiffs in five cases that were not appealed that are now closed.
The total damages award may vary depending on the outcome of the pending appeals: and c. Includes appeals of six adverse judgements rendered prior to 1 January 2016 that were appealed by RJRT in the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
By statute, Florida applies a US$200 million approximately 157 million bond cap to all Engle progeny cases in the aggregate.
Individual bond caps for any given Engle progeny case vary depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time.
Judicial attempts by several plaintiffs in the Engle progeny cases to challenge the bond cap as violating the Florida Constitution have failed.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 197 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued In addition, bills have been introduced in sessions of the Florida legislature that would eliminate the Engle progeny bond cap, but those bills have not been enacted as of 31 December 2018.
In 2018, RJRT or Lorillard Tobacco has paid judgments in 33 Engle progeny cases.
Those payments totalled US$333 million approximately 261 million in compensatory or punitive damages.
Additional costs were paid in respect of attorneys fees and statutory interest.
In addition, accruals for damages and attorneys fees and statutory interest for 8 cases Starr-Blundell v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Odom v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Nally v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Johnston v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Searcy v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Fox v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Lima v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co and Pardue v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. were recorded in RAIs consolidated balance sheet as of 31 December 2018 to the value of US$104,902,981.61 approximately 82,367,291. c Individual Cases 40.
As of 31 December 2018, 111 individual cases were pending in the United States against RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and or B&W.
This category of cases includes smoking and health cases alleging personal injuries caused by tobacco use or exposure brought by or on behalf of individual plaintiffs based on theories of negligence, strict liability, breach of express or implied warranty, and violations of state deceptive trade practices or consumer protection statutes.
The plaintiffs seek to recover compensatory damages, attorneys fees and costs, and punitive damages.
The category does not include the West Virginia personal injury cases West Virginia IPIC cases, Engle progeny cases, Broin II cases, and Filter Cases discussed above and below.
One of the individual cases is brought by or on behalf of an individual or his her survivors alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to ETS.
The following chart identifies the number of individual cases pending as of 31 December 2018 as against the number pending as of 31 December 2017, along with the number of West Virginia IPIC cases, Engle progeny cases, Broin II cases, and Filter Cases, which are discussed further below.
US Case Numbers US Case Numbers Change in Number Case Type 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Increase Decrease US tobacco related actions Individual Smoking and Health Cases note 15 111 99 12 West Virginia IPIC Number of Plaintiffs note 16 1 1 1 564 No change 563 Engle Progeny Cases Number of Plaintiffs note 17 2,268 2,841 2,569 3,276 301 435 Broin II Cases note 18 1,406 2,321 915 Filter Cases note 19 58 71 13 Note 15 Out of the 111 pending individual smoking and health cases, five have received adverse verdicts in the court of first instance or on appeal, and the total amount of those verdicts is US$209.4 million approximately 164.4 million.
Note 16 The West Virginia IPIC cases are a series of roughly 1,200 cases, filed in West Virginia beginning in 1999, asserting claims against PM USA, Lorillard Tobacco, RJRT, B&W and The American Tobacco Company.
These cases were brought in consolidated proceedings in West Virginia alleging personal injuries, where the first phase of the trial began on 15 April 2013 and on 15 May 2013 the jury returned a verdict for defendants on all but one of plaintiffs claims the verdict was affirmed on appeal.
In 2017, those 30 plaintiffs agreed to resolve their claims for US$7,000 approximately 5,496 per case.
All of those failure to instruct claims have been dismissed with prejudice, with the agreement that each plaintiff who submits a release within one year will receive the agreed payment of US$7,000 approximately 5,496 from either PM USA or RJRT, as appropriate.
Three of the 30 plaintiffs have submitted releases to date.
In addition to the foregoing failure to instruct claims, various plaintiffs in 1999 and 2000 asserted claims against retailers and distributors which have not been pursued in light of the result in the Phase I trial in defendants favour, as well as smokeless claims against various defendants including RJRT, Lorillard, American Snuff and B&W.
In 2017, 41 plaintiffs were permitted to pursue their smokeless claims over defendants objections.
On 27 April 2018, the court dismissed the claims of those 41 plaintiffs with prejudice.
In the final weeks of the case in the trial court, one plaintiff sought to pursue a roll-your own claim that had long been dormant.
The trial court denied that request and that one plaintiff appealed to the West Virginia Supreme Court on 8 May 2018.
That appeal has been fully briefed and is awaiting decision.
Note 17 The number of Engle progeny cases will fluctuate as cases are dismissed or if any of the dismissed cases are appealed.
Please see earlier table in paragraph 36.
Note 18 Broin v Philip Morris, Inc. was a class action filed in Circuit Court in Miami-Dade County, Florida in 1991 and brought on behalf of flight attendants alleged to have suffered from diseases or ailments caused by exposure to ETS in airplane cabins.
In October 1997, RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, B&W and other cigarette manufacturer defendants settled Broin, agreeing to pay a total of US$300 million approximately 236 million in three annual US$100 million approximately 79 million instalments, allocated among the companies by market share, to fund research on the early detection and cure of diseases associated with tobacco smoke.
It also required those companies to pay a total of US$49 million approximately 38.5 million for the plaintiffs counsels fees and expenses.
RJRTs portion of these payments was approximately US$86 million approximately 68 million : Lorillard Tobaccos was approximately US$57 million approximately 45 million : and B&Ws was approximately US$31 million approximately 24.3 million.
The settlement agreement, among other things, limits the types of claims class members may bring and eliminates claims for punitive damages.
The settlement agreement also provides that, in individual cases by class members that are referred to as Broin II lawsuits, the defendants will bear the burden of proof with respect to whether ETS can cause certain specifically enumerated diseases, referred to as general causation.
With respect to all other liability issues, including whether an individual plaintiffs disease was caused by his or her exposure to ETS in airplane cabins, referred to as specific causation, individual plaintiffs will bear the burden of proof.
On 7 September 1999, the Florida Supreme Court approved the settlement.
There have been periodic efforts to activate cases and the Group expects this to continue over time.
198 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Note 19 Includes claims brought against Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard by individuals who seek damages resulting from their alleged exposure to asbestos fibres that were incorporated into filter material used in one brand of cigarettes manufactured by a predecessor to Lorillard Tobacco for a limited period of time ending more than 50 years ago.
Pursuant to the terms of a 1952 agreement between P. Lorillard Company and H&V Specialties Co. Inc. the manufacturer of the filter material, Lorillard Tobacco is required to indemnify Hollingsworth & Vose for legal fees, expenses, judgments and resolutions in cases and claims alleging injury from finished products sold by P. Lorillard Company that contained the filter material.
As of 31 December 2018, Lorillard Tobacco and or Lorillard was a defendant in 58 Filter cases.
Since 1 January 2016, Lorillard Tobacco and RJRT have paid, or have reached agreement to pay, a total of approximately US$30.2 million approximately 24 million in settlements to resolve 137 Filter Cases.
In November 1998, the major US cigarette manufacturers, including RJRT, B&W and Lorillard Tobacco, entered into the Master Settlement Agreement MSA with attorneys general representing 46 US states, the District of Columbia and certain US territories and possessions.
These cigarette manufacturers previously settled four other cases, brought on behalf of Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota, by separate agreements with each state collectively and with the MSA, the State Settlement Agreements.
These State Settlement Agreements settled all health-care cost recovery actions brought by, or on behalf of, the settling jurisdictions: released the defending major US cigarette manufacturers from various additional present and potential future claims: imposed future payment obligations in perpetuity on RJRT, B&W, Lorillard Tobacco and other major US cigarette manufacturers: and placed significant restrictions on their ability to market and sell cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products.
In accordance with the MSA, various tobacco companies agreed to fund a US$5.2 billion approximately 5 billion trust fund to be used to address the possible adverse economic impact of the MSA on tobacco growers.
RJRT and SFNTC are subject to the substantial payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements.
Payments under the Sta te Settlement Agreements are subject to various adjustments for, among other things, the volume of cigarettes sold, relative market share, operating profit and inflation.
RAIs operating subsidiaries expenses and payments under the State Settlement Agreements for 2016, 2017, 2018 and the projected expenses and payments for 2019 onwards are set forth below in millions of US dollars : 2016 2017 2018 2019 and thereafter Settlement expenses $2,727 $2,856 $2,741 Settlement cash payments $3,042 $4,612 $917 Projected settlement expenses $ 2,800 Projected settlement cash payments $ 2,800 Subject to adjustments for changes in sales volume, inflation, operating profit and other factors.
Payments are allocated among the companies on the basis of relative market share or other methods.
The State Settlement Agreements have materially adversely affected RJRTs shipment volumes.
RAI believes that these settlement obligations may materially adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows or financial position of RAI and RJRT in future periods.
The degree of the adverse impact will depend, among other things, on the rate of decline in US cigarette sales in the premium and value categories, RJRTs share of the domestic premium and value cigarette categories, and the effect of any resulting cost advantage of manufacturers not subject to the State Settlement Agreements.
In addition, the MSA includes an adjustment that potentially reduces the annual payment obligations of RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and the other signatories to the MSA, known as Participating Manufacturers PMs.
Certain requirements, collectively referred to as the Adjustment Requirements, must be satisfied before the Non-Participating Manufacturers NPM Adjustment for a given year is available: i an Independent Auditor must determine that the PMs have experienced a market share loss, beyond a triggering threshold, to those manufacturers that do not participate in the MSA such non-participating manufacturers being referred to as NPMs : and ii in a binding arbitration proceeding, a firm of independent economic consultants must find that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the loss of market share.
This finding is known as a significant factor determination.
When the Adjustment Requirements are satisfied, the MSA provides that the NPM Adjustment applies to reduce the annual payment obligation of the PMs.
However, an individual settling state may avoid its share of the NPM Adjustment if it had in place and diligently enforced during the entirety of the relevant year a Qualifying Statute that imposes escrow obligations on NPMs that are comparable to what the NPMs would have owed if they had joined the MSA.
In such event, the states share of the NPM Adjustment is reallocated to other settling states, if any, that did not have in place and diligently enforce a Qualifying Statute.
RJRT and Lorillard Tobacco are or were involved in NPM Adjustment proceedings concerning the years 2003 to 2017.
In 2012, RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, and SFNTC entered into an agreement the Term Sheet with certain settling states that resolved accrued and potential NPM adjustments for the years 2003 through 2012 and, as a result, RJRT and SFNTC collectively received, or are to receive, more than US$1.1 billion approximately 863 million in credits that, in substantial part, were applied to MSA payments in 2014 through 2017.
After an arbitration panel ruled in September 2013 that six states had not diligently enforced their qualifying statutes in the year 2003, additional states joined the Term Sheet.
RJRT executed the NPM Adjustment Settlement Agreement on 25 September 2017 which incorporated the Term Sheet.
Since the NPM Adjustment Settlement Agreement was executed, an additional 10 states have joined.
NPM proceedings are ongoing and could result in further reductions of the companies MSA-related payments.
On 18 January 2017, the State of Florida filed a motion to join Imperial Tobacco Group, PLC ITG as a defendant and to enforce the Florida State Settlement Agreement, which motion seeks payment under the Florida State Settlement Agreement of approximately US$45 million approximately 35.3 million with respect to the four brands Winston, Salem, Kool and Maverick that were sold to ITG in the divestiture of certain assets, on 12 June 2015, by subsidiaries or affiliates of RAI and Lorillard, together with the transfer of certain employees and certain liabilities, to a wholly owned subsidiary of Imperial Brands plc the Divestiture, referred to as the Acquired Brands.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 199 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued The motion also claims future annual losses of approximately 51.
On 17 February 2017, ITG filed an action in the Court of Chancery US$30 million approximately 23.6 million absent the courts of the State of Delaware seeking declaratory relief and a motion for enforcement of the Florida State Settlement Agreement.
a temporary restraining order against RAI and RJR Tobacco.
In its The States motion sought, among other things, an order declaring complaint, ITG asked the court to declare various matters related that RJR Tobacco and ITG are in breach of the Florida Settlement to its rights and obligations under the asset purchase agreement Agreement and are required, jointly and severally, to make and related documents relating to the Divestiture.
ITG sought annual payments to the State under the Florida State Settlement an injunction barring RAI and or RJR Tobacco from alleging in Agreement with respect to the Acquired Brands.
In addition, on the Florida enforcement litigation that ITG had breached the 18 January 2017, PM USA filed a motion to enforce the Florida asset purchase agreement and requiring these companies to State Settlement Agreement, asserting among other things that litigate issues under the asset purchase agreement in Delaware.
RJR Tobacco and ITG breached that agreement by failing to make Following a hearing on ITGs complaint and motion on 1 March settlement payments as to the Acquired Brands, which PM USA 2017, the Delaware court entered a temporary restraining order asserts has improperly shifted settlement payment obligations that enjoined RAI and RJR Tobacco from taking offensive action to PM USA.
On 27 January 2017, RJR Tobacco sought leave to to assert claims against ITG Brands in the Florida enforcement file a supplemental pleading for breach by ITG of its obligations action, but the order does not prevent RJR Tobacco from making regarding joinder into the Florida State Settlement Agreement.
arguments in response to claims asserted by the State of Florida, The Florida court, on 30 March 2017, ruled that ITG should be PM USA or ITG in the Florida enforcement litigation.
On 24 March joined into the enforcement action.
2017, RAI and RJR Tobacco answered the ITG complaint and filed a motion to stay proceedings in Delaware pending the outcome 50.
After a bench trial, the court entered an order holding that RJR of the Florida enforcement litigation, which motion was denied Tobacco not ITG is liable for annual settlement payments for 18 May 2017.
Cross motions for partial judgment on the pleadings the Acquired Brands, finding that ITG did not assume liability for were filed focusing on whether ITGs obligation to use reasonable annual settlement payments under the terms of the asset purchase best efforts to join the Florida State Settlement Agreement agreement relating to the Divestiture and RJR Tobacco remained continued after the 12 June 2015 closing.
On 30 November 2017, liable for payments under the Florida State Settlement Agreement following argument, the Delaware court ruled in favour of RJR as to the Acquired Brands.
On 23 January 2018, RJR Tobacco Tobacco, holding that ITGs obligation to use its reasonable best filed a notice of appeal, and on 25 January 2018, RJR Tobacco efforts to join the Florida Settlement Agreement did not terminate filed an amended notice of appeal, and PM USA filed a notice due to the closing of the asset purchase agreement relating to the of appeal as to the courts ruling as to ITG.
On 4 January 2019, RJR Tobacco filed a motion for the State moved for recovery of its attorneys fees and costs from partial judgment on the pleadings seeking to resolve two contractRJR Tobacco.
The State and PM USA filed a joint motion for the interpretation questions under the asset purchase agreement: entry of final judgment on 1 February 2018.
The Court declined first, to the extent RJR Tobacco is held liable for any settlement to enter a final judgment until after resolution of the dispute payments based on post-closing sales of the Acquired Brands, between RJR Tobacco and PM USA regarding PM USAs assertion ITG assumed this liability, and second, that the asset purchase that settlement payment obligations have been improperly agreement does not entitle ITG to a unique protection from an shifted to PM USA.
On 15 August 2018, the Court entered a Final equity-fee law that does not yet exist in a Previously Settled State.
As a result of the Courts Final Judgment, PM USAs challenge to RJR Tobaccos accounting assumptions 52.
On 26 March 2018, the State of Minnesota filed a motion related to the Acquired Brands was rendered moot, subject to against RJR Tobacco to enforce the Minnesota State Settlement reinstatement if ITG joins the Florida State Settlement Agreement Agreement, which motion seeks payments under the Minnesota or if judgment is reversed.
On 29 August 2018, RJR Tobacco filed State Settlement Agreement of approximately US$40 million a notice of appeal on the Final Judgment.
On 7 September 2018, approximately 31.4 million with respect to the Acquired Brands.
PM USA filed a notice of appeal with respect to the courts ruling The motion also claims future annual losses of approximately as to ITG.
On 12 September 2018, RJR Tobacco filed a motion to US$15 million approximately 11.8 million absent the courts consolidate RJR Tobaccos appeal with the appeal filed by PM USA, enforcement of the Minnesota State Settlement Agreement.
which was granted on 1 October 2018, RJR Tobaccos initial brief The State of Minnesota also filed a separate complaint against ITG, was due on 11 February 2019.
On 30 January 2019, RJR Tobacco which complaint seeks the same payments.
The States motion filed an agreed notice of extension of time to serve its initial brief.
against RJR Tobacco and complaint against ITG seek, among other RJR Tobaccos initial brief is now due on 2 April 2019.
RJR Tobacco things, an order declaring that RJR Tobacco and ITG are in breach will seek indemnification from ITG, if necessary.
In January 2018, of the Minnesota State Settlement Agreement and are jointly and the auditor of the Florida State Settlement Agreement adjusted the severally liable to make annual payments to the State of Minnesota final 2017 invoice for the annual payment and amended the 2015 under the Minnesota State Settlement Agreement with respect to and 2016 invoices for the respective annual payment and the net the Acquired Brands.
In addition, on 28 March 2018, PM USA filed operating profit penalty for each of those years under the Florida a motion to enforce the Minnesota State Settlement Agreement, Settlement Agreement, based on the auditors interpretation of the asserting, among other things, that RJR Tobacco and ITG breached courts order.
The adjusted invoices reflected amounts due to both the Minnesota State Settlement Agreement by failing to make the State of Florida and PM USA.
In total, the estimated additional settlement payments as to the Acquired Brands, which PM USA amounts due were US$99.4 million approximately 78 million asserts has improperly shifted settlement payment obligations to with US$83.5 million approximately 65.6 million to the State PM USA.
On 27 March 2018, the Minnesota court consolidated of Florida and US$15.9 million approximately 12.5 million to the motions to enforce and complaint against ITG into one PM USA.
RJR Tobacco has advised the auditor that it disputes these proceeding captioned In re Petition of the State of Minnesota amounts, and therefore no further amounts were due or would be foranOrder Compelling Payments of Settlement Proceeds Related paid for those years pending the final resolution of RJR Tobaccos appeal of the courts order.
Those amounts were not paid.
200 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued to ITG Brands LLC, Court File No.
On 11 June Argentina 2018, the court held a scheduling conference in the case and 57.
In 2007, the non-governmental organisation the Argentina Tort by order dated 21 June 2018, set a discovery schedule for the Law Association ATLA and Emma Mendoza Voguet brought case.
Discovery is scheduled to be completed by 31 March 2019. a reimbursement action against Nobleza Piccardo S. A. I. C. y. F. No trial date has yet been set.
The case is being heard in the Contentious Administrative Court and is currently at the 53.
On 28 January 2019, the State of Texas filed motions to join ITG as evidentiary stage.
a defendant and to enforce the Texas State Settlement Agreement against RJR Tobacco and ITG, seeking payment under the Texas Brazil State Settlement Agreement of approximately US$125 million 58.
In August 2007, the So Paulo Public Prosecutors Office filed a approximately 98 million with respect to the Acquired Brands medical reimbursement claim against Souza Cruz S. A. Souza that were sold to ITG in the Divestiture.
The motion also claims Cruz.
A similar claim was lodged against Philip Morris Brasil future annual losses of an unspecified amount absent the courts Indstria e Comrcio Ltda.
On 4 October 2011, the Court enforcement of the Texas State Settlement Agreement.
The States dismissed the action against Souza Cruz, with a judgment on motion seeks, among other things, an order declaring that RJR the merits.
The plaintiffs appeal to the Court of Appeal failed Tobacco, or in the alternative, ITG, is in breach of the Texas by unanimous vote 3 to 0.
The Public Prosecutors Office filed Settlement Agreement and is required to make annual payments to a Special Appeal to the Superior Court of Justice, which was the State under the Texas State Settlement Agreement with respect denied on 12 November 2018 by a decision that is subject to to the Acquired Brands.
In addition, on 29 January 2019, PM USA further appeal.
filed a motion to enforce the Texas State Settlement Agreement, asserting among other things that RJR Tobacco and ITG breached Canada that agreement by failing to make settlement payments as to the 59.
Following the implementation of legislation enabling provincial Acquired Brands, which PM USA asserts has improperly shifted governments to recover healthcare costs directly from tobacco settlement payment obligations to PM USA.
manufacturers, ten actions for recovery of healthcare costs arising from the treatment of smoking and health-related diseases have e UK Based Group Companies been brought.
These proceedings name various Group companies 54.
As at 31 December 2018, Investments has been served in one as defendants, including the Company, Investments, Industries, dormant individual action in the US Perry in which there has Carreras Rothmans Limited collectively, the UK Companies been no activity since 1998 following the plaintiffs death in 1997. and Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited Imperial, the Groups Tobacco Related Litigation Outside the United States operating company in Canada, as well as RJRT and its affiliate R. J. Reynolds Tobacco International Inc. RJRTI collectively, the RJR 55.
Pursuant to the terms of the 1999 sale of RJRTs a. medical reimbursement actions are being brought in Angola, international tobacco business to Japan Tobacco Incorporated Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Nigeria and South Korea: JTI, JTI has agreed to indemnify RJRT for all liabilities and obligations including litigation costs arising in respect of the b. class actions are being brought in Brazil, Canada Canadian recoupment actions.
Subject to a reservation of rights, JTI and Venezuela: has assumed the defence of the RJR Companies in these actions.
c. active tobacco product liability claims against the Groups 60.
The ten cases are proceeding in British Columbia, New Brunswick, companies existed in 14 markets outside the US.
The only Newfoundland and Labrador, Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Alberta, markets with five or more claims were Argentina, Brazil, Saskatchewan, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island.
The enabling Canada, Chile, Nigeria and Italy.
legislation is in force in all ten provinces.
In addition, legislation has a Medical reimbursement cases received Royal Assent in two of the three territories in Canada, but Angola has yet to be proclaimed into force.
In or about November 2016, BAT Angola affiliate Sociedade Unificada fide Tabacos fide Angola SUT was served with a collective action filed in the Provincial Court of Luanda, 2nd Civil Section, by the consumer association Associao Angolana dos Direitos do Consumidor AADIC.
The lawsuit seeks damages of AOA 800,000,000 approximately 2 million or US$2.6 million allegedly incurred by the Angolan Instituto Nacional do Controlo do Cancro INCC for the cost of treating tobacco-related disease, non-material damages allegedly suffered by certain individual smokers on the rolls of INCC, and the mandating of certain cigarette package warnings.
SUT filed its answer to the claim on or about 5 December 2016.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 201 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Act pursuant to which Canadian province Claim was brought Companies named as Defendants Current stage British Columbia Tobacco Damages Imperial The defences of Imperial, Investments, Industries, Carreras Rothmans and Health Care Investments Limited and the RJR Companies have been filed, and document Costs Recovery Act Industries production and discoveries are ongoing.
On 13 February 2017 the 2000 Carreras Rothmans Limited province delivered an expert report dated October 2016, quantifying RJR Companies its damages in the amount of CAD$118 billion approximately 68 Other former Rothmans Group billion or US$ 86.3 billion.
No trial date has been set.
The federal companies government is seeking CAD$5 million approximately 2.9 million or All have been served.
US$3.7 million jointly from all the defendants in respect of costs pertaining to the third-party claim, now dismissed.
New Brunswick Tobacco Damages Imperial, the UK Companies and RJR The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies and Health Care Companies have all been named as have been filed and document production and discoveries are Costs Recovery Act defendants and served.
The most recent expert report filed by the 2006 Province estimates a range of damages between CAD$11.1 billion approximately 6.4 billion or US$8.1 billion CAD$23.2 billion approximately 13.4 billion or US$17 billion, including expected future costs.
Following a motion to set a trial date, the court ordered that the trial commence on 4 November 2019.
Ontario Tobacco Damages Imperial, the UK Companies and RJR The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR and Health Care Companies have all been named as Companies have been filed.
The parties completed significant Costs Recovery Act defendants and served.
document production in summer of 2017 and discoveries 2009 commenced in the fall of 2018.
On 15 June 2018, the province delivered an expert report quantifying its damages in the range of CAD$280 billion approximately 161 billion or US$205 billion CAD$630 billion approximately 362 billion or US$ 461 billion in 2016 2017 dollars for the period 1954 2060, and the Province has amended the damages sought in its Statement of Claim to CAD$330 billion approximately 190 billion or US$242 billion.
On 31 January 2019, the Province delivered a further expert report claiming an additional CAD$9.4 billion approximately 5.4 billion or US$6.9 billion CAD$10.9 billion in damages approximately 6.3 billion or US$7.9 billion in respect of environmental tobacco smoke.
Newfoundland Tobacco Health Care Imperial, the UK Companies and the The case is at an early case management stage.
The defences of and Labrador Costs Recovery Act RJR Companies have all been named Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies have been 2001 as defendants and served.
filed and the province began its document production in March 2018.
Damages have not been quantified by the province.
Saskatchewan Tobacco Damages Imperial, the UK Companies and the This case is at an early case management stage.
The defences of and Health Care RJR Companies have all been named Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies have been Costs Recovery Act as defendants and served.
filed and the province has delivered a test shipment of documents.
2007 Damages have not been quantified by the province.
Manitoba Tobacco Damages Imperial, the UK Companies and RJR This case is at an early case management stage.
The defences of Health Care Costs Companies have all been named as Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies have been Recovery Act 2006 defendants and served.
filed and document production is underway.
Alberta Crowns Right of Imperial, the UK Companies and RJR This case is at an early case management stage.
The defences of Recovery Act 2009 Companies have all been named as Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies have been defendants and served.
The province has stated its claim to be worth CAD$10 billion approximately 5.7 billion or US$7.3 billion.
Quebec Tobacco Related Imperial, Investments, Industries, The case is at an early case management stage.
The defences of Damages and Health theRJR Companies and Carreras Imperial, Investments, Industries, Carreras Rothmans Limited and Care Costs Recovery Rothmans Limited have been named the RJR Companies have been filed.
Motions over admissibility of Act 2009 as defendants and served.
documents and damages discovery have been filed but not heard.
The province is seeking CAD$60 billion approximately 34.4 billion or US$44 billion.
202 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Prince Edward Tobacco Damages Imperial, the UK Companies and RJR This case is at an early case management stage.
The defences of Island and Health Care Companies have all been named as Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies have been Costs Recovery Act defendants and served.
filed and the next step will be document production, which the 2009 parties have deferred for the time being.
Nova Scotia Tobacco Health Care Imperial, the UK Companies and RJR This case is at an early case management stage.
The defences of Costs Recovery Act Companies have all been named as Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies have been 2005 defendants and served.
The province provided a test document production in March 2018.
British American Tobacco Nigeria Limited BAT Nigeria, the Company and Investments have been named as defendants in a medical reimbursement action by the federal government of Nigeria, filed on 6 November 2007 in the Federal High Court, and in similar actions filed by the Nigerian states of Kano 9 May 2007, Oyo 30 May 2007, Lagos 13 March 2008, Ogun 26 February 2008, and Gombe 17 October 2008 commenced in their respective High Courts.
In the five cases that remain active, the plaintiffs seek a total of approximately 10.6 trillion Nigerian naira approximately 22.9 billion or US$29.1 billion in damages, including special, anticipatory and punitive damages, restitution and disgorgement of profits, as well as declaratory and injunctive relief.
The suits claim that the state and federal government plaintiffs incurred costs related to the treatment of smoking-related illnesses resulting from allegedly tortious conduct by the defendants in the manufacture, marketing, and sale of tobacco products in Nigeria, and assert that the plaintiffs are entitled to reimbursement for such costs.
The plaintiffs assert causes of action for negligence, negligent design, fraud and deceit, fraudulent concealment, breach of express and implied warranty, public nuisance, conspiracy, strict liability, indemnity, restitution, unjust enrichment, voluntary assumption of a special undertaking, and performance of anothers duty to the public.
The Company and Investments have made a number of challenges to the jurisdiction of the Nigerian courts.
Such challenges are still pending on appeal against the federal government and the states of Lagos, Kano, Gombe and Ogun.
The underlying cases are stayed or adjourned pending the final outcome of these jurisdictional challenges.
In the state of Oyo, on 13 November 2015, and 24 February 2017, respectively, the Companys and Investments jurisdictional challenges were successful in the Court of Appeal and the issuance of the writ of summons was set aside.
In April 2014, Koreas National Health Insurance Service NHIS filed a healthcare recoupment action against KT&G a Korean tobacco company, PM Korea and BAT Korea including BAT Korea Manufacturing.
The NHIS is seeking damages of roughly 54 billion Korean Won approximately 38 million or US$ 48.2 million in respect of health care costs allegedly incurred by the NHIS treating patients with lung small cell and squamous cell and laryngeal squamous cell cancer between 2003 and 2012.
Court hearings in the case, which constitute the trial, commenced in September 2014 and remain ongoing.
There are currently two class actions being brought in Brazil.
One is also a medical reimbursement claim So Paulo Public Prosecutors Office, and is therefore discussed at paragraph 58 above.
In 1995, the Associao fide Defesa da Sade do Fumante ADESF class action was filed against Souza Cruz and Philip Morris in the So Paulo Lower Civil Court alleging that the defendants are liable to a class of smokers and former smokers for failing to warn of cigarette addiction.
The case was stayed in 2004 pending the defendants appeal from a decision issued by the Lower Civil Court that held that the defendants had not met their burden of proving that cigarette smoking was not addictive or harmful to health.
On 12 November 2008, the So Paulo Court of Appeals overturned the lower courts unfavourable decision of 2004, returning the case to the lower court for production of evidence and a new judgment.
Following production of evidence, on 16 May 2011, the lower court granted Souza Cruzs motion to dismiss the action in its entirety on the merits.
The plaintiffs appeal to the Sao Paolo Court of Appeals was unsuccessful.
The plaintiffs then filed a Special Appeal to the Superior Court of Justice, which was rejected under procedural grounds on 20 February 2017.
The plaintiffs filed an appeal of the rejection in the Superior Court of Justice on 15 March 2017.
There are 11 class actions being brought in Canada against Group companies.
Knight Class Action: The Supreme Court of British Columbia certified a class of all consumers who purchased Imperial cigarettes in British Columbia bearing light or mild descriptors since 1974.
The plaintiff is seeking compensation for amounts spent on light and mild products and a disgorgement of profits from Imperial on the basis that the marketing of light and mild cigarettes was deceptive because it conveyed a false and misleading message that those cigarettes are less harmful than regular cigarettes.
On appeal, the appellate court confirmed the certification of the class, but limited any financial liability, if proven, to 1997 onward.
Imperials third party claim against the federal government was dismissed by the Supreme Court of Canada.
The federal government is seeking a cost order of CAD$5 million approximately 2.9 million or US$3.7 million from Imperial relating to its now dismissed third party claim.
After being dormant for several years, the plaintiff delivered a Notice of Intention to Proceed, and Imperial delivered an application to dismiss the action for delay.
The application was heard on 23 June 2017 and was dismissed on 23 August 2017.
Notice to class members of certification was provided on 14 February 2018.
The next steps include discovery-related ones.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 203 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 71.
Growers Class Action: In December 2009, Imperial was served The security was paid in seven equal quarterly instalments with a proposed class action filed by Ontario tobacco farmers of just over CAD$108 million approximately 62 million or and the Ontario Flue-Cured Tobacco Growers Marketing Board.
US$79 million between 31 December 2015 and 30 June 2017 The plaintiffs allege that Imperial and the Canadian subsidiaries see note 14.
Imperial filed its Factum on Appeal on 11 December of Phillip Morris International and JTI failed to pay the agreed 2015 and the appeal was heard in November 2016.
The decision domestic contract price to the growers used in products has been under reserve and is expected to be released on manufactured for the export market and which were ultimately 1 March 2019. smuggled back into Canada.
Other Canadian Smoking and Health Class Actions: Seven putative pursuant to the JTI Indemnities discussed below at paragraphs class actions, described below, have been filed against various 123 to 124.
The plaintiffs seek damages in the amount of Canadian and non-Canadian tobacco-related entities, including CAD$50 million approximately 28.7 million or US$36.6 million.
the UK Companies, Imperial and the RJR Companies, in various Various preliminary challenges have been heard, the last being a Canadian Provinces.
In these cases, none of which have quantified motion for summary judgment on a limitation period.
The motion their asserted damages, the plaintiffs allege claims based on fraud, was dismissed and ultimately, leave to appeal to the Ontario Court fraudulent concealment, breach of warranty of merchantability, of Appeal was dismissed in November 2016.
In December 2017, and of fitness for a particular purpose, failure to warn, design the plaintiffs proposed that the action proceed by way of individual defects, negligence, breach of a special duty to children and actions as opposed to a class action.
The defendants did not adolescents, conspiracy, concert of action, unjust enrichment, consent.
The claim is currently in abeyance pending further action market share liability and violations of various trade practices and from the plaintiffs.
Pursuant to the terms of the 1999 sale of 72.
Quebec Class Actions: There are currently two class actions in RJRTs international tobacco business, RJRT has tendered to JTI the Quebec.
On 21 February 2005, the Quebec Superior Court defence of these seven actions Semple, Kunka, Adams, Dorion, granted certification in two class actions against Imperial and Bourassa, McDermid and Jacklin, discussed below.
Subject to two other domestic manufacturers.
The Court certified two a reservation of rights, JTI has assumed the defence of the RJR classes, with the class definitions being revised in the judgment Companies in these actions.
One class consists of residents of 74.
In June 2009, four smoking and health class actions were filed in Quebec who a smoked before 20 November 1998 at least Nova Scotia Semple, Manitoba Kunka, Saskatchewan Adams 12 pack years of cigarettes manufactured by the Defendants: and Alberta Dorion against various Canadian and non-Canadian and b were diagnosed before 12 March 2012 with: lung tobacco-related entities, including the UK Companies, Imperial cancer, or cancer squamous cell carcinoma of the throat, and the RJR Companies.
In Saskatchewan, the UK Companies or emphysema.
The group also includes the heirs of persons have been released from the action, and the RJR Companies have deceased after 20 November 1998 who meet the criteria described brought a motion challenging the jurisdiction of the court.
The second consists of residents of Quebec who, as of has been set in these cases with respect to the certification motion 30 September 1998, were addicted to nicotine contained in hearing.
There are service issues in relation to Imperial and the cigarettes and who in addition meet the following three criteria: UK Companies in Alberta and in relation to the UK Companies a they started smoking before 30 September 1994 by smoking in Manitoba.
cigarettes manufactured by the Defendants: b between 1 September and 30 September 1998 they smoked on average 75.
In June 2010, two further smoking and health class actions were at least 15 cigarettes manufactured by the Defendants on a daily filed in British Columbia against various Canadian and nonbasis: and c they still smoked an average of at least 15 cigarettes Canadian tobacco-related entities, including Imperial, the UK manufactured by the Defendants as of 21 February 2005, or Companies and the RJR Companies.
The Bourassa claim is allegedly until their death if it occurred before that date.
The group also on behalf of all individuals who have suffered chronic respiratory includes the heirs of members who meet the criteria described disease and the McDermid claim proposes a class based on heart above.
Pursuant to the judgment, the plaintiffs were awarded disease.
Both claims state that they have been brought on behalf damages and interest against Imperial and the Canadian of those who have smoked a minimum of 25,000 cigarettes.
The subsidiaries of Philip Morris International and JTI in the amount of UK Companies, Imperial, the RJR Companies and other defendants CAD$15.6 billion approximately 9 billion or US$11.4 billion, objected to jurisdiction.
Subsequently, the Company and Carreras of which Imperials share is CAD$10.4 billion approximately Rothmans Limited were released from Bourassa and McDermid.
An appeal of the judgment was filed Imperial, Industries, Investments and the RJR Companies remain as on 26 June 2015.
The Court also awarded provisional execution defendants in both actions.
No certification motion hearing date pending appeal of CAD$1,131 million approximately 650 million has been set.
The Plaintiffs were due to deliver certification motion or US$828 million, of which Imperials share was approximately materials by 31 January 2015, but have not yet done so.
CAD$742 million approximately 427 million or US$543 million.
In June 2012, a new smoking and health class action was filed This order was subsequently overturned by the Court of Appeal.
in Ontario Jacklin against various Canadian and non-Canadian Following the cancellation of the order for provisional execution, tobacco-related entities, including the UK Companies, Imperial and the plaintiffs filed a motion against Imperial and one other the RJR Companies.
The claim is presently in abeyance.
manufacturer seeking security in the amount of CAD $5 billion approximately 2.9 billion or US$3.7 billion to guarantee, in whole or in part, the payment of costs of the appeal and the judgment.
On 27 October 2015, the Court of Appeal ordered the parties to post security in the amount of CAD$984 million approximately 566 million or US$720 million, of which Imperials share was CAD$758 million approximately 436 million or US$ 555 million.
204 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Venezuela 81.
On 8 August 2014, the Company was named as a defendant in an action in state court in North Carolina Corwin v British American 77.
In April 2008, the Venezuelan Federation of Associations of Users Tobacco PLC stemming from the announcement of the Lorillard and Consumers FEVACU and Wolfang Cardozo Espinel and Transaction.
The action was brought on behalf of a putative class Giorgio Di Muro Di Nunno, acting as individuals, filed a class of RAIs shareholders alleging that the Company is a controlling action against the Venezuelan government.
The class action shareholder of RAI and breached its fiduciary duty to the other seeks regulatory controls on tobacco and recovery of medical RAIs shareholders in connection with the Lorillard Transaction.
expenses for future expenses of treating smoking-related illnesses The plaintiff alleges that as part of an equity financing to support in Venezuela.
Both C. A Cigarrera Bigott Sucs.
Cigarrera the Lorillard Transaction, the Company purchased newly issued Bigott, a Group subsidiary, and ASUELECTRIC, represented by RAI stock at an amount alleged to be up to US$920 million its president Giorgio Di Muro Di Nunno who had previously approximately 722 million below fair value.
RAI and the filed as an individual, have been admitted as third parties by the members of the RAI Board of Directors were also named Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice.
date for the action is yet to be scheduled.
On 25 April 2017 and on 23 January 2018, Cigarrera Bigott requested the Court to declare 82.
RAI believed that the Corwin action was without merit.
However, the lapsing of the class action due to no proceedings taking place to eliminate certain burdens, expenses and uncertainties, on in the case in over a year.
A ruling on the matter is yet to be issued.
17 January 2015, RAI and the director defendants in Corwin entered into the North Carolina Memorandum of Understanding c Individual Tobacco Related Personal Injury Claims regarding the settlement of the disclosure claims asserted in that 78.
As at 31 December 2018, the jurisdictions with the most active lawsuit.
The North Carolina Memorandum of Understanding individual cases against Group companies were, in descending outlines the terms of the parties agreement in principle to settle order: Brazil 56, Italy 25, Chile 10, Canada 5, Argentina and release the disclosure claims which were or could have been 5 and Ireland 2.
There were a further four jurisdictions with asserted in Corwin.
In consideration of the partial settlement and one active case only.
Out of the 107 active individual tobacco release, RAI agreed to make certain supplemental disclosures to related personal injury claims, two have received unfavourable the Joint Proxy Statement Prospectus, which it did on 20 January verdicts in either the court of first instance or on appeal.
On 17 February 2016, the trial court approved the partial value of those unfavourable verdicts is approximately 801,954 settlement, including the plaintiffs unopposed request for approximately 719,819 or US$916,750.
US$415,000 approximately 326,000 in attorneys fees and NonTobacco Related Litigation costs.
The partial settlement did not affect the consideration paid to Lorillard shareholders in connection with the Lorillard Merger.
BAT Hrvatska d. o. o u likvidaciji and British American Tobacco 83.
On 4 August 2015, the trial court granted the defendants Investments Central and Eastern Europe Limited are named as motions to dismiss all of the remaining non-disclosure claims.
defendants in a claim by Mr Perica received on 22 August 2017 On 28 August 2015, the court dismissed all claims against the and brought before the commercial court of Zagreb, Croatia.
Among other things, the court found that the plaintiff Mr Perica seeks damages of HRK 408,401,866.15 approximately had not properly alleged that the Company was a controlling 49 million or US$63 million relating to a BAT Standard shareholder of RAI and therefore that the Company did not owe a Distribution Agreement dating from 2005.
BAT Hrvatska d. o. o fiduciary duty to RAIs other shareholders.
and British American Tobacco Investments Central and Eastern On 20 December 2016, the North Carolina Court of Appeals Europe Ltd filed a reply to the statement of claim on 6 October affirmed the trial courts dismissal of the claims against RAI and 2017.
A hearing had been scheduled to take place on 10 May RAIs Board of Directors on the grounds that the plaintiff could not 2018, but it was postponed due to a change of the judge hearing state a direct claim against RAIs Board of Directors for breach of the case.
The Commercial Court in Zagreb declared they do not fiduciary duties.
That court reversed the trial courts judgment with have jurisdiction and that the competent court to hear this case respect to the claims against the Company, finding the allegations is the Municipal Court in Zagreb.
TDR d. o. o. is also named as that the Company was a controlling shareholder and breached its the defendant in a claim by Mr Perica received on 30 April 2018 fiduciary duty to be sufficient to warrant further proceedings for and brought before the commercial court of Zagreb, Croatia.
the plaintiff to attempt to prove those allegations with evidence.
Mr. Perica seeks payment in the amount of HRK 408,401,866.15 On 4 January 2017, the Company moved to have the North approximately 49 million or US$63 million claiming that BAT Carolina Court of Appeals rehear the case en banc, and that Hrvatska d. o. o. transferred a business unit to TDR d. o. o, thus motion was denied on 2 February 2017.
On 17 February 2017, giving rise to a liability of TDR d. o. o. for the debts incurred by the Company filed a petition for discretionary review with the BAT Hrvatska d. o. o, on the basis of the provisions of Croatian civil North Carolina Supreme Court, which the court allowed on 9 June obligations law.
A response to the statement of claim was filed on 2017.
On 7 December 2018, after briefing and oral argument, 30 May 2018.
The Commercial Court in Zagreb declared they the North Carolina Supreme Court reversed the decision of the do not have jurisdiction and that the competent court to hear Court of Appeals, finding insufficient the plaintiffs allegations that this case is the Municipal Court in Pula.
Mr Perica filed an appeal the Company was a controlling shareholder of RAI and effectively against this decision which was rejected by the High Commercial reinstating the trial courts dismissal of the claims against the Court of The Republic of Croatia confirming therewith that the Company.
On 11 January 2019, the plaintiff filed a petition for competent court to hear this case is the Municipal Court in Pula.
rehearing with the North Carolina Supreme Court, which was denied on 30 January 2019.
Reynolds American, Inc. Lorillard, Inc.
On 15 July 2014, RAI announced that it had entered into a definitive merger agreement with Lorillard.
Inc. Lorillard, whereby RAI would acquire Lorillard in exchange for a combination of cash and RAI stock the Lorillard Transaction.
As part of this transaction, the Company executed a Share Purchase Agreement to acquire a sufficient number of RAIs shares to maintain its approximately 42.2 per cent equity stake in RAI after the merger.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 205 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued BAT Reynolds American Inc.
In NCRs Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2014, which is the most recent public source 84.
Following the Companys acquisition of the remaining 57.8% of available, the total clean-up costs for the Fox River are estimated RAI in July 2017, pursuant to North Carolina law, under which at US$825 million approximately 648 million.
This estimate RAI was incorporated, a number of RAI shareholders dissented is subject to uncertainties and does not include natural resource and asserted their rights to a judicial appraisal of the value of damages NRDs.
Total NRDs may range from US$0 to their RAI stock.
On 29 November 2017, RAI filed a Complaint US$246 million approximately 0193 million.
for Judicial Appraisal in state court in North Carolina against 20 dissenting shareholders, comprised of three groups of affiliated 89.
Industries involvement with the environmental liabilities arises entities claiming price per share values of US$81.21, US$88.16 out of indemnity arrangements which it became party to due to a andUS$94.33 respectively.
The complaint asks the court to series of transactions that took place from the late-1970s onwards determine the fair value of the dissenting shareholders shares and subsequent litigation brought by NCR against Industries and inRAI and any accrued interest.
Trial is currently scheduled to Appvion Inc. Appvion a former Group subsidiary in relation beheld no earlier than June 2019. to those arrangements which was ultimately settled.
US authorities have never identified Industries as a PRP.
On 22 June 2018, an affiliate of Philip Morris International PMI 90.
There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the United commenced proceedings against British American Tobacco Japan, States involving NCR and Appvion regarding the responsibility Ltd. in the Japanese courts challenging the manufacture, import for the costs of the clean-up operations.
The US Government also and sale of the glo device and of the NeoStik consumable in brought enforcement proceedings against NCR and Appvion to Japan, claiming that the glo devices directly infringe two Japanese ensure compliance with regulatory orders made in relation to patents that have been issued to the PMI affiliate and that the the Fox River clean-up.
This litigation has been settled through NeoStik indirectly infringe those patents.
Damages for the glo agreements with other PRPs and a form of settlement known as a device and NeoStik are claimed in the court filing, to the amount Consent Decree with the US Government.
of 100 million yen approximately 715,650 or US$911,452.
The principal terms of the Consent Decree, in summary, are PMI has also filed a request for injunction with respect to the glo as follows: device.
BAT denies infringement and is challenging the validity of the two PMI Japanese patents.
a. NCR will perform and fund all of the remaining Fox River remediation work by itself.
The US Government enforcement proceedings will be settled, 86.
On 19 April 2017, Sociedade Agrcola fide Tabacos, Limitada with NCR having no liability to meet the US Governments SAT a BAT Group company in Mozambique filed a complaint claim for costs it has incurred in relation to the clean-up to to the National Inspectorate for Economic Activities INAE, date and only a secondary responsibility to meet certain the government body under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, future costs.
NCR will have no liability to the US Government regarding alleged infringements of its registered trademark GT for NRDs.
INAE subsequently seized the allegedly infringing products GS cigarettes and fined and ordered GST to discontinue c. NCR will cease to pursue its contribution claims against the manufacturing products that could infringe SATs intellectual other PRPs and in return will receive contribution protection property rights.
Following INAEs decision, in July 2017 and March which means that the other PRPs will not be able to pursue 2018, SAT sought damages via the Judicial Court of Nampula, from their contribution claims against NCR.
NCR will, however, GST in the amount of and equivalent to 572,907 approximately have the right to reinstate its contribution claims if the other US$730,000 as well as a permanent restraint order in connection PRPs decide to continue to pursue certain contractual claims with the manufacturing and selling of the allegedly infringing against NCR.
The Judicial Court of Nampula Tribunal Judicial fide d. Appvion will also cease to pursue its claims against the other Nampula granted the order on an interim basis on 7 August 2017.
PRPs to recover monies that it has spent on the clean-up and After hearing the parties, on 5 September 2017, the Court found in return will receive contribution protection.
Appvion will, that no alleged infringement by GST had occurred and removed however, have the right to reinstate its claims if the other PRPs the interim restraint order, this decision was appealed by SAT and decide to continue to pursue certain claims against Appvion.
GST filed an application for review against INAEs initial decision directly to the Minister of Trade and 92.
The Consent Decree was approved by the District Court in Industry, which reversed the decision of INAE.
On 31 December Wisconsin on 23 August 2017.
The US Government enforcement 2018, SAT was notified of GSTs counterclaim against SAT at the action against NCR was terminated as a result of that order.
Judicial Court of Nampula for damages allegedly sustained as a The PRPs claims for contribution against NCR were dismissed by result of SATs complaint to INAE and INAEs decision.
GST is order of the District Court in Wisconsin given on 11 October 2017. seeking damages in the amount equivalent to 190 million 93.
On 20 October 2017 P. H. Glatfelter filed an appeal against the approximately US$242 million.
On 31 January 2019 SAT filed approval of the Consent Decree in the US Court of Appeals for the aformal response to the counterclaim.
On 4 January 2019 the US Department of Justice filed a motion for Background to environmental liabilities arising out of contamination of approval of a separate Consent Decree with Georgia-Pacific and the Fox River P. H. Glatfelter.
This Consent Decree settles the allocation of costs of 87.
In Wisconsin, the authorities have identified potentially responsible the remaining remediation work on the Fox River and, if approved, parties PRPs to fund the clean-up of river sediments in the will lead to P. H. Glatfelter withdrawing its 20 October 2017 lower Fox River.
The pollution was caused by discharges of appeal.
Approval of this Consent Decree should therefore conclude Polychlorinated Biphenyls PCBs from paper mills and other all current Fox River litigation.
facilities operating close to the river.
Among the PRPs is NCR Corporation NCR.
206 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Industries involvement with environmental liabilities arising out of the and ii a claim commenced by Industries directly against Sequana contamination of the Fox River to recover the value of the Dividend Payments alleging that the 95.
NCR has taken the position that, under the terms of a 1998 dividends were paid for the purpose of putting assets beyond the Settlement Agreement between it, Appvion and Industries and a reach of Windwards creditors including Industries the BAT 2005 arbitration award, Industries and Appvion generally had a section 423 Claim.
joint and several obligation to bear 60 per cent of the Fox River environmental remediation costs imposed on NCR and of any 100.
A trial of the Windward Dividend Claim and the BAT section 423 amounts NCR has to pay in respect of other PRPs contribution Claim took place before the English High Court between February claims.
BAT has not acknowledged any such liability to NCR and and April 2016.
Judgment was handed down by the High Court has defences to such claims.
Further, under the terms of the on 11 July 2016.
The Court held that the 2009 Dividend Payment Funding Agreement described above and below any dispute of 135 million approximately 121 million or US$154 million between Industries and NCR as to the final amount of any NCR was a transaction at an undervalue made with the intention of claim against Industries in respect of the Fox River if any can putting assets beyond the reach of Industries or of otherwise only be determined at the later of i the completion of Fox River prejudicing Industries interests.
It therefore contravened Section remediation works or ii the final resolution and exhaustion 423 of the Insolvency Act.
The Court dismissed the Windward of all possible appeals in the proceedings against Sequana, Dividend Claim.
BTI sought permission to appeal in respect of  LLP PwC and other former advisers.
the Judges findings in relation to the Windward Dividend Claim.
Sequana sought permission to appeal the Judges findings in 96.
Until May 2012, Appvion and Windward another former relation to the BAT section 423 claim.
Group subsidiary paid 60 per cent share of the clean-up costs.
and Industries was never required to contribute.
On 13 and 16 January 2017 and 3 February 2017 further hearings Appvion refused to continue to pay clean-up costs, leading to NCR took place to determine the precise form of relief to be awarded demanding that Industries pay a 60 per cent share.
to Industries and to hear the parties applications for permission to appeal.
Judgment was handed down on 10 February 2017.
Industries commenced proceedings against Windward and In respect of relief, the Court ordered that Sequana must pay Appvion in December 2011 seeking indemnification in respect BTI an amount up to the full value of the 2009 Dividend plus of any liability it might have to NCR the English Indemnity interest which equates to around US$185 million approximately Proceedings pursuant to a 1990 fide-merger agreement between 145 million.
This figure is subject to increase as interest is those parties.
Sequana must make an initial payment of Funding Agreement of 30 September 2014 around US$138.4 million approximately 108.7 million and 98.
On 30 September 2014, Industries entered into the Funding further payments going forward as and when Industries makes Agreement with Windward, Appvion, NCR and BTI 2014 LLC payments in respect of clean-up costs.
In respect of appeals, BTI a wholly owned subsidiary of Industries.
Pursuant to the the Court granted BTI and Sequana permission to appeal the Funding Agreement, the English Indemnity Proceedings and a Sequana Claims Appeal.
The Court also granted Sequana counterclaim Appvion had brought in those proceedings, as well a stay in respect of the above payments.
The stay was lifted in as an NCR-Appvion arbitration concerning Appvions indemnity May 2017. to NCR, were discontinued as part of an overall agreement 102.
In February 2017 Sequana entered into a process in France between the parties providing a framework through which they seeking court protection the Sauvegarde.
Sequana exited the would together fund the ongoing costs of the Fox River clean Sauvegarde in June 2017.
To date, Industries has not received any up.
Under the agreement, NCR has agreed to accept funding payments from Sequana.
by Industries at the lower level of 50 per cent of the ongoing clean-up related costs of the Fox River rather than the 60 per cent 103.
In June 2018, the Court of Appeal heard arguments in the referenced above: this remains subject to an ability to litigate at a Sequana Claims Appeal.
On 6 February 2019 the Court of Appeal later stage the extent of Industries liability in relation to Fox River gave judgment upholding the High Courts findings, with one clean-up related costs including in respect of the 50 per cent immaterial change to the method of calculating the damages of costs that Industries has paid under the Funding Agreement awarded.
Sequana therefore remains liable to pay approximately to date.
In addition, Windward has contributed US$10 million US$185 million approximately 145 million.
The Court of approximately 7.8 million of funding and Appvion has Appeal dismissed BTIs appeal in relation to the Windward contributed US$25 million approximately 19.6 million for Fox Dividend Claim.
The Court of Appeal also dismissed Sequanas River and agreed to contribute US$25 million approximately application for permission to appeal the High Courts costs order 19.6 million for the Kalamazoo River see further below.
Sequana therefore remains liable to pay Appvion entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on around 10 million approximately US$12.7 million in costs to 1 October 2017.
The Court of Appeal made no order as to the costs of the appeal.
All parties to the appeal sought permission from the 99.
The parties also agreed to cooperate in order to maximise Court of Appeal for a further appeal to the U. K. Supreme Court.
recoveries from certain claims made against third parties, including The Court of Appeal refused the applications.
Industries and BTI i a claim commenced by Windward in the High Court of England are considering requesting permission to appeal directly from the & Wales the High Court against Sequana and the former Supreme Court.
Windward directors the Windward Dividend Claim.
BTI has brought claims against certain of Windwards former was assigned to BTI under the Funding Agreement, and relates advisers, including Windwards auditors at the time of the to dividend payments made by Windward to Sequana of around dividend payments, PwC which claims were also assigned to 443 million approximately 398 million or US$506 million BTI under the Funding Agreement.
The claim was stayed while in 2008 and 135 million approximately 121 million or the Windward Dividends claim and the BAT section 423 Claim US$154 million in 2009 the Dividend Payments were heard.
BTI and PwC have agreed that the stay will remain in effect until the Court of Appeal gives judgment in the Sequana Claims Appeal.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 207 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 105.
The sums Industries has agreed to pay under the Funding 112.
Industries also anticipates that NCR may seek to recover from Agreement are subject to ongoing adjustment, as clean-up costs Appvion subject to a cap of US$25 million approximately can only be estimated in advance of the work being carried 19.7 million for Future Sites under the Funding Agreement.
out and as certain sums payable are the subject of ongoing US The basis of the recovery would be the same as any demand NCR litigation.
In 2018, Industries paid 25 million approximately may make on Industries.
Appvion entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy US$32 million in respect of clean-up costs and is potentially liable protection on 1 October 2017.
The effect of the Chapter 11 for further costs associated with the clean-up.
Industries has a proceedings on Appvions liability for Future Sites payments under provision of 108 million approximately US$137.5 million which the Funding Agreement is currently uncertain.
represents the current best estimate of its exposure see note 21.
Further hearings have been held before Judge Jonker to determine Kalamazoo the final form of the order reflecting this judgment.
The parties commenced appeal proceedings against this judgment in July 106.
NCR is also being pursued by Georgia-Pacific, as the owner of a 2018.
NCR has agreed an appeal bond with Georgia-Pacific to facility on the Kalamazoo River in Michigan which released PCBs prevent enforcement of the judgment while it remains subject to into that river.
Georgia-Pacific has been designated as a PRP in appeal.
The appeal bond arrangement has been approved by the respect of the river.
The timing of any appeal hearing is currently unknown.
Georgia-Pacific contends that NCR is responsible for, or should 114.
The quantum of the clean-up costs for the Kalamazoo River is contribute to, the clean-up costs, because: presently unclear and the extent of NCRs liability in respect of a. predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division sold broke such future costs remains unclear pending the outcome of the containing PCBs to Georgia-Pacific or others for recycling: appeal of Judge Jonkers 29 March 2018 judgment, but could run into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
A witness on behalf b. NCR itself sold paper containing PCBs to Georgia-Pacific or of Georgia-Pacific testified in the trial concerning apportionment others for recycling: and or of liability that the cost of performing future remediation in c. NCR is liable for sales to Georgia-Pacific or others of PCBOperable Unit 5 of the Kalamazoo River was in the order of containing broke by Mead Corporation, which, like the US$670 million.
Operable Unit 5 predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division, coated paper is the Kalamazoo River itself, as distinct from the other Operable with the PCB containing emulsion manufactured by NCR.
Units which are landfills or other facilities adjoining the Kalamazoo River.
Remediation of these other operable Units has largely been 108.
A full trial on liability took place in February 2013. completed except for monitoring.
On 26 September 2013, the Michigan Court held that NCR was liable as a PRP on the basis that broke sales constituted 115.
As detailed above, Industries is taking active steps to protect its an arrangement for the disposal of hazardous material for the interests, including seeking to procure the repayment of the purposes of CERCLA.
The decision was based on NCRs knowledge Windward dividends, pursuing the other valuable claims that are of the hazards of PCBs from at least 1969.
The decision is now within its control, and working with the other parties to the under appeal.
Funding Agreement to maximise recoveries from third parties with a view to ensuring that amounts funded towards clean up related 109.
The second phase of the Kalamazoo trial to determine the costs are later recouped under the agreed repayment mechanisms apportionment of liability amongst NCR, Georgia-Pacific and under the Funding Agreement.
the other PRPs International Paper Company and Weyerhaeuser Company took place between September and December 2015.
RAI and its subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local 110.
On 29 March 2018, Judge Jonker handed down judgment in environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, respect of around US$55 million approximately 43 million storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances.
Judge Jonker did not Such laws and regulations provide for significant fines, penalties determine the question of future remediation costs.
Judge Jonker and liabilities, sometimes without regard to whether the owner ordered that NCR pay 40% of Georgia-Pacifics past costs around or operator of the property or facility knew of, or was responsible US$22 million approximately 17.3 million.
for, the release or presence of hazardous or toxic substances.
It is anticipated that NCR will look to Industries to pay 60 per In addition, third parties may make claims against owners or cent of any sums it becomes liable to pay to Georgia-Pacific on operators of properties for personal injuries and property damage the basis, it would be asserted, that the river constitutes a Future associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances.
In the Site for the purposes of the Settlement Agreement.
The Funding past, RJRT has been named a potentially responsible party PRP Agreement described above does not resolve any such claims, with third parties under the Comprehensive Environmental but does provide an agreed mechanism pursuant to which any Response, Compensation and Liability Act CERCLA with respect surplus from the valuable recoveries of any third party claims to several superfund sites.
RAI and its subsidiaries are not aware that remains after all Fox River related clean-up costs have been of any current environmental matters that are expected to have paid and Industries and NCR have been made whole may be a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations or applied towards Kalamazoo clean-up costs, in the event that financial position of RAI or its subsidiaries.
NCR were to be successful in any claim for a portion of them Criminal investigations from Industries or Appvion subject to Appvions cap, described below.
Industries has defences to any claims made by NCR in 117.
As previously reported by the Group, it has been investigating, relation to the Kalamazoo River.
No such claims have been made through external legal advisors, allegations of misconduct and against Industries.
has been liaising with the UKs Serious Fraud Office SFO and other relevant authorities.
It was announced in August 2017 that the SFO had opened an investigation in relation to the Group, its subsidiaries and associated persons.
The Group is cooperating with the SFOs investigation.
208 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 118.
The outcomes of these matters will be decided by the relevant authorities or, if necessary, the courts.
It is too early to predict the outcomes, but these could include the prosecution of individuals and or of a Group company or companies.
Accordingly, the potential for fines, penalties or other consequences cannot currently be assessed.
As the investigation is ongoing, it is not yet possible to identify the timescale in which these matters might be resolved.
The following matters on which the Company reported in the contingent liabilities and financial commitments note 28 to the Companys 2017 financial statements have been dismissed, concluded or resolved as noted below: Matter Jurisdiction Companies named as Defendants Description Disposition Fontem USA R. J. Reynolds Vapor Company Alleged patent infringement Settlement agreed on confidential terms Codacons Italy BAT Italia Smoking and health class action Supreme Court decision Investments Indemnity Japan British American Tobacco Alleged patent infringement Settlement agreed on confidential Investments Limited terms Lights Class Actions USA RJRT and B&W Four Lights class actions Court ordered dismissal Parsons Class Action USA RJRT and B&W Smoking and health class action Court ordered dismissal General Litigation Conclusion 120.
While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, the Group believes that the defences of the Groups companies to all these various claims are meritorious on both the law and the facts, and a vigorous defence is being made everywhere.
An adverse judgment was entered against one Group company, Imperial, in the Quebec class actions and an appeal has been made.
The decision in that appeal is expected to be released on 1 March 2019.
As at 27 February 2019, no judgment has been made available by the Court of Appeal, there is no indication of the outcome and, as such, there is no change to the managements assessment of the outcome of the appeal.
The Group continues to recognise the value of the Order for Security as a receivable and with the outcome of the appeal against the substantive decision included as a contingent liability.
Subject to the outcome of the judgment, the Group will assess its response and will provide further guidance.
If further adverse judgments are entered against any of the Groups companies in any case, avenues of appeal will be pursued.
Such appeals could require the appellants to post appeal bonds or substitute security as has been necessary in Quebec in amounts which could in some cases equal or exceed the amount of the judgment.
At least in the aggregate, and despite the quality of defences available to the Group, it is not impossible that the Groups results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods could be materially adversely affected by the impact of a significant increase in litigation, difficulties in obtaining the bonding required to stay execution of judgments on appeal, or any final outcome of any particular litigation.
Having regard to all these matters, with the exception of Fox River and certain Engle progeny cases identified above the Group does not consider it appropriate to make any provision in respect of any pending litigation because the likelihood of any resulting material loss, on an individual case basis, is not considered probable and or the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated.
The Group does not believe that the ultimate outcome of this litigation will significantly impair the Groups financial condition.
If the facts and circumstances change, then there could be a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
By a purchase agreement dated 9 March 1999, amended and restated as of 11 May 1999, referred to as the 1999 Purchase Agreement, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. RJR and RJRT sold their international tobacco business to JTI.
Under the 1999 Purchase Agreement, RJR and RJRT retained certain liabilities relating to the international tobacco business sold to JTI, and agreed to indemnify JTI against: i any liabilities, costs and expenses arising out of the imposition or assessment of any tax with respect to the international tobacco business arising prior to the sale, other than as reflected on the closing balance sheet: ii any liabilities, costs and expenses that JTI or any of its affiliates, including the acquired entities, may incur after the sale with respect to any of RJRs or RJRTs employee benefit and welfare plans: and iii any liabilities, costs and expenses incurred by JTI or any of its affiliates arising out of certain activities of Northern Brands.
RJRT has received claims for indemnification from JTI, and several of these have been resolved.
Although RJR and RJRT recognise that, under certain circumstances, they may have other unresolved indemnification obligations to JTI under the 1999 Purchase Agreement, RJR and RJRT disagree what circumstances described in such claims give rise to any indemnification obligations by RJR and RJRT and the nature and extent of any such obligation.
RJR and RJRT have conveyed their position to JTI, and the parties have agreed to resolve their differences at a later date.
In the Divestiture, RAI agreed to defend and indemnify, subject to certain conditions and limitations, ITG in connection with claims relating to the purchase or use of one or more of the Winston, Kool, Salem or Maverick cigarette brands on or before 12 June 2015, as well as in actions filed before 13 June 2023, relating to the purchase or use of one or more of the Winston, Kool, Salem or Maverick cigarette brands.
In the purchase agreement relating to the Divestiture, ITG agreed to defend and indemnify, subject to certain conditions and limitations, RAI and its affiliates in connection with claims relating to the purchase or use of blu brand e-cigarettes.
ITG also agreed to defend and indemnify, subject to certain conditions and limitations, RAI and its affiliates in actions filed after 12 June 2023, relating to the purchase or use of one or more of the Winston, Kool, Salem or Maverick cigarette brands after 12 June 2015.
ITG has tendered a number of actions to RAI under the terms of this indemnity, and RAI has, subject to a reservation of rights, agreed to defend and indemnify ITG pursuant to the terms of the indemnity.
These claims are substantially similar in nature and extent to claims asserted directly against RJRT in similar actions.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 209 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 126.
In 2008, Loews Corporation Loews, entered 129.
Except as other wise noted above, RAI is not able to estimate the into an agreement with Lorillard, Lorillard Tobacco, and certain of maximum potential of future payments, if any, related to these their affiliates, which agreement is referred to as the Separation indemnification obligations.
In the Separation Agreement, Lorillard agreed to 130.
There are instances where Group indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents companies are co-operating with relevant national competition against all costs and expenses arising out of third-party claims authorities, including amongst others in the Ukraine and Cyprus, including, without limitation, attorneys fees, interest, penalties in relation to on-going competition law investigations.
and costs of investigation or preparation of defence, judgments, fines, losses, claims, damages, liabilities, taxes, demands, Tax Disputes assessments, and amounts paid in settlement based on, arising The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a out of or resulting from, among other things, Loews ownership number of taxes.
The Group is and has been subject to a number of of or the operation of Lorillard and its assets and properties, and tax audits covering, amongst others, excise tax, value added taxes, its operation or conduct of its businesses at any time prior to or sales taxes, corporate taxes, withholding taxes and payroll taxes.
following the separation of Lorillard and Loews including with The estimated costs of known tax obligations have been provided respect to any product liability claims.
Loews is a defendant in in these accounts in accordance with Groups accounting policies.
three pending product liability actions, each of which is a putative In some countries, tax law requires that full or part payment of class action.
Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Lorillard is disputed tax assessments be made pending resolution of the dispute.
required to indemnify Loews for the amount of any losses and To the extent that such payments exceed the estimated obligation, any legal or other fees with respect to such cases.
Following the they would not be recognised as an expense.
closing of the Lorillard merger, RJRT assumed Lorillards obligations under the Separation Agreement as was required under the The following matters may proceed to litigation: Separation Agreement.
In connection with the 13 January 2016 sale The Brazilian Federal Tax Authority has filed claims against Souza Cruz by RAI of the international rights to the Natural American seeking to reassess the profits of overseas subsidiaries to corporate Spirit brand name and associated trademarks, along with SFR income tax and social contribution tax.
The reassessments are Tobacco International GmbH SFRTI and other international for the years 2004 until and including 2012 for a total amount of companies that distributed and marketed the brand outside the BRL1,630 million 330 million to cover tax, interest and penalties.
United States, to JT International Holding BV JTI Holding, Souza Cruz appealed all reassessments.
Regarding the first assessments each of SFNTC, R. J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. and R. J.
2004-2006 Souza Cruzs appeal was rejected in 2013 although the Reynolds Tobacco B. V. agreed to indemnify JTI Holding against, written judgement of that tribunal was received in 2016.
Souza Cruz among other things, any liabilities, costs, and expenses relating has appealed the decision.
The appeal against the second assessments to actions i commenced on or before a 13 January 2019, 2007 and 2008 was upheld at the second tier tribunal and was to the extent relating to alleged personal injuries, and b in all closed.
In 2015, a further reassessment for the same period 2007 and other cases, 13 January 2021: ii brought by a a governmental 2008 was raised after the five-year statute of limitation.
This has been authority to enforce legislation implementing European Union appealed to the administrative level special chamber.
Directive 2001 37 EC or European Directive 2014 40 EU or b consumers or a consumer association: and iii arising out of Souza Cruz received further reassessments in 2014 for the 2009 any statement or claim a made on or before 13 January 2016, calendar year and in 2015 an assessment for the 2010 calendar year.
b by any company sold to JTI Holding in the transaction, c Souza Cruz appealed both the reassessments in full.
In December concerning Natural American Spirit brand products consumed 2016, assessments were received for the calendar years 2011 and 2012 or intended to be consumed outside of the United States and which have also been appealed.
d that the Natural American Spirit brand product is natural, South Africa organic, or additive free.
Under the terms of this indemnity, JTI has requested indemnification from Santa Fe Natural Tobacco In 2011, the South African Revenue Service SARS challenged the Company Germany GmbH SFNTCG in connection with an debt financing of British American Tobacco South Africa BATSA audit of SFNTCG relating to transfer pricing for the tax years 2007 and reassessed the years 2006 to 2008.
BATSA has objected to and to 2010 and 2012 to 2015.
SFNTCG contests the audit results.
In 2014, SARS also reassessed the years The amount in dispute is approximately 21 million plus interest 2009 and 2010.
In 2015, BATSA filed formal Notices of Appeal and approximately 18.8 million or US$24 million.
detailed objection letters against the 2009 and 2010 assessments and has reserved its right to challenge the constitutionality of the 128.
Indemnification of Distributors and Retailers.
RJRT, Lorillard assessment at a later date.
In 2016, SARS filed a Statement of Grounds Tobacco, Santa Fe, American Snuff Co. and RJR Vapor have of Assessment and BATSA filed its Statement of Grounds of Appeal entered into agreements to indemnify certain distributors and in early 2017.
During 2018 both parties have filed their notices of retailers from liability and related defence costs arising out of discovery.
Across the period from 2006 to 2010 the reassessments the sale or distribution of their products.
Additionally, Santa Fe arefor ZAR2.1 billion 116 million covering both tax and interest.
has entered into an agreement to indemnify a supplier from liability and related defence costs arising out of the sale or use ofSanta Fes products.
The cost has been, and is expected to be, insignificant.
RJRT, Santa Fe, American Snuff Co. and RJR Vapor believe that the indemnified claims are substantially similar in nature and extent to the claims that they are already exposed toby virtue of their having manufactured those products.
210 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued The Netherlands The Dutch tax authority has issued a number of assessments on various issues across the years 2003-2016 in relation to various intra-group transactions.
The assessments amount to an aggregate net liability across these periods of 902 million covering tax, interest and penalties.
The Group has appealed against the assessments in full.
The Group believes that its companies have meritorious defences in law and fact in each of the above matters and intends to pursue each dispute through the judicial system as necessary.
The Group does not consider it appropriate to make provision for these amounts nor for any potential further amounts which may be assessed in relation to these matters in subsequent years.
While the amounts that may be payable or receivable in relation to tax disputes could be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised, the Board does not expect these amounts to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
VAT and duty disputes Bangladesh On 25 July 2018, the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of Bangladesh has reversed the decision of the High Court Division against BAT Bangladesh in respect of the retrospective demands for VAT and Supplementary Duty amounting to approximately 170 million.
The Attorney Generals Office has 30 days from receipt of the certified Court Order, which remains to be issued, in which to seek a review of this decision.
Egypt British American Tobacco Egypt LLC is subject to two ongoing civil cases concerning the imposition of sales tax on low price category brands brought by the Egyptian tax authority for approximately 102 million.
Management believes that the tax claims are unfounded and has appealed the tax claims.
These cases are under review by the Council of State and hearings are scheduled for 27 March 2019 and 24 April 2019 respectively.
Operating leases Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases comprise leases where payments fall due: 2018 2017 m m Property Within one year 111 75 Between one and five years 269 183 Beyond five years 137 117 517 375 Plant and equipment and other Within one year 66 32 Between one and five years 107 38 173 70 Total operating lease commitments note 31 690 445 Performance guarantees As part of the acquisition of TDR in 2015, the Group has committed to keeping the manufacturing facility in Kanfanar, Croatia operational for at least five years following completion of the acquisition.
A similar commitment for four years following completion was given in respect of the packaging plant in Rovinj, Croatia, which was disposed of in December 2018.
The maximum exposure under these guarantees is 46 million 2017: 46 million of which 1 million relates to the Rovinj plant.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 211
