Governance Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Responsibility of Directors Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect Directors declaration in relation to relevant @ @ ofthe Annual Report and the financial statements auditinformation The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Having made appropriate enquiries, each of the Directors who held the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with office at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: applicable law and regulations.
to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and parent relevantaudit information of which the Companys auditors company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that areunaware: and law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements he or she has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably be in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as expected to have taken in order to make himself or herself aware adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU and of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial auditors are aware of that information.
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
In preparing these Group Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with @ of the annual financial report IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IFRS as We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: issued by the IASB.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of their profit theundertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and reliable: and uncertainties that they face.
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, isfair, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS balanced and understandable and provides information necessary asissued by the IASB: for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any This responsibility statement has been approved and is signed by order material departures disclosed and explained in the Company of the Board by: financial statements: Richard Burrows Ben Stevens assess the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going Chairman Finance Director concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and 27 February 2019 use the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either British American Tobacco p. l. c. intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, Registered in England and Wales No.
3407696 orhave no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report included on the Companys website.
Legislation inthe UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
@ denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report onForm20-F as filed with the SEC.
114 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
