Additional disclosures Property, plant and equipment The Group uses a combination of in-house and contract manufacturers to manufacture its products.
1 BATowned tobacco manufacturing facilities United States APME AmSSA ENA Total Fully integrated manufacturing 2 17 15 13 47 Sites processing tobacco only 1 7 9 2 19 Site manufacturing other tobacco products only 3 5 8 R&D facilities 1 1 3 2 7 Total 7 25 27 22 81 Note: 1.
The plants and properties owned or leased and operated by the Groups subsidiaries are maintained in good condition and are believed to be suitable and adequate for the Groups present needs.
The technology employed in the Groups factories is sophisticated, especially in the area of cigarette making and packing where throughputs can reach between 500 and 1,000 packs per minute.
The Group can produce many different pack formats e. g. the number of cigarettes per packet and configurations e. g. bevel edge, round corner, international to suit marketing and consumer requirements.
New technology machines are sourced from the leading machinery suppliers to the industry.
Close cooperation with these organisations helps the Group support its marketing strategy by driving its product innovations, which are brought to the market on a regular basis.
The Group utilises quality standards, processes and procedures covering the entire end-to-end value chain to help to ensure quality products are provided to its customers and adult tobacco consumers according to the Groups requirements and end market regulatory requirements.
The Group has several improvement initiatives which it is currently managing.
For example, the Group is continuing to realise the benefits of its Integrated Work System Programme launched in 2014, which is centrally led with an aim to improve the performance of the Groups factories globally by focusing on manufacturing standards, continuous improvement, assessment and benchmarking and organisational development.
The Group also utilises a survey process in the factories with an aim to improve factory productivity and reduce costs in the manufacturing environment.
This process, known as Bulls Eye, has been in existence for a number of years and highlights productivity opportunities by benchmarking.
In 2018, the Group manufactured cigarettes in 47 cigarette factories in 44countries.
These plants and properties are owned or leased and operated by the Groups subsidiaries.
The Groups factory outputs and establishments vary significantly in size and production capacity.
In 2018, the Group used third-party manufacturers to manufacture the components required, including the devices, related to PRRPs.
The Group also used third-party manufacturers to supplement the Groups own production facilities in the US and Poland to bottle the liquids used in the vapour products.
For more information on property, plant and equipment, see note 10 in the Notes on the Accounts.
292 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
