Additional disclosures Controls and procedures Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures Disclosure controls and procedures The Group maintains disclosure controls and procedures as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports the Group files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive and Finance Director, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our management, including the Chief Executive and Finance Director, recognise that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.
Due to the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Group have been detected.
The Groups disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, reasonable assurance standards.
Management, with the participation of the Chief Executive and Finance Director, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Group disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive and Finance Director have concluded that the Group disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level.
Managements report on internal control over financial reporting Management, under the oversight of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
The Groups internal control over financial reporting consists of processes which are designed to: provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the Groups financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB: provide reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditure are made only in accordance with the authorisation of management: and provide reasonable assurance regarding the prevention or timely detection of any unauthorised acquisition, use or disposal of assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management has assessed the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13 a -13 f and 15 d -15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 based on the updated Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO 2013.
Based on that assessment, management has determined that the Groups internal control over financial reporting was effective as at 31 December 2018.
Any internal control framework, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls and procedures and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or because the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, who also audit the Groups consolidated financial statements, has audited the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2018 and has issued an unqualified report thereon, which is included in this document.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting During the period covered by this report, there were no changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Statements regarding competitive position Statements referring to the competitive position of BAT and its subsidiaries are based on the Groups belief and best estimates.
In certain cases, such statements and figures rely on a range of sources, including investment analyst reports, independent market surveys, and the Groups own internal assessments of market share.
294 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
