Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts For further details on the impact on the Groups balance sheet of these 1 Accounting policies changes, refer to note 31.
The Group has adopted the hedge accounting Basis of preparation requirements of IFRS 9 prospectively from 1 January 2018.
All of the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Groups hedging relationships at the end of 2017 are considered to be accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS continuing hedge relationships on the adoption of IFRS 9. as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, @ In addition, with effect from 1 January 2018, the Group has changed IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and in accordance certain estimates of useful economic lives for cigarette-making with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to @ machinery across the Group, harmonising depreciation rates used companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in by the historic BAT Group and by Reynolds American Inc. from 14 certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The differences have years and 30 years, respectively, to a standard 20-year life.
The effect no impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements for the of the change is not material to the Group, and is estimated to be periods presented.
around 66 million for the year.
Reynolds American Inc. recognised an The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going impairment charge of 13 million in adopting the new estimate of concern basis under the historical cost convention except as described useful economic lives.
in the accounting policy below on financial instruments.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires With effect from 1 January 2018, the Group has adopted IFRS 15 management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The Group has revised prior reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the periods, as permitted by the Standard, to ensure comparability of disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
the income statement across the periods presented.
This Standard The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the accounting has changed the way the Group accounts for consideration policies below, together with the related notes to the accounts.
payable to customers, and requires certain payments to indirect The critical accounting estimates include: customers, previously shown as marketing expenses, to be shown as deductions from revenue.
This has reduced revenue for the year the review of asset values, especially indefinite life assets such as ended 31 December 2017 by 664 million 2016: 621 million, goodwill and certain trademarks and similar intangibles.
The key with a corresponding reduction in other operating expenses.
assumptions used in respect of the impairment testing are the In addition, due to the timing of the recognition of certain payments determination of cash-generating units, the budgeted cash flows to indirect customers, revenue and operating profit for the year of these units, the long-term growth rate for cash flow projections ended 31 December 2017 has been reduced by a further 64 million.
and the rate used to discount the cash flow projections.
These are For further details, refer to note 31. described in note 9: In addition, with effect from 1 January 2018, the Group has adopted the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with no revision of prior periods, as The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, as permitted by the Standard.
The cumulative impact of adopting the well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in other Standard, including the effect of tax entries, has been recognised as comprehensive income, involves judgements made in conjunction a restatement of opening reserves in 2018, and is 38 million, arising with independent actuaries.
These involve estimates about uncertain from the impairment of financial assets under the expected loss model future events based on the environment in different countries, required under IFRS 9, which accelerates recognition of potential including life expectancy of scheme members, salary and pension impairment on loans and trade receivables when compared with the increases, inflation, as well as discount rates and asset values at the incurred loss model under IAS 39 Financial Instruments.
The assumptions used by the Group and sensitivity analysis lifetime expected loss model has been used for balances arising are described in note 12: as a result of revenue recognition, as permitted by the Standard, by the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation applying a standard rate of provision on initial recognition of trade and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for liabilities debtors based upon the Groups historical experience of credit loss and charges are subject to uncertain future events, may extend modified by expectations of the future, and increasing this provision over several years and so the amount and or timing may differ from to take account of overdue receivables.
Applying the requirements current assumptions.
The accounting policy for taxation is explained of IFRS 9 has resulted in a decrease of trade and other receivables of below.
The recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together 45 million as at 1 January 2018. with a note of unrecognised amounts, are shown in note 13, and a IFRS 9 has also changed the classification and measurement of financial contingent tax asset is explained in note 6 b.
The category of available-for-sale investments where fair value liabilities and charges are as set out in note 21.
The accounting policy changes were deferred in reserves until disposal of the investment on contingent liabilities, which are not provided for, is set out below has been replaced with the category of financial assets at Fair Value and the contingent liabilities of the Group are explained in note 28. through Profit and Loss for most investments and the category of The application of these accounting policies to the payments made financial assets at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income and credits recognised under the Master Settlement Agreement by for qualifying equity investments.
The available-for-sale reserve at Reynolds American Inc. Reynolds is described in note 3 d : and 1 January 2018 has been reclassified as appropriate into retained the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising earnings.
In addition, certain loans and receivables which do not meet in a business combination and the allocation of the purchase the measurement tests for amortised cost classification under IFRS 9 consideration between the underlying net assets acquired, including have been reclassified as financial assets at Fair Value through Profit and intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair Loss at the same date.
Given the immateriality of the various investment values.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with the advice classes and to avoid clutter on the face of the balance sheet, the Group of independent valuation experts where appropriate.
The relevant will use the term investments held at fair value to refer to all of these transactions for 2018, 2017 and 2016 are described in note 24. financial assets both preand postthe adoption of IFRS 9.
@ Denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
128 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Foreign currencies and hyperinflationary territories 1 Accounting policies continued The functional currency of the Parent Company is sterling and this is The critical accounting judgements include: also the presentation currency of the Group.
The income and cash flow the definition of adjusting items, which are separately disclosed as statements of Group undertakings expressed in currencies other than memorandum information, is explained below and the impact of these sterling are translated to sterling using exchange rates applicable to on the calculation of adjusted earnings per share is described in note7: the dates of the underlying transactions.
Average rates of exchange in each year are used where the average rate approximates the relevant the determination as to whether control subsidiaries, joint control exchange rate at the date of the underlying transactions.
Assets and joint arrangements, or significant influence associates exists liabilities of Group undertakings are translated at the applicable rates in relation to the investments held by the Group.
This is assessed of exchange at the end of each year.
In territories where there are after taking into account the Groups ability to appoint Directors restrictions on the free access to foreign currency or multiple exchange to the entitys Board, its relative shareholding compared with rates, the applicable rates of exchange are regularly reviewed.
other shareholders, any significant contracts or arrangements with the entity or its other shareholders and other relevant facts and The differences between retained profits translated at average and closing circumstances: and rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates of exchange of overseas the review of applicable exchange rates for transactions with and net assets at the beginning of the year, and are presented as a separate translation of entities in territories where there are restrictions on the component of equity.
They are recognised in the income statement when free access to foreign currency, or multiple exchange rates.
the gain or loss on disposal of a Group undertaking is recognised.
Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience Foreign currency transactions are initially recognised in the functional and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the currency of each entity in the Group using the exchange rate ruling at circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the date the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of from these estimates and assumptions, which could affect the financial foreign currency assets and liabilities at year end rates of exchange are statements as the original estimates and assumptions are modified, as recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change.
as qualifying cash flow hedges, on intercompany net investment These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by loans and qualifying net investment hedges.
Foreign exchange gains the Board of Directors on 27 February 2019. or losses recognised in the income statement are included in profit from operations or net finance costs depending on the underlying Basis of consolidation transactions that gave rise to these exchange differences.
The consolidated financial information includes the financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary In addition, for hyperinflationary countries where the effect on undertakings, collectively the Group, together with the Groups the Group results would be significant, the financial statements in share of the results of its associates and joint arrangements.
local currency are adjusted to reflect the impact of local inflation prior to translation into sterling, in accordance with IAS 29 Financial A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
The Group controls Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies.
Where applicable, IAS 29 an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable requires all transactions to be indexed by an inflationary factor to the returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect balance sheet date, potentially leading to a monetary gain or loss on those returns through its power over the entity.
In addition, the Group assesses the carrying value of fixed Associates comprise investments in undertakings, which are not assets after indexation and applies IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, where subsidiary undertakings or joint arrangements, where the Groups appropriate, to ensure that the carrying value correctly reflects the interest in the equity capital is long term and over whose operating economic value of such assets.
and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence.
The results and balance sheets of operations in hyperinflationary They are accounted for using the equity method.
territories are translated at the period end rate.
In the case of Joint arrangements comprise contractual arrangements where two Venezuela, the Group uses an estimated exchange rate calculated by or more parties have joint control and where decisions regarding reflecting the development of the general price index since the Group the relevant activities of the entity require unanimous consent.
last achieved meaningful repatriation of dividends.
Joint operations are jointly-controlled arrangements where the Revenue parties to the arrangement have rights to the underlying assets and Revenue principally comprises sales of cigarettes, other tobacco obligations for the underlying liabilities relating to the arrangement.
products, and nicotine products, to external customers.
The Group accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, income Revenue excludes duty, excise and other taxes and is after deducting and expenses of any such arrangement.
Joint ventures comprise rebates, returns and other similar discounts and payments to direct and arrangements where the parties to the arrangement have rights to indirect customers.
Revenue is recognised when control of the goods the net assets of the arrangement.
They are accounted for using the is transferred to a customer: this is usually evidenced by a transfer of equity method.
the significant risks and rewards of ownership upon delivery to the customer, which in terms of timing is not materially different to the date of shipping.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 129 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it 1 Accounting policies continued relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly Retirement benefit costs in equity, in which case it is recognised in the statement of other The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution comprehensive income or the statement of changes in equity.
schemes including post-retirement healthcare schemes.
The net deficit The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a or surplus for each defined benefit pension scheme is calculated in number of taxes.
Liabilities or assets for these payments or recoveries accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits based on the present value are recognised at such time as an outcome becomes probable and of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair when the amount can reasonably be estimated.
value of the scheme assets adjusted, where appropriate, for any surplus restrictions or the effect of minimum funding requirements.
Goodwill For defined benefit schemes, the actuarial cost charged to profit from Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and any impairment of operations consists of current service cost, net interest on the net defined goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not benefit liability or asset, past service cost and the impact of any settlements.
Some benefits are provided through defined contribution schemes and Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
payments to these are charged as an expense as they fall due.
In respect of associates and joint ventures, goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associated company or joint Sharebased payments venture.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the compensation plans.
profit or loss on disposal.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at Intangible assets other than goodwill the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the The intangible assets shown on the Group balance sheet consist mainly equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting of trademarks and similar intangibles, including certain intellectual period, based on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually property, acquired by the Groups subsidiary undertakings and vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder computer software.
returns, the fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas earnings per share vesting conditions are reflected in the calculation Acquired trademarks and similar assets are carried at cost less of awards that will eventually vest over the vesting period.
For cashaccumulated amortisation and impairment.
Trademarks with indefinite settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the portion of the lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment.
services received is recognised at its current fair value determined at Other trademarks and similar assets are amortised on a straight-line each balance sheet date.
Fair value is measured by the use of the Blackbasis over their remaining useful lives, consistent with the pattern of Scholes option pricing model, except where vesting is dependent on economic benefits expected to be received, which do not exceed 20 market conditions when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is used.
Any impairments of trademarks are recognised in the income statement but increases in trademark values are not recognised.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
impairment, and, with the exception of global software solutions, is amortised on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from three years Research and development to five years.
Global software solutions are software assets designed Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it is to be implemented on a global basis and used as a standard solution incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to income in the year it by all of the operating companies in the Group.
These assets are is incurred, unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible amortised on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding ten years.
Assets to be capitalised as an intangible asset.
Property, plant and equipment Taxation Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on a straightdeferred taxation.
line basis to write off the assets over their useful economic life.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets classified as The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax held-for-sale.
Freehold and leasehold property are depreciated at rates laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in between 2.5% and 4% per annum, and plant and equipment at rates the countries where the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint between 3% and 25% per annum.
arrangements operate and generate taxable income.
As noted above, with effect from 1 January 2018, cigarette-making Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method for machinery within this category is depreciated at 5% per annum temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and previously, between 3% and 7% per annum as disclosed in note 3 b. liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used for taxation purposes.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent Capitalised interest that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, which the asset can be utilised.
construction or production of intangible assets or property, plant and Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted equipment that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax liability is settled.
130 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Financial instruments 1 Accounting policies continued The Groups business model for managing financial assets is set Leased assets out in the Group Treasury Manual which notes that the primary Assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards objective with regard to the management of cash and investments is of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases and to protect against the loss of principal.
Additionally, the Group aims: are included as part of property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease to maximise Group liquidity by concentrating cash at the Centre, assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of to align the maturity profile of external investments with that of the their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments forecast liquidity profile, to wherever practicable, match the interest at inception of the lease, then depreciated over the shorter of the rate profile of external investments to that of debt maturities or fixings, lease term and their estimated useful lives.
Leasing payments consist and to optimise the investment yield within the Groups investment of capital and finance charge elements and the finance element is parameters.
The majority of financial assets are held in order to collect charged to the income statement.
contractual cash flows typically cash and cash equivalents and loans Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income and other receivables but some assets typically investments are held statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Impairment of nonfinancial assets Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate that the instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such carrying amount of a cash-generating unit may not be recoverable.
Such assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are In addition, assets that have indefinite useful lives are tested annually expected to be realised or settled within 12 months after the balance for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the sheet date.
If not, they are classified as non-current.
carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified on initial recognition in accordance with the Groups business model as investments at fair A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets value through profit and loss, investments at fair value through OCI, that generates cash flows which are largely independent of the cash loans and receivables, or cash and cash equivalents and accounted for flows from other assets or groups of assets.
At the acquisition date, as follows: any goodwill acquired is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the Investments: These are non-derivative financial assets that cannot acquisition for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill.
be classified as loans and receivables or cash and cash equivalents.
Dividend and interest income on these investments are included Impairment of financial assets within finance income when the Groups right to receive payments Financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date, or whenever is established.
This category includes financial assets at fair value events indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
through profit and loss, financial assets at fair value through other With effect from 1 January 2018, loss allowances for expected comprehensive income and, prior to 1 January 2018, available-for credit losses on financial assets which are held at amortised cost are sale investments as defined by IAS 39. recognised on initial recognition of the underlying asset.
As permitted Loans and other receivables: These are non-derivative financial assets by IFRS 9, the loss allowance on trade receivables arising from the with fixed or determinable payments that are solely payments recognition of revenue under IFRS 15 are initially measured at an of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, amount equal to lifetime expected losses.
Allowances in respect of that are primarily held in order to collect contractual cash flows.
loans and other receivables are initially recognised at an amount equal These balances include trade and other receivables and are measured to 12-month expected credit losses.
Allowances are measured at an at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, and stated amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses where the credit net of allowances for credit losses.
risk on the receivables increases significantly after initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents include cash Prior to 1 January 2018, financial assets were reviewed for impairment in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short-term at each balance sheet date, or whenever events indicated that the highly liquid investments including investments in certain money carrying amount might not be recoverable.
Cash equivalents normally comprise instruments with Inventories maturities of three months or less at date of acquisition.
In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in the liabilities Cost is based on the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring section on the balance sheet.
inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, which will include raw materials, direct labour and overheads, where Fair values for quoted investments are based on observable market appropriate.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs prices.
If there is no active market for a financial asset, the fair value to completion and sale.
Tobacco inventories which have an operating is established by using valuation techniques principally involving cycle that exceeds 12 months are classified as current assets, consistent discounted cash flow analysis.
Non-derivative financial liabilities, including borrowings and trade payables, are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
As shown in note 20, certain borrowings are subject to fair value hedges, as defined below.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 131 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued The Groups accounting policies for financial instruments prior to 1 Accounting policies continued the adoption of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018, were as set out above, Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, and except for the following: non-derivative financial assets were classified subsequently measured, at fair value, which includes accrued interest on initial recognition as available-for-sale investments, loans and receivable and payable where relevant.
Changes in their fair values are receivables or cash and cash equivalents.
Available-for-sale investments recognised as follows: were non-derivative financial assets that could not be classified for derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the changes as loans and receivables or cash and cash equivalents.
Apart from in their fair values are recognised directly in other comprehensive available-for-sale investments, non-derivative financial assets were income, to the extent that they are effective, with the ineffective stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject portion being recognised in the income statement.
Where the to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
hedged item results in a non-financial asset, the accumulated gains These estimates for irrecoverable amounts were recognised when there and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, are was objective evidence that the full amount receivable would not be included in the initial carrying value of the asset basis adjustment collected according to the original terms of the asset.
Available-for and recognised in the income statement in the same periods as the sale investments were stated at fair value, with changes in fair value hedged item.
Where the underlying transaction does not result in being recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When such such an asset, the accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to the investments were derecognised e. g. through disposal or became income statement in the same periods as the hedged item: impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, were reclassified to the income for derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges, the carrying statement within finance income.
Dividend and interest income on value of the hedged item is adjusted for the fair value changes available-for-sale investments were included within finance income attributable to the risk being hedged, with the corresponding entry when the Groups right to receive payments was established.
being made in the income statement.
The changes in fair value of these derivatives are also recognised in the income statement: Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised for derivatives that are designated as hedges of net investments in as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which foreign operations, the changes in their fair values are recognised they are approved by shareholders final dividends or confirmed by directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they the Directors interim dividends.
With effect from 1 January 2018, the are effective, with the ineffective portion being recognised in the Company has moved to four interim quarterly dividend payments.
Where non-derivatives such as foreign currency borrowings are designated as net investment hedges, the relevant Segmental analysis exchange differences are similarly recognised.
The accumulated gains The Group is organised and managed on the basis of its geographic and losses are reclassified to the income statement when the foreign regions.
These are the reportable segments for the Group as they operation is disposed of: and form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not the basis used by the chief operating decision maker, identified designated as hedges, the changes in their fair values are recognised as the Management Board, for assessing performance and in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The Group is primarily a single product business providing cigarettes In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to and other tobacco products.
While the Group has clearly differentiated document prospectively the economic relationship between the item brands, global segmentation between a wide portfolio of brands is not being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required part of the regular internally reported financial information.
The results to demonstrate an assessment of the economic relationship between of Next Generation Products are reported as part of the results of each the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the geographic region, and are not currently material to the Group.
hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness The prices agreed between Group companies for intra-group sales of testing is re-performed periodically to ensure that the hedge has materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions, remained, and is expected to remain, highly effective.
services and fees, are based on normal commercial practices which would Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is apply between independent businesses.
Royalty income, less related derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer qualifies expenditure, is included in the region in which the licensor is based.
Where the hedged item is a highly probable Adjusting items forecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain in equity Adjusting items are significant items of income or expense in until the transaction takes place, when they are reclassified to the revenue, profit from operations, net finance costs, taxation and income statement in the same manner as for cash flow hedges as the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint described above.
When a hedged future transaction is no longer ventures which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are expected to occur, any related gains and losses, previously recognised relevant to an understanding of the Groups underlying financial in other comprehensive income, are immediately reclassified to the performance because of their size, nature or incidence.
and quantifying adjusting items, the Group consistently applies a Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income statement are policy that defines criteria that are required to be met for an item to either reflected in arriving at profit from operations if the hedged item be classified as adjusting.
These items are separately disclosed in the is similarly reflected or in finance costs.
segmental analyses or in the notes to the accounts as appropriate.
All of the Groups hedging relationships at the end of 2017 are considered to be continuing hedge relationships on the adoption of IFRS 9.
132 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Going forward, the Group will also adopt several practical expedients 1 Accounting policies continued under the Standard including not applying the requirements of IFRS The Group believes that these items are useful to users of the Group 16 to leases of intangible assets, applying the portfolio approach financial statements in helping them to understand the underlying where appropriate to do so, and not applying the recognition and business performance and are used to derive the Groups principal measurement requirements of IFRS 16 to short-term leases leases of non-GAAP measures of adjusted revenue, adjusted profit from less than 12 months maximum duration and to leases of low-value operations, adjusted diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow assets.
Except for property-related leases, non-lease components will conversion ratio and adjusted cash from operations, all of which are not be separated from lease components.
The Group will continue to before the impact of adjusting items and which are reconciled from report recognised assets and liabilities under leases within property, revenue, profit from operations, diluted earnings per share, cash plant and equipment and borrowings respectively rather than show conversion ratio and net cash generated from operating activities.
these as separate line items on the face of the balance sheet.
Provisions Had the Standard been applied to the 2018 results, profit for the Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive obligation year would have been 11 million lower and non-current assets and as a result of a past event exists at the balance sheet date, it is probable liabilities would have each been increased by 564 million at the start that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the of the year.
At the end of the year, non-current assets would have been obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of increased by 551 million and non-current liabilities by 558 million.
The anticipated impact of the new Standard to the Groups balance Contingent liabilities and contingent assets sheet at 1 January 2019, and a reconciliation to reported leasing Subsidiaries and associate companies are defendants in tobacco-related commitments, is shown in note 31. and other litigation.
Provision for this litigation including legal costs IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax treatments is made at such time as an unfavourable outcome becomes probable This interpretation was finalised and published in June 2017 with and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
a mandatory effective date of implementation of 1 January 2019.
Contingent assets are possible assets whose existence will only be The Interpretation clarifies how to apply the recognition and confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the entity measurement requirements in IAS 12 when there is uncertainty over and are not recognised as assets until the realisation of income is income tax treatments.
In particular, the Interpretation addresses virtually certain.
whether uncertain tax treatments should be considered separately or together with one or more other uncertain tax treatments, and Where a provision has not been recognised, the Group records its addresses the assumptions an entity makes about how probable it external legal fees and other external defence costs for tobacco-related is that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment.
and other litigation as these costs are incurred.
The impact on the Groups profit and equity is not expected to Repurchase of share capital be material.
When share capital is repurchased the amount of consideration paid, Other interpretations and revisions including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction In addition, a number of other interpretations and revisions to from equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares existing standards have been issued which will be applicable to purchased for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified as the Groups financial statements in future years, but will not have a treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
material effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures in the Future changes to accounting policies financial statements.
Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable to the Group financial statements in future years.
Set out below are those which are considered to be most relevant to the Group.
IFRS 16 Leases This Standard was finalised and published in January 2016 with a mandatory effective date of implementation of 1 January 2019.
In adopting IFRS 16, the Group will apply the modified retrospective approach consistently across the Group, with no restatement of prior periods, as permitted by the Standard.
On the initial implementation of the Standard, virtually all previously recognised operating leases will be capitalised as right-to-use assets and financial liabilities will be recognised at the same initial value.
The Group will take advantage of certain practical expedients available under the Standard, including grandfathering previously recognised lease arrangements such that contracts will not be reassessed at the implementation date as to whether they are, or contain, a lease, and leases previously classified as finance leases under IAS 17 Leases will remain capitalised on the adoption of IFRS 16.
In addition, as part of the implementation, the Group will apply a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics, will assess whether a lease is onerous prior to applying the Standard, will apply hindsight in determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease, and will not apply the capitalisation requirements of the Standard to leases for which the lease term ends within 12 months of the date of initial application.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 133
