Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts For further details on the impact on the Groups balance sheet of these 1 Accounting policies changes, refer to note 31.
The Group has adopted the hedge accounting Basis of preparation requirements of IFRS 9 prospectively from 1 January 2018.
All of the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Groups hedging relationships at the end of 2017 are considered to be accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS continuing hedge relationships on the adoption of IFRS 9. as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, @ In addition, with effect from 1 January 2018, the Group has changed IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and in accordance certain estimates of useful economic lives for cigarette-making with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to @ machinery across the Group, harmonising depreciation rates used companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in by the historic BAT Group and by Reynolds American Inc. from 14 certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The differences have years and 30 years, respectively, to a standard 20-year life.
The effect no impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements for the of the change is not material to the Group, and is estimated to be periods presented.
around 66 million for the year.
Reynolds American Inc. recognised an The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going impairment charge of 13 million in adopting the new estimate of concern basis under the historical cost convention except as described useful economic lives.
in the accounting policy below on financial instruments.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires With effect from 1 January 2018, the Group has adopted IFRS 15 management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The Group has revised prior reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the periods, as permitted by the Standard, to ensure comparability of disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
the income statement across the periods presented.
This Standard The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the accounting has changed the way the Group accounts for consideration policies below, together with the related notes to the accounts.
payable to customers, and requires certain payments to indirect The critical accounting estimates include: customers, previously shown as marketing expenses, to be shown as deductions from revenue.
This has reduced revenue for the year the review of asset values, especially indefinite life assets such as ended 31 December 2017 by 664 million 2016: 621 million, goodwill and certain trademarks and similar intangibles.
The key with a corresponding reduction in other operating expenses.
assumptions used in respect of the impairment testing are the In addition, due to the timing of the recognition of certain payments determination of cash-generating units, the budgeted cash flows to indirect customers, revenue and operating profit for the year of these units, the long-term growth rate for cash flow projections ended 31 December 2017 has been reduced by a further 64 million.
and the rate used to discount the cash flow projections.
These are For further details, refer to note 31. described in note 9: In addition, with effect from 1 January 2018, the Group has adopted the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with no revision of prior periods, as The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, as permitted by the Standard.
The cumulative impact of adopting the well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in other Standard, including the effect of tax entries, has been recognised as comprehensive income, involves judgements made in conjunction a restatement of opening reserves in 2018, and is 38 million, arising with independent actuaries.
These involve estimates about uncertain from the impairment of financial assets under the expected loss model future events based on the environment in different countries, required under IFRS 9, which accelerates recognition of potential including life expectancy of scheme members, salary and pension impairment on loans and trade receivables when compared with the increases, inflation, as well as discount rates and asset values at the incurred loss model under IAS 39 Financial Instruments.
The assumptions used by the Group and sensitivity analysis lifetime expected loss model has been used for balances arising are described in note 12: as a result of revenue recognition, as permitted by the Standard, by the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation applying a standard rate of provision on initial recognition of trade and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for liabilities debtors based upon the Groups historical experience of credit loss and charges are subject to uncertain future events, may extend modified by expectations of the future, and increasing this provision over several years and so the amount and or timing may differ from to take account of overdue receivables.
Applying the requirements current assumptions.
The accounting policy for taxation is explained of IFRS 9 has resulted in a decrease of trade and other receivables of below.
The recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together 45 million as at 1 January 2018. with a note of unrecognised amounts, are shown in note 13, and a IFRS 9 has also changed the classification and measurement of financial contingent tax asset is explained in note 6 b.
The category of available-for-sale investments where fair value liabilities and charges are as set out in note 21.
The accounting policy changes were deferred in reserves until disposal of the investment on contingent liabilities, which are not provided for, is set out below has been replaced with the category of financial assets at Fair Value and the contingent liabilities of the Group are explained in note 28. through Profit and Loss for most investments and the category of The application of these accounting policies to the payments made financial assets at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income and credits recognised under the Master Settlement Agreement by for qualifying equity investments.
The available-for-sale reserve at Reynolds American Inc. Reynolds is described in note 3 d : and 1 January 2018 has been reclassified as appropriate into retained the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising earnings.
In addition, certain loans and receivables which do not meet in a business combination and the allocation of the purchase the measurement tests for amortised cost classification under IFRS 9 consideration between the underlying net assets acquired, including have been reclassified as financial assets at Fair Value through Profit and intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair Loss at the same date.
Given the immateriality of the various investment values.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with the advice classes and to avoid clutter on the face of the balance sheet, the Group of independent valuation experts where appropriate.
The relevant will use the term investments held at fair value to refer to all of these transactions for 2018, 2017 and 2016 are described in note 24. financial assets both preand postthe adoption of IFRS 9.
@ Denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
128 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
