Financial Statements @ Notes on the Accounts Taxation 1 Accounting policies Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with Basis of accounting deferred taxation.
Income tax charges, where applicable, are calculated The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that Framework FRS 101. it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the the asset can be utilised.
recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS, but makes or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected amendments where necessary in order to comply with Companies Act to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax 2006 and where advantage of certain disclosure exemptions available liability is settled.
As required under IAS 12 Income Taxes deferred tax under FRS 101 have been taken, including those relating to: assets and liabilities are not discounted.
a cash flow statement and related notes: Investments in Group companies comparative period reconciliations: Investments in Group companies are stated at cost, together with subsequent capital contributions, less provisions for any impairment in disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly-owned subsidiaries: value, where appropriate.
disclosures in respect of capital management: Dividends the effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs: and Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised disclosures in respect of the compensation of key as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the management personnel.
dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders final dividends or confirmed by the Directors interim dividends.
As the consolidated financial statements of the Group include With effect from 1 January 2018, the Company has moved to four equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions interim quarterly dividend payments.
under FRS 101 available in respect of disclosures under IFRS 2 related to group settled share-based payments.
Dividend income is recognised at the same time as the paying company recognises the liability to pay a dividend.
With effect from 1 January 2018, the Company has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
The cumulative impact of adopting IFRS 9, Repurchase of share capital including the effect of tax entries, has been recognised as a restatement When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, of opening reserves in 2018, and is 42 million arising from the including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction impairment of financial assets under the expected loss model.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified as The preparation of the financial statements requires the Directors to treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of Related parties contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
The key The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 101 estimates and assumptions are set out in the accounting policies below, from disclosing transactions with related parties that are wholly-owned together with the related Notes on the Accounts.
subsidiaries of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Group.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Financial instruments profit and loss of the Company has not been presented in these Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the financial statements.
Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such London Stock Exchange and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and provisions.
Such assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
In addition, the Companys expected to be realised or settled within 12 months after the balance shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of sheet date.
If not, they are classified as non-current.
Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
Foreign currencies The Companys financial assets are held in order to collect contractual The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
Transactions arising cash flows and are subsequently carried at amortised cost.
in currencies other than sterling are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities expressed in Non-derivative financial liabilities, including creditors, are subsequently currencies other than sterling are translated at rates of exchange ruling carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
at the end of the financial year.
All exchange differences are taken to Financial guarantees are initially recorded at fair value, and the profit and loss account in the year.
subsequently carried at this fair value less accumulated amortisation.
Revenue Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, and Revenue and other income are included in the profit and loss account subsequently measured, at fair value, which includes accrued interest when all contractual or other applicable conditions for recognition receivable and payable where relevant.
Changes in their fair values are have been met.
From 1 January 2018, as permitted by IFRS 9, a recognised in profit and loss.
provisions matrix for lifetime expected losses is used for receivables balances arising from the recognition of revenue.
Prior to this, allowances were made for bad and doubtful debts, as appropriate.
@ denotes section, including accompanying text and tables, that does not form part of BATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
248 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
