Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING This Document is Important and Requires your Immediate Attention To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as If you are in any doubt about the action to take, you should consult your Special Resolutions: stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent 11.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 10 above, the Directors of professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets the Company be and are hereby generally authorised and empowered Act 2000 as amended without delay.
If you have sold or transferred pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the all of your Ordinary Shares in the capital of British Empire Trust plc the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act Company and, as a result, no longer hold any Ordinary Shares in the including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any Company, please send this document and the accompanying form of securities into, Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the person Company Ordinary Shares and the sale of Ordinary Shares held through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the by the Company in treasury wholly for cash pursuant to any existing purchaser or transferee.
authority given in accordance with Section 551 of the Act, as if Section Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Twenty-Ninth Annual 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this General Meeting of British Empire Trust plc will be held at 11 Cavendish power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: Square, London W1G 0AN at 11.00am on Wednesday, 19 December a in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders 2018 to consider the following business: of Ordinary Shares on the register of members of the Company on a Ordinary Business fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their 1.
To receive and adopt the financial statements of the Company for the respective holdings of Ordinary Shares but subject to such exclusions or financial year ended 30 September 2018 together with the Strategic other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient Report and the Reports of the Directors and Auditor.
in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of, or the requirements of, 2.
To approve a final ordinary dividend of 11.0p per Ordinary Share.
any territory or any regulatory or governmental body or authority or 3.
To elect Anja Balfour as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Susan Noble as a Director of the Company.
b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, equating to a maximum of 5,572,114 Ordinary Shares being approximately 5% 5.
To re-elect Nigel Rich as a Director of the Company.
of the equity share capital in issue as at 7 November 2018, 6.
To re-elect Calum Thomson as a Director of the Company.
and the authority hereby granted shall expire on the date which is 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 7.
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys Auditor.
the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save 8.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement Auditors remuneration.
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities and sell 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report Treasury Shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as for the year ended 30 September 2018. if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: 10.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all of the powers of the Company to allot Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into Ordinary Shares in the Company up to a maximum of 37,147,428 Ordinary Shares provided that such authority shall expire on the date which is 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require Ordinary Shares to be allotted, or rights to be granted, after such expiry and the Directors may allot Ordinary Shares, or grant such rights, in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired: and all unexercised authorities previously granted to the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares be and are hereby revoked.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 83 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 12.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares either for cancellation or to hold as Treasury Shares within the meaning of Section 724 of the Act provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 16,705,198: b the Directors be authorised to determine at their discretion that any Ordinary Shares purchased be cancelled or held by the Company as Treasury Shares: c the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 10p exclusive of associated expenses : d the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be the higher of: i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the relevant share is contracted to be purchased exclusive of associated expenses : and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and e unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date which is 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the Company may prior to such expiry enter into a contract or arrangement to purchase Ordinary Shares under this authority which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract or arrangement as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
THAT a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By Order of the Board Link Company Matters Limited Corporate Secretary Registered Office: Beaufort House 51 New North Road Exeter, Devon EX4 4EP 9 November 2018 84 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information Notes 4.
Appointment of Proxy by Joint Shareholders 1.
Attending the AGM in Person In the case of joint shareholders, where more than one of the joint If you wish to attend the AGM in person, you should sign the admission shareholders purports to appoint one or more proxies, only the purported card enclosed with this document and hand it to the Companys Registrars appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint shareholders appear in the Companys register of members in respect 2.
Appointment of Proxy of the joint shareholding, with the first named being the most senior.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
Nominated Persons A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the be a shareholder of the Company.
shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
Appointment of Proxy Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
Where two or more valid the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in relation The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment to the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons as such rights can only replacing and revoking the other or others.
If the Company is unable to be exercised by registered shareholders of the Company.
determine which is last sent, the one which is last received shall be so treated.
If the Company is unable to determine either which is last sent or 6.
Entitlement to Attend and Vote which is last received, none of such appointments shall be treated as valid To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of the in respect of that share.
The termination of the authority of a person to act determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders as proxy must be notified to the Company in writing.
must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6.30pm To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must on Monday, 17 December 2018 or, in the event of any adjournment, be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand 6.30pm on the date which is two business days before the time of the at the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA by 11.00am on Monday, deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to 17 December 2018. attend and vote at the meeting.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any 7.
Issued Share Capital and Total Voting Rights CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 8 below will not As at 7 November 2018, the Companys issued share capital consisted prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she of 129,526,165 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each, of which wishes to do so.
If you require additional proxy forms, please contact 18,083,880 were in treasury.
Therefore, the voting rights in the Company the Registrars helpline on 0371 384 2490 44 121 415 7047 from outside as at 7 November 2018 equate to a total of 111,442,285 votes.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
CREST Members Alternatively, you may, if you wish, register the appointment of a proxy CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the electronically by logging on to www.
To use this service CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the you will need your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members printed on the accompanying form of proxy.
Full details of the procedure or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who are given on the website.
have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action To be valid, the appointment of a proxy electronically must be made by on their behalf.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 85 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor not later than the via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.00am on Monday, 2006 to publish on a website.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the 11.
Questions and Answers CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST However, where appropriate, the Chairman may offer to provide an member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal answer to a question after the conclusion of the AGM.
member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such 12.
Information on the Companys Website action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, of this notice of meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting members resolutions or members matters of business received by the system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 13.
Display Documents circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities None of the Directors has a contract of service with the Company.
Copies of the Letters of Appointment of the Directors will be available for You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business of Meeting or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to hours on any weekday except weekends and public holidays until the communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting for a period of 15 expressly stated.
minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Corporate Members Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
To be able to attend and vote at the meeting, corporate representatives will be required to produce, prior to their entry to the meeting, evidence satisfactory to the Company of their appointment.
Rights to Publish Statements under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys financial statements including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual financial statements and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
86 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018
