NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Basis of preparation, significant accounting disposals.
The changes introduced by IFRS 15 will result in policies and accounting judgements minimal qualitative changes to the revenue disclosure and will The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 not have a quantitative impact on the consolidated financial have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the statements of the Group.
revaluation of properties, investments held for trading and derivatives.
The financial statements have also been prepared IFRS 16 Leases effective year ending 31 March 2020 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards For lessees, IFRS 16 will result in almost all operating leases IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and interpretations being brought on balance sheet, as the distinction between issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC, and operating and finance leases will be removed.
The accounting therefore comply with article 4 of the EU IAS regulation, and in for lessors will however not significantly change.
As a result, accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In the current financial on adoption of the new standard, these changes will have year the Group has adopted a number of minor amendments to an immaterial impact on the consolidated financial statements standards effective in the year issued by the IASB and endorsed of the Group.
by the EU, none of which have had a material impact on the Group.
The accounting policies used are otherwise consistent with those Going concern contained in the Groups previous Annual Report and Accounts The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis for the year ended 31 March 2017. as explained in the corporate governance section on page 51.
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates including funds interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective for the The consolidated accounts include the accounts of The British Land current accounting period.
None of these are expected to have a Company PLC and all subsidiaries entities controlled by British material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Control is assumed where British Land is exposed, or has the rights, to variable returns from its involvement with investees Certain standards which could be expected to have an impact on the and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over consolidated financial statements are discussed in further detail those investees.
The Group conducted an impact assessment of the new standards which are effective next year based on the Groups current The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates acquired or activities and have quantified the impact.
The results of the impact disposed of during the year are included from the effective date of assessment confirm that the new standards will lead to limited acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
Accounting policies changes to presentation and disclosure and will have an immaterial of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates which differ from Group impact on the consolidated financial statements.
accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective year ending March 2019 Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition The new standard addresses the classification and measurement method.
Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations of financial assets.
over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities The alignment of the classification and measurement model acquired and resulting deferred tax thereon is recognised as under IFRS 9 will result in changes in the classification of all goodwill.
Any discount received is credited to the income statement financial assets excluding derivatives.
These changes will not in the period of acquisition.
have a quantitative impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 9 introduces an expected credit loss model, requiring an All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses expected credit loss to be recognised on all financial assets held areeliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures and associates, at amortised cost.
The quantitative impact based on balances as including funds, are accounted for under the equity method, at 31 March 2018 will result in the recognition of an expected whereby the consolidated balance sheet incorporates the Groups credit loss of 5m, with a corresponding reduction in financial share investors share of the net assets of its joint ventures and assets held at amortised cost of 5m.
The Group has previously associates.
The consolidated income statement incorporates the provided for a materially similar balance against trade and other Groups share of joint venture and associate profits after tax.
Their receivables and therefore the resulting reclassification of profits include revaluation movements on investment properties.
existing provisions will not have amaterial impact on the net assets of the Group.
Distributions and other receivables from joint ventures and IFRS 9 introduces changes to the qualifying criteria for hedge associates including funds are classed as cash flows from accounting and expands the financial and non-financial operating activities, except where they relate to a cash flow arising instruments which may be designated as hedged items and from a capital transaction, such as a property or investment hedging instruments in order to align hedge accounting with disposal.
In this case they are classed as cash flows from business strategy.
The changes to hedge accounting under IFRS 9 investing activities.
will result in qualitative enhancements to the interest rate and foreign currency risk management disclosures.
The changes Properties introduced by IFRS 9 will not have a quantitative impact on the Properties are externally valued on the basis of fair value at the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Investment and owner-occupied properties are recorded at valuation whereas trading properties are stated at the IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers effective year lower of cost and net realisable value.
ending 31 March 2019 The new standard combines a number of previous standards, Any surplus or deficit arising on revaluing investment properties is setting out a five step model for the recognition of revenue and recognised in the capital and other column of the income statement.
establishing principles for reporting useful information to users offinancial statements about the nature, timing and uncertainty Any surplus arising on revaluing owner-occupied properties above ofrevenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with cost is recognised in other comprehensive income, and any deficit customers.
The new standard does not apply to rental income, arising in revaluation below cost for owner-occupied and trading which is in the scope of IAS 17, but does apply to service charge properties is recognised in the capital and other column of the income, management and performance fees and trading property income statement.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Financial statements NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED The cost of properties in the course of development includes As defined by IAS 39, cash flow and fair value hedges are initially attributable interest and other associated outgoings including recognised at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are attributable development personnel costs.
Interest is calculated on entered into, and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Changes the development expenditure by reference to specific borrowings, in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as where relevant, and otherwise on the weighted average interest rate effective cash flow hedges are recognised directly through other of British Land Company PLC borrowings.
Interest is not capitalised comprehensive income as a movement in the hedging and translation where no development activity is taking place.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated be treated as a development property on practical completion.
and qualify as effective fair value hedges are recorded in the capital and other column of the income statement, along with any changes Investment property disposals are recognised on completion.
in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged Profits and losses arising are recognised through the capital and risk.
Any ineffective portion of all derivatives is recognised in the other column of the income statement.
The profit on disposal is capital and other column of the income statement.
Changes in determined as the difference between the net sales proceeds and thefair value of derivatives that are not in a designated hedging the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the relationship under IAS 39 are recorded directly in the capital and accounting period plus capital expenditure in the period.
other column of the income statement.
These derivatives are carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Trading properties are initially recognised at cost less impairment, and trading property disposals are recognised in line with the Cash equivalents are limited to instruments with a maturity of less revenue policies outlined below.
Where investment properties are appropriated to trading properties, Held for sale assets they are transferred at market value.
If properties held for trading are Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is appropriated to investment properties, they are transferred at book expected to be recovered or settled principally through sale rather value.
In determining whether leases and related properties represent than through continuing use.
The asset must be available for operating or finance leases, consideration is given to whether the immediate sale and the sale must be highly probable within one year tenant or landlord bears the risks and rewards of ownership.
Held for sale assets are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses Financial assets and liabilities on initial classification as held for sale and gains or losses on Trade debtors and creditors are initially recognised at fair value subsequent re-measurements are included in the capital and other and subsequently measured at amortised cost and discounted column of the income statement.
Revenue Other investments include loans and receivables held at amortised Revenue comprises rental income and surrender premia, service cost and investments held for trading classified as fair value through charge income, management and performance fees and proceeds profit or loss.
Amortised cost of loans and receivables is measured from the sale of trading properties.
using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest is recognised by applying the effective interest rate.
Investments held Rental income, including fixed rental uplifts, from investment for trading are initially recorded at fair value and are subsequently property leased out under an operating lease is recognised as externally valued on the same basis at the balance sheet date.
Any revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease surplus or deficit arising on revaluing investments held for trading is incentives, such as rent-free periods and cash contributions to recognised in the capital and other column of the income statement.
tenant fit-out, are recognised on the same straight-line basis being an integral part of the net consideration for the use of the investment Where an investment property is held under a head lease, the head property.
Any rent adjustments based on open market estimated lease is initially recognised as an asset, being the sum of the premium rental values are recognised, based on management estimates, from paid on acquisition plus the present value of minimum ground rent the rent review date in relation to unsettled rent reviews.
The corresponding rent liability to the head leaseholder rents, being those lease payments that are not fixed at the inception is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
of the lease, including for example turnover rents, are recognised in the period in which they are earned.
Debt instruments are stated at their net proceeds on issue.
Finance charges including premia payable on settlement or redemption and Surrender premia for the early determination of a lease are direct issue costs are spread over the period to redemption, using recognised as revenue immediately upon receipt, net of dilapidations the effective interest method.
Exceptional finance charges incurred and non-recoverable outgoings relating to the lease concerned.
due to early redemption including premiums are recognised in the Service charge income is recognised as revenue in the period to income statement when they occur.
Convertible bonds are designated as fair value through profit or loss Management and performance fees receivable are recognised as and so are initially recognised at fair value with all subsequent gains revenue in the period to which they relate.
Performance fees are and losses, including the write-off of issue costs, recognised in the recognised at the end of the performance period when the fee capital and other column of the income statement as a component of amount can be estimated reliably and it is virtually certain that the net financing costs.
The interest charge in respect of the coupon rate fee will be received.
on the bonds has been recognised within the underlying component of net financing costs on an accruals basis.
Proceeds from the sale of trading properties are recognised when therisks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser.
This generally occurs on completion.
Proceeds from the sale of trading properties are recognised as revenue in the capital and other column of the income statement.
All other revenue described above is recognised in the underlying column of the income statement.
110 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Taxation The key areas of accounting judgement are: Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted REIT status: British Land is a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT atthe balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from net profit and does not pay tax on its property income or gains on property asreported in the income statement because it excludes items sales, provided that at least 90% of the Groups property income is ofincome or expense that are not taxable or tax deductible.
distributed as a dividend to shareholders, which becomes taxable in their hands.
In addition, the Group has to meet certain conditions Deferred tax is provided on items that may become taxable in the such as ensuring the property rental business represents more than future, or which may be used to offset against taxable profits in the 75% of total profits and assets.
Any potential or proposed changes future, on the temporary differences between the carrying amounts to the REIT legislation are monitored and discussed with HMRC.
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes, and the It is managements intention that the Group will continue as a REIT amounts used for taxation purposes on an undiscounted basis.
Onbusiness combinations, the deferred tax effect of fair value adjustments is incorporated in the consolidated balance sheet.
Accounting for joint ventures and funds: In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, Employee costs and IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities an assessment The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is required to determine the degree of control or influence the Group is determined at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line exercises and the form of any control to ensure that the financial basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of statement treatment is appropriate.
The assessment undertaken by shares or options that will eventually vest.
In the case of options management includes a consideration of the structure, legal form, granted, fair value is measured by a Black-Scholes pricing model.
contractual terms and other facts and circumstances in relation to the entity in question, prior to reaching a conclusion.
This assessment Defined benefit pension scheme assets are measured using fair is updated annually and there have been no changes in the judgement values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected reached in relation to the degree of control the Group exercises unit credit method and discounted at the rate of return of a high within the current or prior year.
Group shares in joint ventures and quality corporate bond of equivalent term to the scheme liabilities.
funds resulting from this process are disclosed in note 11 to the The net surplus where recoverable by the Group or deficit is financial statements.
recognised in full in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to the present value of Interest in the Groups joint ventures is commonly driven by the available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
terms of the partnership agreements which ensure that control is shared between the partners.
All significant joint venture arrangements The current service cost and gains and losses on settlement and of the Group are held in structures in which the Group has 50% of the curtailments are charged to operating profit.
Actuarial gains and voting rights.
Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are method, whereby the consolidated balance sheet incorporates the presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The consolidated income statement incorporates the Groups share Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are of joint venture and associate profits after tax.
expensed on the basis of the contracted annual contribution.
Accounting for transactions: Property transactions are complex in Accounting judgements and estimates nature and can be material to the financial statements.
Judgements In applying the Groups accounting policies, the Directors are made in relation to transactions include whether an acquisition is a required to make judgements and estimates that affect the business combination or an asset: whether held for sale criteria have financial statements.
been met for transactions not yet completed: and accounting for transaction costs and contingent consideration.
Management Significant areas of estimation are: consider each transaction separately in order to determine the most appropriate accounting treatment, and, when considered necessary, Valuation of properties and investments held for trading: seek independent advice.
The Group uses external professional valuers to determine the relevant amounts.
The primary source of evidence for property valuations should be recent, comparable market transactions on an arms-length basis.
However, valuations of the Groups property portfolio and investments held for trading are inherently subjective, as they are made on the basis of assumptions made by the valuers which may not prove to be accurate.
Other less significant areas of estimation include the valuation of fixed rate debt and interest rate derivatives, the determination of share-based payment expense, the actuarial assumptions used in calculating the Groups retirement benefit obligations and taxation provisions.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111
