NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1 Basis of preparation, significant accounting disposals.
The changes introduced by IFRS 15 will result in policies and accounting judgements minimal qualitative changes to the revenue disclosure and will The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 not have a quantitative impact on the consolidated financial have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the statements of the Group.
revaluation of properties, investments held for trading and derivatives.
The financial statements have also been prepared IFRS 16 Leases effective year ending 31 March 2020 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards For lessees, IFRS 16 will result in almost all operating leases IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and interpretations being brought on balance sheet, as the distinction between issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC, and operating and finance leases will be removed.
The accounting therefore comply with article 4 of the EU IAS regulation, and in for lessors will however not significantly change.
As a result, accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In the current financial on adoption of the new standard, these changes will have year the Group has adopted a number of minor amendments to an immaterial impact on the consolidated financial statements standards effective in the year issued by the IASB and endorsed of the Group.
by the EU, none of which have had a material impact on the Group.
The accounting policies used are otherwise consistent with those Going concern contained in the Groups previous Annual Report and Accounts The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis for the year ended 31 March 2017. as explained in the corporate governance section on page 51.
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates including funds interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective for the The consolidated accounts include the accounts of The British Land current accounting period.
None of these are expected to have a Company PLC and all subsidiaries entities controlled by British material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Control is assumed where British Land is exposed, or has the rights, to variable returns from its involvement with investees Certain standards which could be expected to have an impact on the and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over consolidated financial statements are discussed in further detail those investees.
The Group conducted an impact assessment of the new standards which are effective next year based on the Groups current The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates acquired or activities and have quantified the impact.
The results of the impact disposed of during the year are included from the effective date of assessment confirm that the new standards will lead to limited acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
Accounting policies changes to presentation and disclosure and will have an immaterial of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates which differ from Group impact on the consolidated financial statements.
accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective year ending March 2019 Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition The new standard addresses the classification and measurement method.
Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations of financial assets.
over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities The alignment of the classification and measurement model acquired and resulting deferred tax thereon is recognised as under IFRS 9 will result in changes in the classification of all goodwill.
Any discount received is credited to the income statement financial assets excluding derivatives.
These changes will not in the period of acquisition.
have a quantitative impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 9 introduces an expected credit loss model, requiring an All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses expected credit loss to be recognised on all financial assets held areeliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures and associates, at amortised cost.
The quantitative impact based on balances as including funds, are accounted for under the equity method, at 31 March 2018 will result in the recognition of an expected whereby the consolidated balance sheet incorporates the Groups credit loss of 5m, with a corresponding reduction in financial share investors share of the net assets of its joint ventures and assets held at amortised cost of 5m.
The Group has previously associates.
The consolidated income statement incorporates the provided for a materially similar balance against trade and other Groups share of joint venture and associate profits after tax.
Their receivables and therefore the resulting reclassification of profits include revaluation movements on investment properties.
existing provisions will not have amaterial impact on the net assets of the Group.
Distributions and other receivables from joint ventures and IFRS 9 introduces changes to the qualifying criteria for hedge associates including funds are classed as cash flows from accounting and expands the financial and non-financial operating activities, except where they relate to a cash flow arising instruments which may be designated as hedged items and from a capital transaction, such as a property or investment hedging instruments in order to align hedge accounting with disposal.
In this case they are classed as cash flows from business strategy.
The changes to hedge accounting under IFRS 9 investing activities.
will result in qualitative enhancements to the interest rate and foreign currency risk management disclosures.
The changes Properties introduced by IFRS 9 will not have a quantitative impact on the Properties are externally valued on the basis of fair value at the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Investment and owner-occupied properties are recorded at valuation whereas trading properties are stated at the IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers effective year lower of cost and net realisable value.
ending 31 March 2019 The new standard combines a number of previous standards, Any surplus or deficit arising on revaluing investment properties is setting out a five step model for the recognition of revenue and recognised in the capital and other column of the income statement.
establishing principles for reporting useful information to users offinancial statements about the nature, timing and uncertainty Any surplus arising on revaluing owner-occupied properties above ofrevenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with cost is recognised in other comprehensive income, and any deficit customers.
The new standard does not apply to rental income, arising in revaluation below cost for owner-occupied and trading which is in the scope of IAS 17, but does apply to service charge properties is recognised in the capital and other column of the income, management and performance fees and trading property income statement.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109
