Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A Accounting policies Investments and loans The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 have Investments and loans in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation at cost less provision for impairment.
These financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Significant judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The amendments to FRS 101 The key source of estimation uncertainty relates to the Companys 2015 16 Cycle issued in July 2016 and effective immediately have investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures.
In estimating the been applied.
requirement for impairment of these investments, management make assumptions and judgements on the value of these In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the investments using inherently subjective underlying asset valuations, recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of supported by independent valuers.
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs, but makes amendments where necessary in order B Dividends to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where Details of dividends paid and proposed are included in note 19 of the advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure C Employee information exemptions under FRS 101: Employee costs include wages and salaries of 39m 2016 17: 37m, social security costs of 5m 2016 17: 5m and pension costs of 5m a the requirements of IAS 1 to provide a balance sheet at the 2016 17: 5m.
Details of the Executive Directors remuneration are beginning of the period in the event of a prior period adjustment: disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
b t he requirements of IAS 1 to provide a statement of cash flows for the period: Audit fees in relation to the parent Company only were 0.3m c t he requirements of IAS 1 to provide a statement of compliance 2016 17: 0.2m.
with IFRS: d t he requirements of IAS 1 to disclose information on the management of capital: e the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors to disclose new IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: f t he requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly-owned by such a member: g t he requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose key management personnel compensation: h t he requirements of IFRS 7 to disclose financial instruments: and i the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to disclose information of fair value valuation techniques and inputs.
Going concern The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis as explained in the corporate governance section on page 51.
150 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018
