Other information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar 2018 19 Fourth quarter ex-dividend date 28 June 2018 Fourth quarter dividend payment date 3 August 2018 First quarter ex-dividend date 4 October 2018 First quarter dividend payment date 9 November 2018 Half year results November 2018 Second quarter ex-dividend date January 2019 Second quarter dividend payment date February 2019 Third quarter ex-dividend date March 2019 Third quarter dividend payment date May 2019 Full year results May 2019 Fourth quarter ex-dividend date June 2019 Fourth quarter dividend payment date August 2019 If offered, the Board will announce the availability of a Scrip dividend alternative via the Regulatory News Service no later than four business days before each ex-dividend date.
Scrip dividend alternatives will not be enhanced.
The split between PID and non-PID income for each dividend will be announced at the same time.
178 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Registrars Registered office British Land has appointed Equiniti Limited Equiniti to administer The British Land Company PLC its shareholder register.
Equiniti can be contacted at: York House 45 Seymour Street, London W1H 7LX Aspect House Telephone: 44 0 20 7486 4466 Spencer Road Website: w w w. britishland.
com Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 0371 384 2143 UK callers Dividends Tel: 44 0 121 415 7047 Overseas callers As a REIT, British Land pays Property Income Distribution PID Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday andnon-Property Income Distribution non-PID dividends.
More excludingpublic holidays information on REITs and PIDs can be found in the Investors section Website: w w w. shareview.
co. uk of our website at w w w. britishland.
By registering with Shareview, shareholders can: British Land dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building society account instead of being despatched to you by cheque.
More View your British Land shareholding online information about the benefits of having dividends paid directly into Update your details your bank or building society account, and the mandate form to set Elect to receive shareholder mailings electronically this up, can be found in the Investors section of our website at w w w. britishland.
com investors dividends Equiniti is also the Registrar for the BLD Property Holdings .
Scrip Dividend Scheme Share dealing facilities British Land may offer shareholders the opportunity to participate By registering with Shareview, Equiniti also provides existing and inthe Scrip Dividend Scheme by offering a Scrip Alternative to a prospective UK shareholders with a share dealing facility for buying particular dividend from time to time.
The Scrip Dividend Scheme and selling British Land shares online or by phone.
allows participating shareholders to receive additional shares instead of a cash dividend.
For more information please visit the For more information, contact Equiniti at w w w. shareview.
co. uk Investors section of our website at w w w. britishland.
com dividends dealing or call 0845 603 7037 Monday to Friday excluding public .
Existing British Land shareholders will need the reference number given on your share certificate Unsolicited mail to register.
Similar share dealing facilities are provided by other British Land is required by law to make its share register available brokers, banks and financial services.
on request to other organisations.
This may result in the receipt of unsolicited mail.
To limit this, shareholders may register with the Website and shareholder communications Mailing Preference Service.
For more information, or to register, The British Land corporate website contains a wealth of material visit: w w w. mpsonline.
for shareholders, including the current share price, press releases and information dividends.
The website can be accessed at Shareholders are also advised to be vigilant of share fraud which w w w. britishland.
includes telephone calls offering free investment advice or offers to buy and sell shares at discounted or highly inflated prices.
British Land encourages its shareholders to receive shareholder If it sounds too good to be true, it often is.
This enables shareholders to canbe found on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website receive information quickly and securely as well as in a more w w w. fca.
uk scams or by calling the FCA Consumer environmentally friendly and cost-effective manner.
Further Helpline on 0800 111 6768. information can be obtained from Shareview or the ShareholderHelpline.
Tax The Group elected for REIT status on 1 January 2007, paying a 308m ShareGift conversion charge to HMRC in the same year.
As a consequence of Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which the Groups REIT status, tax is not levied within the corporate group makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating on the qualifying property rental business but is instead deducted their shares to charity.
ShareGift is a registered charity No.
1052686 from distributions of such income as Property Income Distributions which collects and sells unwanted shares and uses the proceeds to shareholders.
Any income which does not fall within the REIT tosupport a wide range of UK charities.
A ShareGift donation form regime is subject to tax within the Group in the usual way.
This can be obtained from Equiniti.
includes profits on property trading activity, property related fee income and interest income.
We continue to comfortably pass all Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from their REIT tests ensuring that our REIT status is maintained.
We work proactively and openly to maintain a constructive Honorary President relationship with HMRC.
We discuss matters in real-time with HMRC In recognition of his work building British Land into the industry and disclose all relevant facts and circumstances, particularly where leading company it is today, Sir John Ritblat was appointed as there may be tax uncertainty or the law is unclear.
HMRC assigns Honorary President on his retirement from the Board in risk ratings to all large companies.
We have a low appetite for tax December 2006. risk and HMRC considers us to be Low Risk a status we have held since 2007 when the rating was first introduced by HMRC.
Further information can be found in our Tax Strategy at w w w. britishland.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 179 Forward-looking statements This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements.
Such statements reflect current views on, among other things, our markets, activities, projections, objectives and prospects.
Such forward-looking statements can sometimes, but not always, be identified by their reference to a date or point in the future or the use of forward-looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, due, plans, projects, goal, outlook, schedule, target, aim, may, likely to, will, would, could, should or similar expressions or in each case their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks, assumptions and uncertainties because they relate to future events and depend on circumstances which may or may not occur and may be beyond our ability to control or predict.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with caution as actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements.
Important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements of British Land to differ materially from any outcomes or results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements include, among other things: a general business and political, social and economic conditions globally, b the consequences of the referendum on Britain leaving the EU, c industry and market trends including demand in the property investment market and property price volatility, d competition, e the behaviour of other market participants, f changes in government policies or laws and regulation which affect British Land, including in relation to the environment, health and safety and taxation in particular, in respect of British Lands status as a Real Estate Investment Trust, g inflation and consumer confidence, h labour relations and work stoppages, i natural disasters and adverse weather conditions, j terrorism and acts of war, k British Lands overall business strategy, risk appetite and investment choices in its portfolio management, l legal or other proceedings against or affecting British Land, m deterioration of reliability and security of its IT infrastructure, n changes in occupier demand and tenant default, o changes in financial and equity markets including interest and exchange rate fluctuations, p changes in accounting practices and the interpretation of accounting standards and q the availability and cost of finance.
The Companys principal risks are described in greater detail in the section of this Annual Report headed Managing risk in delivering our strategy and principal risks.
Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report, or the British Land website or made subsequently, which are attributable to British Land or persons acting on its behalf should therefore be construed in light of all such factors.
Information contained in this Annual Report relating to British Land or its share price or the yield on its shares are not guarantees of, and should not be relied upon as an indicator of, future performance, and nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast or profit estimate.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of British Land speak only as of the date they are made.
Such forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above and no representation, assurance, guarantee or warranty is given in relation to them whether by British Land or any of its associates, Directors, officers, employees or advisers, including as to their completeness, accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
Other than in accordance with our legal and regulatory obligations including under the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Market Abuse Regulations, British Land does not intend or undertake to update or revise forwardlooking statements to reflect any changes in British Lands expectations with regard thereto or any changes in information, events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
This document shall not, under any circumstances, create any implication that there has been no change in the business or affairs of British Land since the date of this document or that the information contained herein is correct as at any time subsequent to this date.
180 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Design and production Superunion formerly Addison Group w w w. super union.
com Print Pureprint Group This report is printed on X-Per which is FSC certified.
The Pulp used is Elemental Chlorine Free.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint who are a CarbonNeutral company and are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
If you have finished with this document and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 BRITISH LAND Head office and registered office York House 45 Seymour Street London W1H 7LX Telephone 44 0 20 7486 4466 Fax 44 0 20 7935 5552 w w w. britishland.
com @BritishLandPLC British Land PLC @BritishLandPLC @BritishLandPLC The Queens Award for Enterprise British Land was awarded the UKs highest accolade for business success, for economic, social and environmental achievements over five years.
The Queens Award for Enterprise British Land was awarded the UKs highest accolade for business success, for economic, social and environmental achievements over five years.
