The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Transition We previously disclosed in our Annual Report & Form 20-F 2017 Preparation of the financial statements that we were planning to adopt IFRS 15 retrospectively.
This meant These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in applying the new standard to each prior reporting period presented, accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to ie 2016 17 and 2017 18, in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting companies using International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
Having Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and International Accounting considered further the factors that would influence our approach Standards IAS and IFRS and related interpretations, as adopted by including the time, effort and cost of adopting IFRS 15 the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements are also retrospectively, as disclosed in the prior year Annual Report, we in compliance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting have decided to adopt the new standard on a modified retrospective Standards Board the IASB and interpretations as issued by the IFRS basis and the group will recognise the cumulative effect of initially Interpretations Committee.
The consolidated financial statements applying the standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of are prepared on a going concern basis.
retained earnings at 1 April 2018, ie the date of initial application.
Under this transition method: These financial statements consolidate British Telecommunications the standard will be applied only to contracts in progress but plc, the parent company, and its subsidiaries together the group.
not completed at the date of initial application The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the for contracts that were modified before 1 April 2018, the group historical cost basis, except for certain financial and equity shall reflect the aggregate effect of all of the modifications that instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The occur before this date at 1 April 2018 consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, the we will not restate prior year comparatives for the effect of IFRS functional currency of British Telecommunications plc, the parent 15 but will instead restate our 1 April 2018 opening retained company.
earnings for the full cumulative impact of adopting this standard for the year ended 31 March 2019 we will provide a New and amended accounting standards reconciliation of our primary financial statements under IFRS 15 effective during the year to those in accordance with IAS 18.
Note 23 of these consolidated financial statements reflect the amendments of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows requiring the IFRS 15 Project disclosure of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
The group has deployed a cross-functional project team dedicated to the implementation of IFRS 15.
This team has been engaged in There have been no other new or amended standards or determining accounting policies under the new standard, interpretations adopted during the year that have a significant quantifying the transitional adjustments and selecting and impact on the financial statements.
The team is also reviewing the impact on tax, intragroup trading, forecasting, the bid and New and amended accounting standards that tender process and HR and remuneration plans.
There is a significant have been issued but are not yet effective impact on the groups billing data and accounting platforms.
The following standards have been issued and are effective for accounting periods ending on or after 1 April 2018 and are Performance obligations expected to have an impact on the group financial statements.
IFRS 15 requires that at contract inception, we assess the goods or services promised in a contract with a customer and identify as a IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers performance obligation each promise to transfer to the customer the Background good or service.
Promises in a contract can be explicit, or implicit if the In May 2014, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was promises create a valid expectation to provide a good or service based issued.
It was subsequently amended in September 2015 and April on the customary business practices, published policies, or specific 2016.
It is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. statements.
Transition to IFRS 15 for the group will take place on 1 April 2018.
Results in the 2018 19 financial year will comply with IFRS 15, with The stand-alone selling prices of the groups products and services the first Annual Report and Form 20-F published in accordance with have been determined.
These may be regulated prices, list prices, IFRS 15 being that for the year ended 31 March 2019. a cost-plus derived price, the price of similar products when sold on a stand-alone basis by BT or a competitor or in some cases the IFRS 15 sets out the requirements for recognising revenue and contract price where the price contracted represents a bespoke costs from contracts with customers and includes extensive price that would be the same for a similar customer in a similar disclosure requirements.
The standard requires entities to circumstance.
apportion revenue earned from contracts to individual promises, or performance obligations, on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, based on a five-step model.
110 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 111
