The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and the Shareholders of British Telecommunications plc Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying group balance sheets of British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries the Company as of 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017, and the related group income statements, group statements of comprehensive income, group statements of changes in equity and group cash flow statements for each of the three years in the period ended 31 March 2018, including the related notes collectively referred to as the financial statements.
We also have audited the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 March 2018 in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the COSO.
Basis for Opinions The Companys management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting on page 94 of the Report of the Directors Statutory Information of the British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Companys financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U. S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.
Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 LLP London, United Kingdom 23 May 2018 We have served as the Companys auditor since 1984.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 105 104 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018
