STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GLOSSARY Non-GAAP measures are provided because they are closely tracked by management to evaluate Britvics operating performance and to make financial, strategic and operating decisions.
Volume is dened as number of litres sold, excluding factored brands sold by Counterpoint in Ireland.
No volume is recorded in respect of international concentrate sales.
AER refers to Actual Exchange Rate where variances are calculated on sterling values translated at actual exchange rates.
ARP is dened as average revenue per litre sold, excluding factored brands and concentrate sales.
Revenue is dened as sales achieved by the group net of price promotional investment and retailer discounts.
Brand contribution is a non-GAAP measure and is dened as revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product.
Such costs include brand specic advertising and promotion costs, raw materials, and marginal production and distribution costs.
Brand contribution margin is a non-GAAP measure and is a percentage measure calculated as brand contribution, divided by revenue.
Each business units performance is reported down to the brand contribution level.
EBITDA is earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure dened as operating profit before adjusting items, depreciation, amortisation, impairment of PPE intangible assets and profit loss from sale of PPE intangible assets.
Adjusted EBIT is a non-GAAP measure and is dened as operating profit before adjusting items.
EBIT margin is EBIT as a proportion of group revenue.
Adjusted profit after tax is a non-GAAP measure and is dened as profit after tax before adjusting items, with the exception of acquisition related amortisation.
Adjusted earnings per share is a non-GAAP measure calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by the average number of shares during the period.
Adjusted earnings is dened as the profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders before adjusting items.
Average number of shares during the period is dened as the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period excluding any own shares held by Britvic that are used to satisfy various employee share-based incentive programmes.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for adjusted earnings per share for the period was 263.7m 2017: 263.0m.
Adjusted free cash ow is a non-GAAP measure and is dened as net cash ow excluding movements in borrowings, dividend payments and adjusting items.
Adjusted net debt is a non-GAAP measure and is dened as group net debt, adding back the impact of derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt.
Organic is a non-GAAP measure and excludes the impact of the acquisition of Bela Ischia and on a constant currency basis.
In GB and Ireland organic also excludes the Soft Drinks Industry Levy SDIL and Sugar Sweetened Soft Drinks Tax SSDT.
Innovation is dened as new launches over the last three years, excluding new avours and pack sizes of established brands.
Revenue management is a measure and is used to define a range of actions to affect ARP.
It includes, but is not limited to, price increases, changes to price promotions and variation of pack size.
Quality distribution is a measure used to describe the placement of products in the appropriate outlets for the specified product.
Retail market value and volume is a measure and is a measure of the recorded sales at the retail point of purchase.
This data is typically collated by independent organisations such as Nielsen and IRI from data supplied by retailers.
A&P is a measure of marketing spend including marketing, research and advertising.
Non-working A&P is a measure of marketing spend that is not spent directly on consumer facing activity.
It would include, but not limited to, agency fees, research and production costs.
Constant exchange rate is a non-GAAP measure of performance in the underlying currency to eliminate the impact of foreign exchange movements.
Great Place to Work GPTW is a methodology process adopted by businesses to measure employee engagement.
Soft Drinks Industry Levy SDIL is a levy applied on soft drinks manufacturers in the UK.
Sugar Sweetened Soft Drinks Tax SSDT is a levy applied on soft drinks manufacturers in the Republic of Ireland.
Business Capability Programme BCP relates to a restructuring of supply chain and operating model to enhance commercial capabilities in the Group, including the closure of the Norwich site.
CAGR is compound annual growth rate.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 151
