The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion IFRS 9 operates an expected credit loss model rather than an management and reported to the Board and the Executive incurred credit loss model.
Providing for loss allowances on our Committee of BT Group plc.
existing financial assets is not expected to have a material impact.
We have included the impact of providing for losses on our Specific items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures contract assets within the estimated impact of the adoption of used by other companies.
Examples of charges or credits meeting IFRS 15 as set out above.
the above definition and which have been presented as specific items in the current and or prior years include IFRS 16 Leases acquisitions disposals of businesses and investments, regulatory IFRS 16 was published in January 2016 and will be effective for settlements, historical insurance or litigation claims, business BT from 1 April 2019, replacing IAS 17 Leases.
We are planning restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, property to adopt IFRS 16 on a modified retrospective basis and the group rationalisation programmes, net interest on pensions and the will recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying the settlement of multiple tax years.
In the event that other items standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained meet the criteria, which are applied consistently from year to year, earnings at 1 April 2019, ie the date of initial application.
Results they are also treated as specific items.
in the 2019 20 financial year will be IFRS 16 compliant and the Annual Report and 20-F 2020 will be the first to include the Specific items for the current and prior years are disclosed in results on this basis.
The standard requires lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all 2.
Critical accounting estimates leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less, or the underlying asset is of low value.
and key judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS The group is still in the process of quantifying the implications of this requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
However, we expect the following indicative impacts: requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of there is expected to be an increase in total assets, as leased applying our accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our assets which are currently accounted for off balance sheet ie estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available classified as operating leases under IAS 17 will be recognised information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in on balance sheet valued in accordance with the principles of financial reporting, actual results could differ from these IFRS 16.
The biggest asset category impacted for the group is estimates.
Management has discussed its critical accounting expected to be land and buildings estimates and associated disclosures with the Audit and Risk there is expected to be an increase in debt, as liabilities relating Committee of BT Group plc.
The areas involving a higher degree of to existing operating leases are recognised.
The increase in judgement or complexity are described in the applicable notes to total debt will have an impact on gearing ratios the financial statements.
Critical accounting estimates and key operating lease expenditure will be reclassified and split between judgements can be identified throughout the notes by the depreciation and finance costs.
Future depreciation and finance costs are also expected to We have the following critical accounting estimates E and key increase as a result of increased assets and liabilities there is an expected temporary reduction in profit after tax as judgements J : Revenue from multiple element arrangements, see note 4 J. result of the above changes.
This is expected to be driven by an increase in finance costs as a result of the new leases.
These Subscriber acquisition and retention costs, see note 5 J.
Current and deferred income tax, see note 9 E, J. finance costs will have an accelerated profile which will reduce once the leases are settled Goodwill, see note 11 E. Government grants relating to Broadband Delivery UK BDUK there may be a corresponding effect on tax balances in relation to all of the above impacts.
Long-term customer contracts, see note 16 E. This standard will require us to make key accounting judgements in Provisions and contingent liabilities, see note 18 E, J. particular around the likelihood of lease renewals.
Details of our existing operating lease commitments are set out in 3.
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These Presentation of specific items policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, Our income statement and segmental analysis separately identify unless otherwise stated.
trading results before specific items.
The directors believe that presentation of our results in this way is relevant to an Basis of consolidation understanding of our financial performance, as specific items are The group financial statements consolidate the financial identified by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
This statements of British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries, presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance and include its share of the results of associates and joint ventures is measured by management and reported to the Board and the using the equity method of accounting.
The group recognises its Executive Committee of BT Group plc and assists in providing a direct rights to and its share of jointly held assets, liabilities, meaningful analysis of our trading results.
In determining whether revenues and expenses of joint operations under the appropriate an event or transaction is specific, management considers headings in the consolidated financial statements.
quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known as the parent or investor.
An investor controls an investee Furthermore, we consider a columnar presentation to be when the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the presentation and is from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by those returns through its power over the investee.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 113 112 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual subsidiaries, which consist of the amounts of those interests at the arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element of date of the original business combination and non-controlling costs incurred in the initial contract set-up, transition or share of changes in equity since the date of the combination, are transformation phase, which is deferred and recorded within nonnot material to the groups financial statements.
These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the remaining contract The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a different are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
These costs are directly attributable to Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been specific contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future aligned with the policies adopted by the group.
All intra-group economic benefits and are assessed for recoverability on a regular transactions including any gains or losses, balances, income or basis.
expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred non-controlling interests.
The profit or loss on disposal is to date, to the extent that such revenue is expected to be recognised as a specific item.
recoverable, or costs are accrued to bring the margin to nil.
Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the Revenue contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or outcome are changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in receivable for communications services and equipment sales, net estimates is recorded in the period in which such revisions become of discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction to completion exceed the estimated revenue for a contract, the will flow to the group and the amount of revenue and associated full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
costs can be measured reliably.
The accounting for revenue sharing arrangements depends on the analysis of the facts and Multiple element arrangements and bundles circumstances surrounding these transactions.
Revenue from multiple element arrangements and bundles is described in note 4.
Where we act as an agent in a transaction, we recognise revenue net of directly attributable costs.
Operating and reportable segments Our operating segments are reported based on financial Services information provided to the Executive Committee of BT Group plc Revenue arising from separable installation and connection which is the key management committee and represents the chief services is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
from the rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits as well as wholesale access revenue is recognised on a straight line Our organisational structure reflects the different customer basis over the period to which it relates.
Revenue from calls is groups to which we provide communications products and recognised at the time the call is made over our network.
services via our customer-facing units: BT Consumer, EE, Business Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for and Public Sector, Global Services, Wholesale and Ventures and access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, Openreach.
The customer-facing units are supported by an are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue from internal service unit: Technology, Service & Operations TSO.
the interconnection of voice and data traffic between other The customer-facing units are our reportable segments and telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit generate substantially all of our revenue.
We aggregate the across our network.
remaining operations and include within the Other category to Equipment sales reconcile to the consolidated results of the group.
The Other Revenue from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the category includes TSO and our corporate units including significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the procurement and property management.
customer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial and and accepted by the customer.
regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, are Long-term contractual arrangements initially recorded in the Other segment.
On resolution of the Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements, including dispute, the full impact is recognised in the results of the relevant fixed price contracts to design and build software solutions, is customer-facing unit and offset in the group results through the recognised based on the percentage of completion method.
The utilisation of the provision previously charged to the Other stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure segment.
Settlements which are particularly significant or cover according to the nature of the contract such as the proportion of more than one financial year may fall within the definition of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract costs, or specific items as detailed on page 209. other measures of completion such as the achievement of contract milestones and customer acceptance.
In the case of time and materials contracts, revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
114 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 113 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion The costs incurred by TSO are recharged to the customer-facing The group also operates defined contribution pension plans and units to reflect the services it provides to them.
Depreciation and the income statement expense represents the contributions amortisation incurred by TSO in relation to the networks and payable for the year.
systems it manages and operates on behalf of the customer-facing Property, plant and equipment units is allocated to the customer-facing units based on their Property, plant and equipment are included at historical cost, net respective utilisation.
Capital expenditure incurred by TSO for of accumulated depreciation, government grants and any specific projects undertaken on behalf of the customer-facing units impairment charges.
Property, plant and equipment acquired is allocated based on the value of the directly attributable through business combinations are initially recorded at fair value expenditure incurred.
Where projects are not directly attributable to and subsequently accounted for on the same basis as the groups a particular customer-facing unit, capital expenditure is allocated existing assets.
An item of property, plant and equipment is between them based on the proportion of estimated future derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are economic benefits.
TSO and the groups corporate functions are not expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
The reportable segments as they did not meet the quantitative difference between the sale proceeds and the net book value at thresholds as set out in IFRS 8 Operating Segments for any of the the date of disposal is recognised in operating costs in the income years presented.
Performance of each reportable segment is measured based on Included within the cost of network infrastructure and equipment adjusted EBITDA, defined as EBITDA before specific items, as are direct and indirect labour costs, materials and directly included in the internal financial reports reviewed by the Executive attributable overheads.
Committee of BT Group plc.
EBITDA is defined as the operating profit or loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a expense and taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is considered to be a straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, to useful measure of the operating performance of the customerwrite off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into facing units because it approximates the underlying operating account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not cash flow by eliminating depreciation and amortisation and also depreciated.
provides a meaningful analysis of trading performance by excluding specific items, which are disclosed separately by virtue The estimated useful lives assigned to principal categories of of their size, nature or incidence.
Specific items are detailed in assets are as follows: note 8 and are not allocated to the reportable segments as this reflects how they are reported to the Executive Committee of BT Group plc.
Finance expense and income are not allocated to the Land and buildings reportable segments, as the central treasury function manages Freehold buildings 14 to 50 years this activity, together with the overall net debt position of the group.
Short-term leasehold improvements Shorter of 10 years or lease term On 1 April 2018, our BT Consumer and EE customer-facing units Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease or were brought together to drive converged products and 40 years, whichever is the shorter accelerate transformation.
Additionally, Business and Public Sector and Wholesale and Ventures will be brought together from 1 October 2018.
Each of these businesses operated separately Network infrastructure throughout 2017 18 and therefore have been presented as four Transmission equipment separate operating segments throughout these financial Duct 40 years statements, unless explicitly stated otherwise.
For further Cable 3 to 25 years information see note 30.
Fibre 5 to 20 years Retirement benefits Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years The groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension Other network equipment 2 to 20 years plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan assets.
Other assets The calculation of the obligation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method and key actuarial Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years assumptions at the balance sheet date.
Computers and office equipment 3 to 7 years The income statement expense is allocated between an operating charge and net finance income or expense.
The operating charge Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter reflects the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and the pension benefit earned by active employees in the current useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are period, the costs of administering the plans and any past service recognised prospectively.
costs credits such as those arising from curtailments or settlements.
The net finance income or expense reflects the interest on the net Network share assets retirement benefit obligations recognised in the group balance Certain assets have been contributed to a network share sheet, based on the discount rate at the start of the year.
Actuarial arrangement by both EE and Hutchison 3G UK Limited, with legal gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they title remaining with the contributor.
This is considered to be a occur and are presented in the group statement of comprehensive reciprocal arrangement.
The groups share of the assets on income.
acquisition of EE was recognised at fair value within tangible assets, and depreciated in line with the groups policy.
Subsequent additions are recorded at cost.
For further information see note 12.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 115 114 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Intangible assets straight line basis over their useful economic life or the term of the Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the group contract.
controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benefits Estimated useful economic lives attributable to the asset will flow to the group and the cost of the The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal asset can be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other than categories of intangible assets are as follows: goodwill, are amortised over their useful economic life.
The method of amortisation reflects the pattern in which the assets are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern cannot be determined Computer software 2 to 10 years reliably, the straight line method is used.
Telecommunications licences 2 to 20 years Goodwill Customer relationships and brands 1 to 15 years Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net assets including intangible assets of the acquired business.
Programme rights Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from the For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a point at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
business combination is allocated to each of the Cash Generating Rights for which the licence period has not started are disclosed as Units CGUs that is expected to benefit from the business contractual commitments in note 29.
Payments made to receive combination.
Each CGU to which goodwill is allocated represents commissioned or acquired programming in advance of the legal the lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is right to broadcast the programmes are classified as prepayments.
monitored for internal management purposes.
Programmes produced internally are charged to the income Acquired intangible assets customer relationships and brands statement over the period of the related broadcast.
Intangible assets such as customer relationships or brands acquired through business combinations are recorded at fair value Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with at the date of acquisition and subsequently carried at amortised the groups policy for impairment of non-financial assets set out cost.
Assumptions are used in estimating the fair values of these below.
Related cash outflows are classified as operating cash flows relationships or brands and include managements estimates of in the cash flow statement.
revenue and profits to be generated by them.
Inventories Telecommunications licences Network maintenance equipment and equipment to be sold to Licence fees paid to governments, which permit customers are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value, telecommunications activities to be operated for defined periods, taking into account expected revenues from the sale of packages are initially recorded at cost and amortised from the time the comprising a mobile handset and a subscription.
Cost corresponds network is available for use to the end of the licence period or to purchase or production cost determined by either the first in where our usage can extend beyond the initial licence period, over first out FIFO or average cost method.
the period we expect to benefit from the use of the licences, which is typically 20 years.
Licences acquired through business Provisions combinations are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
The fair value is based constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable on managements assumption of future cash flows using market that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the expectations at acquisition date.
obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a Computer software pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time Computer software comprises computer software licences value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial purchased from third parties, and also the cost of internally liabilities within provisions are initially recognised at fair value and developed software.
Computer software licences purchased from subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest third parties are initially recorded at cost.
Onerous lease provisions are measured at the lower of the cost to fulfil or to exit the contract.
Costs directly associated with the production of internally developed software, including direct and indirect labour costs of Current and deferred income tax development, are capitalised only where it is probable that the Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws software will generate future economic benefits, the cost of the enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be countries where the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an intangible asset ventures operate and generate taxable income.
The group on the balance sheet.
Costs which do not meet these criteria and periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect research costs are expensed as incurred.
to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the group establishes provisions where The groups development costs which give rise to internally appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to tax developed software include upgrading the network architecture or authorities.
functionality and developing service platforms aimed at offering new services to the groups customers.
See research and Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of development on page 17. temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred income Other tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally Other intangible assets include website development costs and enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax other licences.
Items are capitalised at cost and amortised on a liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on 116 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 115 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there translation difference associated with the undertaking in the is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Any remaining translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all disposal recognised in the income statement.
available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will Research and development be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, including difference can be utilised.
the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in the Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to income statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it is apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability probable that economic benefits will flow to the group from the settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an intangible asset on the balance sheet.
Impairment of non-financial assets Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and use.
Research and development costs include direct and indirect equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in labour, materials and directly attributable overheads.
circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment Leases test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a to the higher of the net present value of the expected future cash lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires flows value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is fair value less costs to dispose.
dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement, as a specific item.
If Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds a cash generating unit is impaired, impairment losses are allocated substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as firstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro-rata basis against finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the intangible and other assets.
commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the Government grants leased asset.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable finance charges in respect of future periods, are recognised as assurance that the conditions associated with the grants have liabilities.
Leases are subsequently measured at amortised cost been complied with and the grants will be received.
using the effective interest method.
Grants for the purchase or production of property, plant and Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are equipment are deducted from the cost of the related assets and held by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals are reduce future depreciation expense accordingly.
Grants for the charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the reimbursement of operating expenditure are deducted from the period of the lease.
related category of costs in the income statement.
Government grants received relating to the BDUK programme and other rural Share-based payments superfast broadband contracts are accounted for as described BT Group plc operates a number of equity settled share-based under Critical accounting estimates and key judgements.
payment arrangements, under which the group receives services from employees in consideration for equity instruments share Once a government grant is recognised, any related deferred options and shares of BT Group plc.
Equity settled share-based income is treated in accordance with IAS 20 Accounting for payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
MarketGovernment Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance.
based performance criteria and non-vesting conditions for example, the requirement for employees to make contributions to Foreign currencies the share purchase programme are reflected in this measurement Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional of fair value.
The fair value determined at the grant date is currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the vesting transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the period, based on the groups estimate of the options or shares that settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non marketand liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the exchange rates are recognised in the income statement line which Binomial options pricing model or Monte Carlo simulations, most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transaction.
whichever is more appropriate to the share-based payment arrangement.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable taken into account to determine the fair value of equity approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on instruments granted.
In the case that an award or option does not the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are vest as a result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange within the control of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a differences arising on the retranslation of foreign undertakings are cancellation.
Cancellations are treated as accelerated vesting and recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the all remaining future charges are immediately recognised in the translation reserve.
As the requirement to save under an employee saveshare arrangement is a non-vesting condition, employee In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and cancellations, other than through a termination of service, are liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative treated as an accelerated vesting.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 117 116 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued No adjustment is made to total equity for awards that lapse or are Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss forfeited after the vesting date.
All of the groups derivative financial instruments are held for trading and classified as fair value through profit or loss.
Termination benefits Termination benefits leaver costs are payable when employment is Derivative financial instruments terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The group recognises termination benefits when it is policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
However, demonstrably committed to the affected employees leaving the derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are group.
specifically not designated as a hedge where natural offset is more appropriate are initially recognised and subsequently measured at Financial instruments fair value through profit and loss.
Any direct transaction costs are Financial liabilities at amortised cost recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses Trade and other payables on re-measurement are recognised in the income statement in the Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially line that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced transaction to which they relate.
Derivative financial instruments amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the are classified as current assets or current liabilities where they effective interest method.
have a maturity period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 Loans and other borrowings months, they are classified within either non-current assets or Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value non-current liabilities.
of amounts received net of transaction costs.
Loans and other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Where the fair value of a derivative contract at initial recognition is effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge not supported by observable market data and differs from the relationship, are re-valued to reflect the fair value movements on transaction price, a day one gain or loss will arise which is not the hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The recognised in the income statement.
Such gains and losses are resulting amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation deferred and amortised to the income statement based on the of the hedge, is recognised in the income statement.
remaining contractual term and as observable market data becomes available.
Available-for-sale investments Liquid and other investments are classified as available-for-sale Hedge accounting investments and are initially recognised at fair value plus direct Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any transaction costs.
These are re-measured at subsequent reporting resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
To qualify dates to fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except for for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be prepared at changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, dividends inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly effective and impairment losses, which are recognised in the income both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested for statement recognised in equity.
When the financial asset is effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously hedge remains in operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, in the line the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no longer that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or qualifies for hedge accounting or the group chooses to end the transaction.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any hedge relationship.
The group designates certain derivatives as gains and losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges.
income are re-classified to the income statement.
Dividends on equity investments are recognised in the income statement when Cash flow hedges the groups right to receive payment is established.
Equity When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge investments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or expected to be sold within one year.
a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly Loans and receivables in equity, in the cash flow reserve.
For cash flow hedges of Trade and other receivables recognised assets or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, loss is removed from equity and recognised in the same line of which is usually the original invoiced amount, and are the income statement and in the same period or periods that the subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest hedged transaction affects the income statement.
Any method, less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
Provisions ineffectiveness arising on a cash flow hedge of a recognised are made specifically where there is evidence of a risk of nonasset or liability is recognised immediately in the same income payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises and general economic conditions.
on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the income statement line which most appropriately reflects the nature of Cash and cash equivalents the item or transaction.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily Fair value hedges convertible to cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and unrecognised firm commitment, the change in fair value of the cash equivalents are as defined above net of outstanding bank derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other the income statement at each reporting date, together with any borrowings, in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
118 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 117
