The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS Notes to the company financial statements PLC PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES The requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to 1.
Basis of preparation disclose related party transactions entered into between two or The term company refers to British Telecommunications plc.
more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is These separate financial statements of the company have been a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable The requirements of paragraphs 130 f ii, 130 f iii, 134 d to to companies using Financial Reporting Standard 100 FRS101.
134 f and 135 c to 135 e of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS The requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
Accordingly, these financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced disclosure framework.
IFRS 13 fair value measurement FRS 101 involves the application of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with a reduced level of disclosure.
The company intends to continue to take advantage of these exemptions in future years.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial and equity Where required, equivalent disclosures have been given in the instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The financial group accounts of British Telecommunications plc BT plc.
statements are presented in Sterling, the functional currency of the company.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements The financial statements have been prepared on a consistent basis The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS with the prior year with the exception of the following items: 101 requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It During the year we reviewed the classification of loans to group also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process undertakings.
We determined that 1,417m of loans classified as of applying our accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our current at 31 March 2017 should have been non-current to reflect estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available the directors' expectations that settlement will not occur within 12 information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in months from the balance sheet date.
The impact at 31 March financial reporting, actual results could differ from these 2017 is an increase in non-current loans to group undertakings of estimates.
Management has discussed its critical accounting 1,417m and a decrease in current loans to group undertakings of estimates and associated disclosures with the British 1,417m.
The balance sheet as at 31 March 2017 has been Telecommunications plc board.
The areas involving a higher degree restated on that basis.
of judgement or complexity are described in the applicable notes to the financial statements.
Critical accounting estimates and key Exemptions judgements can be identified throughout the notes by the As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the following symbol.
companys income statement has not been presented.
We have one new key judgement this year concerning the valuation of The company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 intercompany loan receivables.
in respect of the following disclosures: The requirements of paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 Current and deferred income tax, see note 13 E. Share-based Payments in relation to group-settled shareGoodwill, see note 4 E. based payments.
Government grants relating to Broadband Delivery UK BDUK The requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The requirements of paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Long-term customer contracts, see note 9 E. Measurement.
Provisions and contingent liabilities, see note 13 E, J.
The requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Pension obligations, see note 17 E, J.
Financial Statements to present comparative information in Valuation of intercompany loan receivables, see note 7 J respect of: i paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial 3.
Significant accounting policies Statements: ii paragraph 73 e of IAS 16 Property, Plant and The significant accounting policies applied in preparation of our Equipment: and iii paragraph 118 e of IAS 38 Intangible financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been Assets.
applied consistently to all the years presented, unless otherwise The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial stated.
Statements: 10 d statement of cash flows : 10 f third statement of financial position : 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements including cash flow statements : 38B-D additional comparative information : 40A-D third statement of financial position : 111 cash flow statement information : and 134 to 136 capital management disclosures.
The requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
The requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
172 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 173
