STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Britvic plc the company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
It is a public limited company domiciled in England & Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Britvic plc and its subsidiaries together the group operate in the soft drinks manufacturing and distribution industry, principally in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, France and Brazil.
The financial year represents 52 weeks ended 30 September 2018 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 1 October 2017.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 28 November 2018.
Statement of compliance The financial information has been prepared on the basis of applicable International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS, as they apply to the financial statements of the group.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except where measurement of balances at fair value is required as explained below.
The consolidated financial statements of the group are presented in pounds sterling, which is also the functional currency of the company, and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
Going concern The directors are confident that it is appropriate for the going concern basis to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
As at 30 September 2018, the consolidated balance sheet is showing a net assets position of 377.3m 1 October 2017: net assets of 339.3m.
Group reserves are low due to the capital restructuring undertaken at the time of otation.
This does not impact on Britvic plcs ability to make dividend payments.
The liquidity of the group remains strong, the group has a 400.0m bank facility, on which the group had drawn down 58.0m as at 30 September 2018, with a maturity date of November 2021, and 707.6m of private placement notes which have maturity dates between 2019 and 2033.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the group incorporate the financial information of the company and the entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements.
Control is achieved when the company: Has the power over the investee: Is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and Has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired in the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date the group gains control or up to the date control ceases respectively.
New standards adopted in the current period Initial adoption of IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers The standard has an effective date of 1 January 2018, but the group has decided to early adopt this standard with a date of initial application to the group of 2 October 2017.
IFRS 15 replaces all existing revenue requirements in IFRS and applies to all revenue arising from contracts with customers unless the contracts are within the scope of other standards.
The group has applied IFRS 15 fully retrospectively in accordance with paragraph C3 a of the standard, restating the prior periods comparatives.
The main impact of adopting the standard is a reclassication of certain rebates offered to customers that had previously been recognised as selling and distribution costs to revenue and the reclassication of certain incentives received, from revenue, to cost of sales.
There is no impact on the timing of transfer of control and therefore there is no impact on the timing of recognition of revenue and therefore profit before tax is not impacted.
Additionally, the group is required to separately disclose balances that meet the denition of contract liabilities under IFRS 15 on the consolidated balance sheet.
The details of the groups revised accounting policy in respect of revenue recognition is shown below and the impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 is set out in note 33.
Revenue recognition The group recognises revenue from the sale of soft drinks to the wholesale market.
Revenue is recognised when control of the goods has transferred, being when the goods have been shipped to the customer.
Following delivery, which is determined to be the time of shipment, the customer has full discretion over the manner of distribution and price to sell the goods, has the primary responsibility when onselling the goods and bears the risks of obsolescence and loss in relation to the goods.
A receivable is recognised by the group when the goods are delivered to the customer as this represents the point in time at which the right to consideration becomes unconditional, as only the passage of time is required before payment is due.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Revenue is the value of sales, excluding transactions with or between subsidiaries, after the deduction of sales related discounts and rebates, value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Rebates to customers are deducted from revenue where the amounts paid are sales related or in relation to a good or service which results in an increase in sales in the customers outlet and therefore is not distinct from the sale of soft drinks to the customer and comprise: Long term discounts and rebates These discounts are typically for months rather than weeks and are usually part of the trading terms agreed with the customer.
Long term discounts fall into three main categories: Fixed a dened amount over a period of time Pence per litre case a pence per litre case rebate, based upon volumes sold % of Net Revenue a percentage of Net Revenue, which may have associated hurdle rates Short term promotional discounts Promotional discounts consist of many individual rebates across numerous customers and represents the cost to the group of short term deal mechanics.
The common deals typically include BOGOFs, 3 For 2, and Half Price deals.
Account development fund Account development fund represents customer promotional activity which promotes Britvics products in the customers outlets.
The group agrees to pay the customer various amounts as part of the trading investment.
Where these amounts are payable in relation to a good or service which result in an increase in sales in the customers store only, e. g. in-store promotional activity, management has concluded that this is not distinct, and it is accounted for as a reduction in revenue.
Where these amounts are payable in relation to a good or service which result in an increase in group sales more broadly, e. g. participation in tradeshows or market research, management has concluded that the payment is for a distinct good or service.
Where amounts paid to customers are deemed to be for a distinct service these are included as selling and distribution costs in the income statement.
Variable consideration The group agrees to pay customers various amounts either in the form of sales related rebates and discounts earned or as part of the trading investment e. g. sales driving investment, growth over-rider investment, incentives for purchasing full loads, payment for new store openings, payment for listing new products.
Where the consideration, the group is entitled to, will vary because of a rebate, refund incentive or price concession or similar item: or is contingent on the occurrence or non-occurrence of a future event, e. g. the customer meeting certain agreed criteria, the amount payable is deemed to be variable consideration.
The group uses the most likely method to reect the consideration that the group is entitled to.
Variable consideration is then only included to the extent that it is highly probably that the inclusion will not result in a significant revenue reversal in the future.
Accruals are made for each individual promotion or rebate based on the specic terms and conditions of the customer agreement.
Management make estimates on an ongoing basis to assess customer performance and sales volume to calculate total amounts earned to be recorded as deductions from revenue.
Contract liabilities Contract liabilities are recognised where, as part of a contract with a customer, the group has received consideration where the group will either need to return that consideration or deliver future services and goods in respect of this consideration.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Assets under construction are carried at cost.
Depreciation of these assets commences when they are ready for use.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of an asset, less its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis, over the useful economic life of that asset as follows: Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Vehicles included in plant and machinery 5 to 7 years Equipment in retail outlets included in xtures, ttings, tools and equipment 5 to 10 years Other xtures and ttings included in xtures, ttings, tools and equipment 3 to 10 years Land is not depreciated.
Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years.
Leasehold properties are depreciated over 50 years, or over the unexpired lease term when this is less than 50 years.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount, and are included in the consolidated income statement in the period of derecognition.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Useful lives and residual amounts are reviewed annually and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
Business combinations and goodwill While the original acquisition of Britannia Soft Drinks Limited was accounted for under the merger method, business combinations on or after 4 October 2004 have been accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the acquisition method.
The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value which includes recording deferred consideration at discounted values where the impact of discounting is material.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the consolidated income statement in the period of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Software costs Software expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
Acquired computer software licences and software developed in-house are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
Costs include resources focussed on delivery of capital projects where the choice has been made to use internal resources rather than external resources.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives of three to seven years on a straight line basis.
Trademarks, franchise rights and customer lists Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of consideration paid.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation or impairment losses.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition, if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either nite or indefinite.
Amortisation is charged on assets with nite lives on a straight-line basis over a period appropriate to the assets useful life.
The carrying values of intangible assets with nite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are also tested for impairment annually either individually or, if the intangible asset does not generate cash ows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, as part of the cash generating unit to which it belongs.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether an indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to nite is made on a prospective basis.
Research and development Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset when the group can demonstrate: The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use Its intention to complete and its ability to use the asset How the asset will generate future economic benets The availability of resources to complete the asset The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development The ability to use the intangible asset generated Following initial recognition of development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and available for use.
It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit.
During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Accounting policies continued Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For all remaining intangible assets the group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where impairment testing for an asset is required, the group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount or the recoverable amount of the Cash Generating Unit CGU to which the asset belongs if it does not generate largely independent cash ows.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects senior managements estimate of the cost of capital.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the consolidated income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Goodwill impairment losses cannot subsequently be reversed.
Inventories and work in progress Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial assets The group determines the classication of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, which is normally the transaction price, plus directly attributable transaction costs for those financial assets not subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Loans and receivables The group has financial assets that are classied as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement when loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Fair value The group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives, at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability: or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The fair value of an asset or liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
The group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstance and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: 102 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation at the end of each reporting period.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate uctuations.
All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity proles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is appropriate, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the consolidated income statement.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Cash ow hedges Hedges are classied as cash ow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash ows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
For cash ow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale occurs.
However, when the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the consolidated income statement or included in the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
Net investment hedges Financial instruments are classied as net investment hedges when they hedge the groups net investment in foreign operations.
Some of the groups foreign currency borrowings qualify as hedging instruments that hedge foreign currency net investment balances.
The effective portion of gains or losses on translation of borrowings designated as net investment hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Upon disposal of the associated investment in foreign operations any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recycled through the consolidated income statement.
Fair value hedges Hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities are classied as fair value hedges.
For fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item and is also recognised in the consolidated income statement.
If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedged item would no longer be adjusted and the cumulative adjustment to its carrying amount would be amortised to the consolidated income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate.
The fair value gain or loss on the hedging instrument would continue to be recorded in the consolidated income statement.
Derecognition of financial instruments The derecognition of a financial asset takes place when the contractual rights to the cash ows expire, or when the contractual rights to the cash ows have either been transferred or an obligation has been assumed to pass them through to a third party and the group does not retain substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset.
Financial liabilities are only derecognised when they are extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares market conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fullled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of equity instruments that, in the opinion of the Directors and based on the best available estimate at that date, will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described below.
The consolidated income statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Taxation The current income tax expense is based on taxable profits for the period, after any adjustments in respect of prior periods.
It is calculated using taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for deferred tax assets, on all material temporary differences between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from accelerated capital allowances, intangible assets, provisions for pensions and other postretirement benets, provisions for share-based payments and unutilised losses incurred in overseas jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled based on the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Pensions and post retirement benets The group operates a number of pension schemes.
These include both dened benefit and dened contribution plans.
Dened benefit plans The dened benefit pension liability or asset in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The cost of providing benets is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period.
Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling and the return on plan assets excluding interest, is reected immediately in the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassied to profit or loss.
Past service cost is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period of a plan amendment.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net dened benefit liability or asset.
Dened benefit costs are categorised as follows: Service cost including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements : Net interest expense or income: and Remeasurement.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the consolidated balance sheet represents the deficit or surplus in the groups dened benefit plans.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benets available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Dened contribution plans Under dened contribution plans, contributions payable for the period are charged to the consolidated income statement as an operating expense.
Employee benets Wages, salaries, bonuses and paid annual leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the group.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases by the group.
Leases in which the group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Any lease incentives received are credited to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases to which they relate.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, on demand deposits with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and subject to insignicant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the statement of cash ows, bank overdrafts repayable on demand are a component of cash and cash equivalents.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or other cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance income and finance cost.
On a renancing any unamortised nancing charges are accelerated through the consolidated income statement.
Foreign currencies Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements of the group are presented in pounds sterling.
The presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements is the same as the functional currency of the company.
For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items, included in the financial statements of each entity, are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement, except when hedge accounting is applied and for differences in monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Foreign operations The consolidated income statement and statement of cash ows of foreign operations are translated at the average rate of exchange during the period.
The balance sheet is translated at the rate ruling at the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising on opening net assets and arising on the translation of results at an average rate compared to a closing rate are both recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the accumulated exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the consolidated income statement.
Certain of the groups financial instruments are classied as net investment hedges when they hedge the groups net investment in foreign operations.
See derivative financial instruments and hedging policy for further detail.
Issued share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Own shares The cost of own shares held in employee share trusts and in treasury is deducted from shareholders equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the fair value of any consideration received is also included in shareholders equity.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied The group has not applied the following IFRSs, which may be applicable to the group, that have been issued although in some cases not yet adopted by the EU but are not yet effective: Effective date periods commencing International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS on or after IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 2 Classication and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2 1 January 2018 Annual IFRS Improvement Process AIP IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint ventures clarification that measuring investees at fair value through profit or loss is an  decision 1 January 2018 AIP IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Deletion of shortterm exemptions for first-time adopters 1 January 2018 The group is currently conrming the impacts of the above new standards and interpretations on its results, balance sheet and cash ows, which are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements with the exception of IFRS 16: Leases.
IFRS 9: Financial Instruments: The group will adopt this standard for the period starting 1 October 2018.
The new standard will impact the way the group accounts for certain financial assets and liabilities.
The standard introduces an expected credit loss model when assessing impairment on financial assets.
The group intends to apply the simplied model to recognise expected lifetime losses on its trade receivables.
The group has reviewed the impact on the financial statements as at 1 October 2018 and assessed that none of these changes are material based on the nature of the financial instruments held by the group and the low level of historic losses on trade receivables.
IFRS 9 also introduces a new hedging requirement to align hedge accounting more closely with the groups risk management processes.
There is currently an option to defer the transition of hedge accounting IFRS 9.
The group has therefore decided to continue to account for hedging relationships under IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement and will review when to adopt the hedge accounting for IFRS 9 at a future date.
On adoption there is not expected to be any material change in hedge accounting for the group.
IFRS 16: Leases: The new standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise right of use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for all applicable leases.
The group has assessed the impact of the standard which, based on the leases held at 30 September 2018, will result in a material increase in depreciation and an increase in finance costs offset by a decrease in rental costs resulting in no material impact on profit before tax.
In addition there will be a material increase in property, plant and equipment with a corresponding increase in loans and borrowings as applicable leases are brought onto the balance sheet.
The group is in the process of nalising this work and setting out related accounting policies.
Until this work has been carried out it is not practical to provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect of IFRS 16.
Key judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that the actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements and estimates which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Judgements Franchise rights Franchise rights represent franchise agreements acquired as part of the Britvic Ireland business combination which provides long term rights to distribute certain soft drinks.
These agreements were allocated a 35 year useful economic life at the time of acquisition based on a third party assessment.
As at 30 September 2018 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of 24 years.
The franchise agreement itself has a remaining contract life of 7 years which is less than the useful economic life.
The useful economic life has been determined on the basis that the renewal of the franchise agreements, without significant cost, is highly probable.
Evidence to support this conclusion is: significant emphasis on maintaining a strong relationship with Pepsi, strengthened through the addition of PepsiCo products to Britvics portfolio in recent years: Lack of alternative suppliers: and High barriers of entry to the Irish soft drinks bottling market.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Intangible assets with indefinite lives Management have made a judgement that certain intangible assets relating to brands have indefinite lives.
It is expected that the trademarks with indefinite lives will be held and supported for an indefinite period of time and are expected to generate economic benets.
The group is committed to supporting its trademarks and invests in significant consumer marketing promotional spend.
Estimates Post-retirement benets The determination of the pension and other post-retirement benets cost and obligation is based on assumptions determined with independent actuarial advice.
The assumptions include discount rate, ination, pension and salary increases, expected return on scheme assets, mortality and other demographic assumptions.
These key assumptions are disclosed in note 22.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill intangible asset has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash ows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Further details are given in note 15.
Sales related rebates and discounts The group agrees to pay customers various amounts in the form of sales related rebates and discounts.
Management makes estimates on an ongoing basis to assess customer performance and sales volume to calculate total amounts earned to be recorded as deductions from revenue.
Further details are given in note 3.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identied as the board of directors of the company.
For management purposes, the group is organised into business units and has six reportable segments as follows: GB stills United Kingdom excluding Northern Ireland GB carbs United Kingdom excluding Northern Ireland Ireland Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland France Brazil International These business units sell soft drinks into their respective markets.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on brand contribution.
This is dened as revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product.
Such costs include brand specic advertising and promotion costs, raw materials and marginal production and distribution costs.
However, group nancing including finance costs and income taxes are managed on a group basis and are not allocated to reportable segments.
Transfer prices between reportable segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
52 weeks ended GB stills GB carbs Total GB Ireland France International Brazil Total 30 September 2018 m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 280.7 610.6 891.3 174.0 269.2 49.0 120.1 1,503.6 Brand contribution 116.6 251.7 368.3 57.1 81.4 10.2 24.8 541.8 Non-brand advertising & promotion 11.2 Fixed supply chain 113.7 Selling costs 79.5 Overheads and other costs 131.4 Adjusted operating profit 206.0 Finance costs 19.8 Adjusting items 40.4 profit before tax 145.8 Included within administration expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Overheads and other costs relate to central expenses including salaries, IT maintenance, depreciation and amortisation.
Included within selling and distribution costs in the consolidated income statement.
See Non-GAAP reconciliations for further details on adjusting items.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
Segmental reporting continued 52 weeks ended GB stills GB carbs Total GB Ireland France International Brazil Total 1 October 2017 Restated m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 269.3 555.3 824.6 154.7 281.4 46.3 123.5 1,430.5 Brand contribution 112.0 234.4 346.4 49.6 81.9 6.9 23.2 508.0 Non-brand advertising & promotion 10.1 Fixed supply chain 105.1 Selling costs 81.7 Overheads and other costs 115.6 Adjusted operating profit 195.5 Finance costs 20.1 Adjusting items 36.6 profit before tax 138.8 Included within administration expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Overheads and other costs relate to central expenses including salaries, IT maintenance, depreciation and amortisation, and have been restated to exclude acquisition related amortisation.
These items have been restated to include acquisition related amortisation for 2017.
Geographic information Revenues from external customers The analysis below is based on the location where the sale originated.
2018 2017 m m Restated United Kingdom 941.5 869.4 Republic of Ireland 149.6 134.4 France 274.2 287.0 Brazil 120.1 123.5 Other 18.2 16.2 Total revenue 1,503.6 1,430.5 Non-current assets 2018 2017 m m United Kingdom 490.1 417.4 Republic of Ireland 135.5 123.0 France 237.5 237.4 Brazil 110.0 142.8 Other 2.3 2.7 Total 975.4 923.3 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other receivables.
Operating profit This is stated after charging crediting : 2018 2017 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 770.3 724.3 Including write-down of inventories to net realisable value 0.4 1.5 Research and development expenditure written off 8.3 10.2 Net foreign currency exchange differences 2.4 8.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 48.5 40.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 18.4 19.0 Reversal of impairments of trademarks Note 15 11.5 9.2 Impairments of trademarks Note 15 6.6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 4.8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4.5 1.6 Government grants 4.4 4.5 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 9.2 10.4 Disclosed as other income 108 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.
Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 m m Audit of the group financial statements 0.2 0.2 Audit of subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 Total audit services 0.8 0.8 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total non-audit services 0.1 0.1 Total fees 0.9 0.9 8.
Staff costs 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 165.6 153.2 Social security costs 26.6 26.5 Net pension charge 11.3 12.4 Expense of share based compensation note 27 5.6 6.3 209.1 198.4 2018 2017 m m Directors emoluments 2.9 2.8 Aggregate gains made by directors on exercise of options 2018 2017 No.
Number of directors accruing benets under dened benefit schemes The average monthly number of employees during the period was made up as follows: 2018 2017 No.
Finance income and costs 2018 2017 m m Finance income Bank deposits 1.0 1.0 Ineffectiveness in respect of fair value hedges 1.1 Total finance income 1.0 2.1 Finance costs Bank loans, overdrafts and loan notes 20.8 21.1 Unwind of discount on deferred consideration 4.9 Other charges 0.3 Ineffectiveness in respect of cash ow hedges 0.5 Total finance costs 21.3 26.3 Net finance costs 20.3 24.2 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
Taxation a Tax on profit on continuing operations 2018 2017 m m Income statement Current income tax Current income tax charge 23.0 30.3 Amounts over under provided in previous years 0.4 2.1 Total current income tax charge 22.6 32.4 Deferred income tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6.1 3.8 Amounts over provided in previous years 1.4 Total deferred tax charge credit 6.1 5.2 Total tax charge in the income statement 28.7 27.2 Statement of comprehensive income expense Deferred tax on dened benefit plans 5.5 4.2 Deferred tax in respect of cash ow hedges accounted for in the hedging reserve 0.5 1.7 Tax on exchange differences accounted for in the translation reserve 6.1 Deferred tax on other temporary differences 0.1 Total tax charge in the statement of comprehensive income expense 5.0 8.5 Statement of changes in equity Current tax on share options exercised 0.4 0.1 Deferred tax on share options granted to employees 2.0 Total tax credit in the statement of changes in equity 0.4 2.1 b Reconciliation of the total tax charge The tax expense in the consolidated income statement is higher 2017: higher than the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 19.0% 2017: 19.5%.
The differences are reconciled below: 2018 2017 m m profit before tax 145.8 138.8 profit multiplied by the UK average rate of corporation tax of 19.0% 2017: 19.5% 27.7 27.1 Permanent differences 3.3 5.7 Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax liability 2.4 5.1 Current tax deferred tax rate differential 0.9 0.8 Deferred tax write off 0.8 Tax over under provided in previous years 0.4 0.7 Overseas tax rate differences 1.4 1.2 28.7 27.2 Effective income tax rate 19.7% 19.6% Permanent differences have decreased in comparison to the prior year due to the one-off inclusion in 2017 of permanent differences in Ireland relating to property disposals.
An additional deferred tax credit has arisen in the period as a result of a further reduction in the enacted French corporate income tax rate from 28% to 25% 2017: 33.33% to 28%.
The deferred tax balances have been re-measured based on the tax rate expected to apply on reversal.
The increase in overseas tax rate difference reects the changing profit mix arising from overseas profits.
The pre-adjusted effective tax rate for future periods will continue to be impacted by the profit mix arising from the groups operations.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION c Income tax 2018 2017 m m Income tax recoverable 2.3 4.5 Income tax payable 2.2 12.4 0.1 7.9 Income tax payable has reduced mainly as a result of the final resolution of a historical tax provision in the UK dating from 2005 2006 which was settled during the year.
d Uncertain tax positions Where the outcome of jurisdictional tax laws are subject to interpretation, management relies on its best judgement and estimates the likely outcomes to ensure all uncertain tax positions are adequately provided for in the Group Financial Statements.
Settlement of tax provisions could potentially result in future cash tax payments however these are not expected to result in an increased tax charge as they have been provided for in accordance with managements best estimates of the most likely outcomes.
e Unrecognised tax items The Group considers that there will be no direct or withholding tax consequences of future remittances of earnings from overseas subsidiaries and therefore that no temporary difference arises in respect of its overseas investments.
Accordingly, there is no amount of deferred tax provided or unprovided in respect of investments in subsidiaries.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of losses that have arisen in both Ireland and Brazil.
In relation to the latter, a deferred tax asset of 5.4m 2017: 7.3m has been recognised in respect of losses and other temporary differences in an entity where losses have been made in the prior period.
These are expected to be recoverable on an ongoing basis due to anticipated increase in profits in subsequent periods.
All existing tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely, however in Brazil losses may only be utilised to the extent of 30% of taxable profit in each year.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of unused losses from prior periods, which at current exchange rates amounts to 5.4m 2017: 5.7m.
f Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax liability Accelerated capital allowances 15.4 10.1 Acquisition fair value adjustments 32.8 32.7 Post employment benets 26.9 18.4 Deferred tax liability 75.1 61.2 Deferred tax asset Employee incentive plan 4.8 5.0 Unutilised losses incurred in overseas jurisdictions 8.6 10.1 Other temporary differences 4.8 2.2 Deferred tax asset 18.2 17.3 Net deferred tax liability 56.9 43.9 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2018 2017 m m Net deferred tax assets 5.6 7.5 Net deferred tax liabilities 62.5 51.4 56.9 43.9 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
Taxation continued f Deferred tax continued The deferred tax included in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Employee incentive plan 0.2 0.4 Accelerated capital allowances 5.7 0.5 Post employment benets 3.0 2.7 Acquisition fair value adjustments 0.6 6.0 Utilised losses incurred in overseas jurisdictions 0.4 1.0 Other temporary differences 2.6 0.8 Deferred tax charge 6.1 5.2 In 2018 there was a 2.4m credit 2017: 5.1m credit in the consolidated income statement arising from the reduction in the French corporate income tax rate.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to the ordinary equity shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following table reects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2018 2017 m m Basic earnings per share profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 117.1 111.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share 263.7 263.0 Basic earnings per share 44.4p 42.4p Diluted earnings per share profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 117.1 111.6 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share schemes 1.7 1.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for diluted earnings per share 265.4 264.3 Diluted earnings per share 44.1p 42.2p The group has granted share options to employees which have the potential to dilute basic EPS in the future which have not been included in the calculation of diluted EPS as they are antidilutive for the periods presented see note 27.
Dividends paid and proposed 2018 2017 m m Declared and paid during the period Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for 2017: 19.3p per share 2016: 17.5p per share 50.8 45.9 Interim dividend for 2018: 7.9p per share 2017: 7.2p per share 20.9 19.0 Dividends paid 71.7 64.9 Proposed Final dividend for 2018: 20.3p per share 2017: 19.3p per share 53.7 50.9 112 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 13.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Freehold Leasehold ttings, land and land and Plant and tools and Assets under buildings buildings machinery equipment construction Total m m m m m m At 2 October 2016 net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 91.2 22.6 101.0 41.3 126.3 382.4 Exchange differences 0.7 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.3 Additions 3.7 14.5 14.1 92.3 124.6 Transfers on completion 29.2 10.2 99.3 10.7 149.4 Acquisition of subsidiary 11.5 1.6 1.0 14.1 Disposals at cost 13.3 5.2 56.2 17.8 92.5 Depreciation eliminated on disposals 3.1 0.1 51.6 18.2 73.0 Depreciation charge for the period 3.5 1.5 23.3 12.0 40.3 At 1 October 2017 net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 121.2 26.3 189.2 55.6 69.3 461.6 Exchange differences 3.9 2.5 0.5 6.9 Additions 1.6 0.9 11.8 11.1 97.5 122.9 Transfers on completion 4.0 0.9 60.3 12.9 78.1 Disposals at cost 1.6 26.9 16.2 44.7 Impairment 4.8 4.8 Depreciation eliminated on disposals 0.7 24.0 15.5 40.2 Depreciation charge for the period 4.6 0.8 29.6 13.5 48.5 At 30 September 2018 net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 112.6 27.3 226.3 65.4 88.2 519.8 At 30 September 2018 Cost gross carrying amount 168.0 44.0 501.7 207.4 88.2 1,009.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 55.4 16.7 275.4 142.0 489.5 Net carrying amount 112.6 27.3 226.3 65.4 88.2 519.8 At 1 October 2017 Cost gross carrying amount 166.9 42.2 460.2 199.6 69.3 938.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 45.7 15.9 271.0 144.0 476.6 Net carrying amount 121.2 26.3 189.2 55.6 69.3 461.6 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14.
A list of the trademarks held in respect of the Britvic Ireland and Britvic France segments is shown in note 15.
Britvic Brazil Trademarks in Brazil have been allocated useful economic lives of 14.3 14.8 years.
As at 30 September 2018 these intangible assets have an average remaining useful life of 12 years.
Franchise rights Franchise rights represent franchise agreements acquired as part of the Britvic Ireland business combination which provides long term rights to distribute certain soft drinks.
In the unlikely event that it was deemed that the contract might not be renewed then the useful economic life would need to be reduced to its remaining contractual life.
As at 30 September 2018 this would increase the annual amortisation for franchise rights by 1.9m to 2.6m.
Customer lists Britvic France Customer lists recognised on the acquisition of Britvic France relate to those customer relationships acquired.
These intangible assets have been allocated useful economic lives of 20 years.
At 30 September 2018 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of 12 years.
Britvic Ireland Customer lists represent those customer relationships acquired which are valued in respect of the grocery and wholesale businesses.
These customer lists have been allocated useful economic lives of between 10 and 20 years.
At 30 September 2018 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of between 1 and 9 years.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Britvic Brazil Customer lists recognised on acquisitions in Britvic Brazil relate to those customer relationships acquired.
These intangible assets have been allocated useful economic lives of between 4 and 9 years.
At 30 September 2018 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of between 1 and 7 years.
Software costs Software is capitalised at cost.
As at 30 September 2018 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of up to 7 years.
Goodwill Goodwill is subject to an impairment review at each reporting date in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Further detail is provided in note 15.
Intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of Britvic Ireland, Britvic France and Britvic Brazil are valued in local currency and translated to sterling at the reporting date.
Impairment testing of intangible assets Carrying amount of goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives The carrying amount of goodwill acquired through business combinations, and trademarks with indefinite lives recognised as part of fair value exercises on acquisitions, are attributable to the following cash-generating units: 2018 2017 m m Goodwill CGUs Britvic GB Orchid 6.0 6.0 Tango 8.9 8.9 Robinsons 38.6 38.6 Britvic Soft Drinks business BSD 7.8 7.8 Britvic Ireland 22.1 21.9 Britvic France 89.7 88.8 Britvic Brazil 30.2 37.5 203.3 209.5 2018 2017 m m Trademarks with indefinite lives Britvic Ireland CGUs Britvic 4.4 4.4 Cidona 5.9 5.9 MiWadi 9.1 9.0 Ballygowan 23.5 11.7 Club 15.1 14.9 58.0 45.9 Britvic France CGUs Teisseire 50.9 50.4 Moulin fide Valdonne 4.2 4.1 Pressade 4.8 4.8 59.9 59.3 Total Trademarks with indefinite lives 117.9 105.2 Goodwill amounts for Britvic GB were recognised on acquisitions made within Britvic GB.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
Impairment testing of intangible assets continued Trademarks with indefinite lives were recognised as part of the fair value exercises relating to the 2007 acquisition of Britvic Ireland and the 2010 acquisition of Britvic France.
They were allocated by senior management to the individual cash-generating units for impairment testing as shown in the table above.
Goodwill in Brazil comprises goodwill relating to the acquisition of Ebba and Bela Ischia.
Management consider this to be a single CGU based on the integration of Bela Ischia into the overall Britvic Brazil business.
Method of impairment testing Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets are undertaken by senior management annually.
Value in use calculations are performed for each cash-generating unit using cash ow projections and are based on the latest annual financial budgets prepared by senior management and approved by the board of directors.
Senior management expectations are formed in line with performance to date and experience, as well as available external market data.
Discount rates reect senior managements estimate of the pre-tax cost of capital adjusted where necessary to reect the different risks of different countries in which the group operates.
The estimated pre-tax cost of capital is the benchmark used by management to assess operating performance and to evaluate future capital investment proposals.
The group has considered the impact of the current economic climate in determining the appropriate discount rate to use in impairment testing.
The same discount rate is relevant to all CGUs in each country as the group only operates in the soft drinks manufacturing and distribution market sector.
The applicable pre-tax discount rate for cash ow projections is: At At 30 September 1 October 2018 2017 Britvic GB 6.2% 7.1% Britvic Ireland 7.3% 8.1% Britvic France 7.1% 8.1% Britvic Brazil 12.9% 12.8% Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The following describes each key assumption on which management has based its cash ow projections to undertake impairment testing of goodwill.
Volume growth rates reect senior management expectations of volume growth based on growth achieved to date, current strategy and expected market trends and will vary according to each CGU.
Marginal contribution being revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product.
Marginal contribution is based on financial budgets approved by the Britvic plc board.
Key assumptions are made within these budgets about pricing, discounts and costs based on historical data, current strategy and expected market trends.
Advertising and promotional spend financial budgets approved by senior management are used to determine the value assigned to advertising and promotional spend.
This is based on the planned spend for year one and strategic intent thereafter.
Raw materials price, production and distribution costs, selling costs and other overhead ination the basis used to determine the value assigned to ination is the forecast increase in consumer price indices in the relevant market.
This has been used in all value in use calculations performed.
Cash ows are based on the latest approved budgets for the following year and forecasts for up to a further four years.
The applicable long term growth rates are: At At 30 September 1 October 2018 2017 Britvic GB 1.6% 2.2% Britvic Ireland 2.0% 2.0% Britvic France 1.8% 1.7% Britvic Brazil 2.6% 2.9% Intangible assets with nite lives No indicators of impairment were identied on intangible assets with nite lives and no impairment was recognised against these assets.
Results and conclusions During the 52 week period ended 30 September 2018 an impairment of 11.5m from prior years was reversed on the Ballygowan brand in Britvic Ireland due to the strong performance of the brand during the current period together with managements expectation for increased future cash ow for the brand.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION During the 52 week period ended 1 October 2017 an impairment of 4.4m was made on the Fruite trademark in Britvic France and an impairment of 2.2m was made on the Britvic Brand in Britvic Ireland.
Additionally 9.2m of impairment from prior years was reversed on the Ballygowan brand in Britvic Ireland.
Other than for the Ballygowan brand the directors do not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used to calculate the value in use of remaining goodwill and intangible assets would result in any impairment reversal of impairment.
For the Ballygowan brand where a reversal of impairment has been made during the current period, an increase in the discount rate by 0.5% would have reduced the reversal from 11.5m to 7.6m.
Conversely a decrease in the discount rate of 0.5% would have resulted in the full reversal of the impairment of the brand of 15.2m.
Inventories 2018 2017 m m Raw materials 64.2 62.2 Finished goods 67.2 72.9 Consumable stores 12.7 11.3 Returnable packaging 0.4 0.3 Total inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value 144.5 146.7 17.
Trade and other receivables current 2018 2017 m m Trade receivables 313.4 283.7 Other receivables 18.5 16.1 Prepayments 24.9 21.3 356.8 321.1 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on credit terms usual for the markets in which the group operates.
As at 1 October 2018, trade receivables at nominal value of 4.3m 2017: 4.3m were impaired and fully provided against.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: Total m At 2 October 2016 3.0 Acquisition of subsidiary 0.7 Exchange differences 0.1 Charge for period 3.4 Utilised 0.1 Unused amounts reversed 2.6 At 1 October 2017 4.3 Exchange differences 0.6 Charge for period 4.6 Utilised 3.8 Unused amounts reversed 0.2 At 30 September 2018 4.3 The group takes the following factors into account when considering whether a provision for impairment should be made for trade receivables: Payment performance history: and External information available regarding credit ratings.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor 30 30 60 60 90 Total impaired days days days 90 120 days 120 days m m m m m m m 2018 313.4 265.4 28.1 5.8 3.4 0.8 9.9 2017 283.7 235.0 31.9 7.8 2.3 0.6 6.1 The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is considered good.
Refer to note 24 for details of the groups credit risk policy.
The group monitors the credit quality of trade receivables by reference to credit ratings available externally.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18.
Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 41.0 25.7 Deposits 68.5 56.8 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash ows 109.5 82.5 During the year, short-term deposits are made for varying periods depending on the immediate cash requirements of the group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to the book value.
At 30 September 2018 the group had available 342.0m 2017: 377.7m of un-drawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
These facilities have a maturity date of November 2021.
Where available, the group operates cash pooling arrangements whereby the net cash position across a number of accounts is recognised for interest purposes.
Value Issued, called up and fully paid ordinary shares of shares At 2 October 2016 262,871,256 52,574,251 Shares issued relating to incentive schemes for employees 925,744 185,149 At 1 October 2017 263,797,000 52,759,400 Shares issued relating to incentive schemes for employees 809,911 161,982 At 30 September 2018 264,606,911 52,921,382 The issued share capital is wholly comprised of ordinary shares carrying one voting right each.
The nominal value of each ordinary share is 0.20.
There are no restrictions placed on the distribution of dividends, or the return of capital on a winding up or otherwise.
Of the issued and fully paid ordinary shares, 724,335 shares 2017: 585,025 shares are own shares held by an employee benefit trust.
This equates to 144,867 2017: 117,005 at 0.20 par value of each ordinary share.
These shares are held for the purpose of satisfying the share schemes detailed in note 27.
An explanation of the groups capital management process and objectives is set out in note 24.
Other reserves Hedging Translation Capital Merger reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m At 2 October 2016 3.8 55.3 0.1 87.3 146.5 Losses in the period in respect of cash ow hedges 3.2 3.2 Amounts recycled to the income statement in respect of cash ow hedges 7.0 7.0 Deferred tax in respect of cash ow hedges 1.7 1.7 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1.3 1.3 Tax on exchange differences 6.1 6.1 Movement in non-distributable profit 0.1 0.1 At 1 October 2017 4.7 47.9 87.3 130.5 Losses in the period in respect of cash ow hedges 2.6 2.6 Amounts recycled to the income statement in respect of cash ow hedges 0.4 0.4 Deferred tax in respect of cash ow hedges 0.5 0.5 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 35.1 35.1 At 30 September 2018 7.2 12.8 87.3 92.9 118 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share premium account The share premium account is used to record the excess of proceeds over the nominal value on the issue of shares.
Own shares reserve The own shares reserve is used to record purchases and issues by the group of its own shares, which will be distributed to employees as and when share awards made under the Britvic employee share plans vest.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve records the effective portion of movements in the fair value of forward exchange contracts, interest rate and cross currency swaps that have been designated as part of a cash ow hedge relationship.
Translation reserve The translation reserve includes cumulative net exchange differences on translation into the presentational currency of items recorded in group entities with a non-sterling functional currency net of amounts recognised in respect of net investment hedges.
Merger reserve The merger reserve arose as a result of the non pre-emptive share placement which took place on 21 May 2010.
It was executed using a structure which created a merger reserve under Section 612-3 of the Companies Act 2006.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2018 2017 m m Current Finance leases 0.7 1.0 Bank loans 58.4 23.1 Private placement notes 112.9 66.3 Less: unamortised issue costs 0.6 0.7 Total current 171.4 89.7 2018 2017 m m Non-current Finance leases 0.9 2.0 Bank loans 0.1 0.6 Private placement notes 598.0 581.7 Less: unamortised issue costs 1.3 1.6 Total non-current 597.7 582.7 Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 769.1 672.4 Total interest bearing loans and borrowings comprise the following: 2018 2017 m m Finance leases 1.6 3.0 2007 Notes 109.6 107.0 2009 Notes 91.3 109.8 2010 Notes 88.6 133.1 2014 Notes 122.5 120.1 2017 Notes 175.0 175.0 2018 Notes 120.6 Accrued interest 3.3 3.0 Bank loans 58.5 23.7 Capitalised issue costs 1.9 2.3 769.1 672.4 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued Analysis of changes in interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2018 2017 m m At the beginning of the period 672.4 779.8 Acquisition of subsidiary 3.3 Acquired debt repaid 2.4 Net movement on revolving credit facility 35.3 91.4 Other loans repaid 0.7 0.6 Partial repayment of private placement notes 54.9 119.6 Drawdown of 2018 2017 private placement notes 120.3 175.0 Issue costs 0.4 0.7 Repayment of finance leases 1.1 0.8 Amortisation of issue costs and write off of nancing fees 0.6 0.6 Net translation gain loss and fair value adjustment 2.7 70.5 Accrued interest 0.3 0.3 At the end of the period 769.1 672.4 Derivatives hedging balance sheet debt 84.1 87.0 Debt translated at contracted rate 685.0 585.4 Represents the element of the fair value of interest rate currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the private placement notes.
This amount has been disclosed separately to demonstrate the impact of foreign exchange movements which are included in interest bearing loans and borrowings.
Bank loans Loans outstanding at 30 September 2018 attract interest at an average rate of 0.68% for euro denominated loans and 4.44% for Brazilian Real denominated loans 2017: 0.52% for euro denominated loans and 4.56% for Brazilian Real denominated loans.
Private placement notes The group holds loan notes with coupons and maturities as shown in the following table: Year issued Maturity date Amount Interest terms 2007 February 2019 13m UK xed at 5.94% 2007 February 2019 $126m US$ xed at 6.00% 2009 December 2019 $120m US$ xed at 5.24% 2010 December 2020 December 2022 $113m US$ xed at 4.04% 4.14% 2014 February 2021 February 2024 35m UK xed at 3.40% 3.92% 2014 February 2024 February 2026 $114m US$ xed at 4.09% 4.24% 2017 February 2025 February 2032 120m UK xed at 2.31% 2.76% 2017 February 2027 February 2032 55m UK LIBOR plus 1.32% 1.36% 2018 June 2028 June 2033 65m UK xed at 2.66% 2.88% 2018 June 2030 20m UK LIBOR plus 1.06% 2018 June 2028 40m EURIBOR plus 0.65% The group entered into a number of cross-currency swap agreements in relation to the loan notes to manage any foreign exchange risk on interest rates or on the repayment of the principal borrowed.
These swaps expire in line with the loan notes and are discussed in note 25.
See note 24 for an analysis of the interest rate prole and the maturity of the borrowings and related interest rate swaps.
Pensions Net asset liability by scheme 2018 GB ROI NI France Total m m m m m Present value of benefit obligation 658.2 87.6 30.2 4.0 780.0 Fair value of plan assets 739.2 82.2 45.5 866.9 Net asset liability 81.0 5.4 15.3 4.0 86.9 120 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2017 GB ROI NI France Total m m m m m Present value of benefit obligation 726.1 83.5 35.3 3.9 848.8 Fair value of plan assets 759.2 78.1 42.7 880.0 Net liability asset 33.1 5.4 7.4 3.9 31.2 GB Schemes The groups principal pension scheme for GB employees, the Britvic Pension Plan BPP has both a final salary dened benefit section and dened contribution section.
The dened benefit section was closed to new members from 1 August 2002 and closed to future accrual for active members from 1 April 2011, with active members moving to the dened contribution section for future service benets.
The BPP is a limited partner of Britvic Scottish Limited Partnership Britvic SLP, which in turn is a limited partner in both Britvic Property Partnership Britvic PP and Britvic Brands LLP.
Britvic SLP, Britvic PP and Britvic Brands LLP are all consolidated by the group.
The investment held by BPP does not represent a plan asset for accounting purposes and is therefore not included in the fair value of the plan assets.
Certain properties and group brands have been transferred to Britvic PP and Britvic Brands LLP respectively, all of which are leased back to Britvic Soft Drinks Limited.
The group retains operational exibility over the properties and brands including the ability to substitute the properties and brands held by Britvic PP and Britvic Brands respectively.
The BPP is entitled to a share of the profits in Britvic SLP until 2026.
At the end of this period, the partnership capital allocated to the BPP will be changed to an amount equal to any funding deficit of the BPP at this time, up to a maximum of 105m.
Contributions are paid into the dened benefit section of the BPP as determined by the Trustee, agreed by the company and certied by an independent actuary in the Schedule of Contributions.
In addition to the expected partnership income of at least 5m per annum, the group will make a payment to the BPP of 15m by 31 December 2018.
An additional contribution of 15m will be made by 31 December 2019 due to the formal actuarial valuation in 2016 revealing these contributions are necessary to help return the BPP to full funding on a self-sufciency basis by 31 March 2026.
During this year 19.9m of additional contributions were paid to the BPP, of which 14.9m was paid by the group and 5.0m relates to income received from the pension funding partnership PFP structure.
The contributions required are determined based on the secondary funding deficit revealed at the last triennial actuarial funding valuation, currently at 31 March 2016.
The secondary funding deficit will always differ from the accounting valuation surplus deficit above.
Accounting standards require all companies to discount their projected cashows at a standard rate based on high quality corporate bonds and not to allow for prudence when calculating the value of the liabilities.
This is in contrast to the funding valuation where prudence is a requirement when assessing the value of the liabilities.
This, in combination with the Plan being invested in relatively low risk assets as part of the funding strategy agreed, results in the funding valuation being expected to show a higher deficit than the accounting valuation.
The benets of adopting a low risk approach to funding is that there is less volatility expected in the Companys future contribution requirements.
In addition when comparing the surplus deficit, consideration of the different dates of valuations need to be taken into account.
The accounting valuation is assessed at the current balance sheet date of 30 September 2018, whereas the contributions agreed were based on the funding valuation at 31 March 2016.
The amount recognised as an expense in relation to the BPP dened contribution scheme in the consolidated income statement for 2018 was 10.1m 2017: 10.6m.
Britvics business in GB also has a secured unfunded, unregistered retirement benefit scheme called The Britvic Executive Top Up Scheme BETUS which provides benets for members who have historically exceeded the Earnings Cap, or the Lifetime Allowance whilst members of the dened benefit section of the BPP.
BETUS closed to future accrual on 10 April 2011 which coincided with the closure of the dened benefit section of the BPP.
IFRIC 14 is applicable for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
The Trustee of the Plan previously made a change to the Rules of the Plan to clarify that any surplus may be returned directly to the Company without prior Trustee approval on the death or leaving of the final member of the Plan.
Furthermore, any such refund should be treated as income for tax purposes.
These two points should mean that IFRIC 14 does not have any practical impact on the Plan and so no allowance for it and, in particular, no allowance for the asset ceiling has been made in the calculated gures.
BETUS is treated as unfunded for the purposes of IAS 19, so IFRIC 14 is not applicable.
Republic of Ireland scheme The Britvic Ireland Pension Plan BIPP is a dened benefit pension plan.
Following legislative changes made in 2012 no deficit recovery contributions are currently required.
The Trustee has been undertaking investment fide-risking to protect the on-going funding position achieved as a result of the 2012 changes.
The latest triennial valuation was carried out as at 1 January 2018.
The scheme remains open to future accrual for current members.
The amount recognised as an expense in relation to the Irish dened contribution schemes in the consolidated income statement for 2018 was 0.6m 2017: 0.8m.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Pensions continued Northern Ireland scheme The Britvic Northern Ireland Pension Plan BNIPP is a dened benefit pension plan which was closed to new members on 28 February 2006, and since this date new employees have been eligible to join a Stakeholder plan with Legal & General.
The latest formal actuarial valuation for contribution purposes was carried out as at 31 December 2014.
Contributions are paid into the BNIPP as determined by the Trustee, agreed by the company and certied by an independent actuary in the Schedule of Contributions.
Additional contributions of 1.5m per annum will be paid on a monthly basis up to 30 June 2022.
The scheme remains open to future accrual for current members though the group are currently consulting with members and trustees on closing the scheme for future accruals.
France schemes Britvic France operates two dened benefit schemes: in the first, employees receive long-service cash payments at various stages throughout their careers.
For the second, employees receive a lump sum at retirement.
Payment amounts are dependent upon salary and service with the company.
The schemes are unfunded therefore these benets are paid directly as they fall due.
All group pension schemes are administered by trustees who are independent of the groups nances, except for the Britvic France schemes which are operated directly by the company.
Net benefit expense 2018 2017 Total Total m m Current service cost 1.7 1.8 Net interest on net dened benefit asset liability 1.3 0.1 Curtailment settlement gain 0.2 1.1 Net expense 0.2 0.6 The curtailment settlement gain in the prior period arose due to the retirement of executives and the exchange of their benets in the BETUS for a cash lump sum recognised in administration expenses.
Other than stated below, the net expense detailed above is recognised in arriving at net profit from continuing operations before tax and finance costs income, and is included within cost of sales, selling and distribution costs and administration expenses.
Taken to the statement of comprehensive income 2018 2017 Total Total m m Actual return loss on scheme assets 19.1 23.8 Less: Amounts included in net interest expense 22.8 20.4 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense 3.7 44.2 Gains due to demographic assumptions 6.2 7.9 Gains due to financial assumptions 29.8 62.4 Experience gains 1.0 0.6 Remeasurement gains taken to the statement of comprehensive income 33.3 26.7 Movements in present value of benefit obligation 2018 GB ROI NI France Total m m m m m At 1 October 2017 726.1 83.5 35.3 3.9 848.8 Exchange differences 0.9 0.9 Settlement gain 0.2 0.2 Current service cost 1.2 0.1 0.4 1.7 Member contributions 0.3 0.3 Interest cost on benefit obligation 18.8 1.8 0.8 0.1 21.5 Benets paid 52.3 2.8 0.8 0.1 56.0 Remeasurement gains 34.4 2.7 5.2 0.1 37.0 At 30 September 2018 658.2 87.6 30.2 4.0 780.0 Weighted average duration of the liabilities 21 years 23 years 19 years 15 years 122 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2017 GB ROI NI France Total m m m m m At 2 October 2016 805.4 91.3 39.9 3.9 940.5 Exchange differences 1.5 0.1 1.6 Settlement gain 0.9 0.2 1.1 Current service cost 1.4 0.1 0.3 1.8 Member contributions 0.3 0.3 Interest cost on benefit obligation 18.0 1.3 0.9 0.1 20.3 Benets paid 40.4 1.7 1.4 0.1 43.6 Remeasurement gains 56.0 10.4 4.2 0.4 71.0 At 1 October 2017 726.1 83.5 35.3 3.9 848.8 Weighted average duration of the liabilities 22 years 23 years 21 years 15 years Movements in fair value of plan assets 2018 GB ROI NI Total m m m m At 1 October 2017 759.2 78.1 42.7 880.0 Exchange differences 0.9 0.9 Interest income on plan assets 20.1 1.6 1.1 22.8 Losses return on scheme assets excluding interest income 7.7 3.2 0.8 3.7 Employer contributions 19.9 0.9 1.7 22.5 Member contributions 0.3 0.3 Benets paid 52.3 2.8 0.8 55.9 At 30 September 2018 739.2 82.2 45.5 866.9 2017 GB ROI NI Total m m m m At 2 October 2016 804.9 77.7 40.4 923.0 Exchange differences 1.4 1.4 Interest income on plan assets 18.4 1.1 0.9 20.4 Losses return on scheme assets excluding interest income 43.7 1.7 1.2 44.2 Employer contributions 20.0 1.0 1.6 22.6 Member contributions 0.3 0.3 Benets paid 40.4 1.7 1.4 43.5 At 1 October 2017 759.2 78.1 42.7 880.0 Principal assumptions The assets and liabilities of the pension schemes were valued on an IAS 19 Revised basis at 30 September 2018, by Towers Watson BPP and the French schemes, Invesco BIPP and Buck BNIPP.
Financial assumptions 2018 GB ROI NI France % % % % Discount rate 2.95 2.00 3.00 1.30 1.80 Rate of compensation increase n a 2.00 3.55 2.00 3.00 Pension increases 1.90 3.00 1.90 2.25 Ination assumption 3.25 1.70 2.25 2017 GB ROI NI France % % % % Discount rate 2.70 2.10 2.65 1.30 1.80 Rate of compensation increase n a 2.00 3.70 2.00 3.00 Pension increases 1.90 2.95 1.95 2.40 Ination assumption 3.20 1.60 2.40 0.02 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Pensions continued Demographic assumptions The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
This is based on standard actuarial tables, which for the BPP are known as SAPS Series 1.
An allowance for future improvements in longevity has also been included.
The following life expectancy assumptions have been used: 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 GB ROI NI GB ROI NI Years Years Years Years Years Years Current pensioners at age 65 males 21.5 21.2 21.1 21.6 21.1 22.0 Current pensioners at age 65 females 24.0 23.7 23.7 24.1 23.6 25.3 Future pensioners currently aged 45 at age 65 males 22.9 23.6 22.5 23.0 23.5 23.4 Future pensioners currently aged 45 at age 65 females 25.6 25.9 25.3 25.6 25.8 26.8 Sensitivities Changes in assumptions used for determining retirement benefit costs and obligations may have a material impact on the consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
The main assumptions are the discount rate, the rate of ination and the assumed mortality rate.
The following table provides an estimate of the potential impact of each of these variables on the principal pension plans.
Change in Impact on GB Impact on ROI Impact on NI Impact on France Assumption assumption liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities Discount rate Increase by 0.5% Decrease by 63.7m Decrease by 9.1m Decrease by 2.5m Decrease by 0.3m Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 73.0m Increase by 10.5m Increase by 2.7m Increase by 0.3m Ination rate Increase by 0.25% Increase by 18.5m Increase by 2.2m Increase by 0.9m Increase by 0.2m Decrease by 0.25% Decrease by 17.8m Decrease by 2.2m Decrease by 0.8m Decrease by 0.1m Longevity rates Increase by 1 year Increase by 23.2m Increase by 2.2m Increase by 1.1m n a The sensitivity to ination assumption includes corresponding changes to future salary applicable only to France and future pension increase assumptions.
Categories of scheme assets as a percentage of the fair value of total scheme assets 2018 GB ROI NI Total Total m m m m % UK equities 10.7 10.7 1 Overseas equities 23.7 26.9 11.7 62.3 7 Properties 30.6 30.6 4 Corporate bonds 374.9 4.5 6.4 385.8 44 Fixed interest gilts 44.3 6.4 50.7 6 Index linked gilts 8.8 8.8 1 Liability-driven investments 295.2 295.2 34 Cash and other assets 14.8 6.5 1.5 22.8 3 Total 739.2 82.2 45.5 866.9 100 2017 Restated GB ROI NI Total Total m m m m % UK equities 19.9 10.9 30.8 4 Overseas equities 23.0 31.4 10.7 65.1 7 Properties 23.4 3.4 26.8 3 Corporate bonds 374.1 6.0 380.1 43 Fixed interest gilts 43.3 6.1 49.4 6 Index linked gilts 8.2 8.2 1 Liability-driven investments 312.5 312.5 35 Cash and other assets 6.3 0.8 7.1 1 Total 759.2 78.1 42.7 880.0 100 These assets were previously shown in Index linked gilts but have been reclassied to xed interest gilts to better reect the underlying nature of these assets.
The fair values of the above equity and debt instruments are determined based on quoted market prices in active markets whereas the fair values of properties are not based on quoted market prices.
The xed interest and index linked asset classes include leveraged gilt funds.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Liability-driven investments are a portfolio of assets used in the GB scheme to hedge the exposure to changes in interest rates and ination.
It consists of equities, xed interest gilts and index linked gilts including leveraged gilt funds.
The fair value of these assets is derived from quoted market prices of the underlying funds held.
These funds are held as part of the strategy by the trustees of the GB scheme to invest in low risk assets that provide a hedge against interest rates and ination.
Normal contributions of 1.1m are expected to be paid into the dened benefit pension schemes during the 2019 financial year.
Additional contributions of 21.5m are expected to be paid into the dened benefit pension schemes during the 2019 financial year, of which 16.5m is expected to be paid by the group and 5.0m by the partnership.
Risks For dened contribution sections and plans, the groups liability is limited to the requirement to pay contributions on behalf of each employee.
In these arrangements the associated risks are borne by the members.
For dened benefit sections and plans, the group bears the risks of operation.
The main risk that the group runs in respect of the dened benefit schemes is that additional contributions are required to pay for the benets if investment returns are not sufficient.
The contributions required for the schemes are in general determined at each triennial actuarial funding valuation.
The key factors that will affect the need for additional contributions include levels of long-term ination and interest rates and the assessment of how long members are expected to live, along with the level of investment return achieved.
The level of investment return achieved is subject to a range of risks typical of the asset classes held, in particular market risk on equities, credit risk on corporate bonds and exposure to the property market.
The discount rates used to calculate the liabilities are set by reference to yields on high quality corporate bonds.
There is therefore a mismatch between the assets held and the way that the liabilities are calculated, meaning that the net balance sheet position disclosed under IAS 19 could uctuate.
For the BPP, the trustee holds the power to determine the contribution rates that the group should pay, although the group fully uses the opportunity to make representation to the trustee on this point.
The trustee of the BPP has implemented an investment strategy which consists of a diverse range of xed interest and index-linked securities, which provides a significant hedge against ination and interest rate risk.
The funding partnership mitigates the risk that additional cash contributions will be required after 31 March 2026, as the partnership will pay up to 105m to remove any funding deficit at 31 March 2026.
On 26 October 2018, the High Court ruled that Lloyds Banking Group must equalise the guaranteed minimum pensions GMP for men and women.
The judgement is likely to have an impact on the liabilities of both GB and Northern Ireland schemes.
For further details see note 32.
Trade and other payables current 2018 2017 m m Restated Trade payables 267.3 240.7 Other payables 26.4 32.4 Accruals 56.2 64.9 Other taxes and social security 74.4 46.9 424.3 384.9 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 60 90 day terms.
Financial risk management objectives and policies Overview The groups principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, borrowings and overdrafts, and cash and cash equivalents.
These financial instruments are used to manage interest rate and currency exposures, funding and liquidity requirements and share price exposure arising under the groups employee incentive schemes.
Other financial instruments which arise directly from the groups operations include trade receivables and payables see notes 17 and 23 respectively.
It is, and has always been, the groups policy that no derivative is entered into for trading or speculative purposes.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued The main risks arising from the groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Additionally, the group is exposed to commodity price risk and share price risk.
The board of directors review and agree policies for managing these risks as summarised below.
Interest rate risk The groups policy is to manage its interest cost by maintaining a mix of xed and variable rate debt.
The group enters into interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward rate agreements to hedge underlying debt obligations.
At 30 September 2018 after taking into account the effect of these instruments, approximately 60% of the groups borrowings are at a xed rate of interest 2017: 66%.
Interest rate risk table The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, on the groups profit before tax through the impact on oating rate borrowings and equity through the change in fair values of applicable derivative instruments.
Effect on Increase profit Effect on decrease in before tax equity basis points m m 2018 Sterling 200 1.0 44.9 200 1.0 53.5 Euro 200 2.7 2.2 200 2.7 2.3 2017 Sterling 200 0.6 37.3 200 0.6 43.5 Euro 200 3.2 2.8 200 3.2 3.0 Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is primarily in respect of exposure to uctuations to the sterling-euro, sterling-US dollar, euro-US dollar and US dollarBrazilian real rates of exchange.
The group has operations in euro-denominated countries and nances these partly through the use of foreign currency borrowings and cross currency swaps which hedge the translation risk of net investments in foreign operations.
Additionally cash generation from euro-denominated operations can be utilised to meet euro payment obligations in sterling denominated companies, providing a natural hedge.
The group also has transactional exposures arising from purchases of prime materials, capital expenditure and interest costs in currencies other than the functional currency of the individual group entities.
Non-functional currency purchases and interest costs are mainly in the currencies of US dollars and euros.
As at 30 September 2018 the group has hedged 77% 2017: 75% of forecast net exposures 12 months in advance using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Where funding is raised in a currency other than the currency ultimately required by the group, cross currency interest rate swaps are used to convert the cash ows to the required currency.
These swaps have the same duration and other critical terms as the underlying borrowing.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar, euro and Brazilian real exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the groups profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities and the groups equity due to changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts.
Effect on Increase profit Effect on decrease in before tax equity basis points m m 2018 Sterling euro 10 2.4 9.3 10 2.4 9.3 Sterling US dollar 10 0.4 1.2 10 0.4 1.2 Euro US dollar 10 1.3 1.3 10 1.3 1.3 US dollar Brazilian real 10 0.9 10 0.9 2017 Sterling euro 10 4.5 10.9 10 4.5 10.9 Sterling US dollar 10 1.7 10 1.7 Euro US dollar 10 0.3 1.2 10 0.3 1.2 US dollar Brazilian real 10 10 Credit risk The group trades only with recognised creditworthy third parties.
It is the groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verication procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the groups experience of bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount disclosed in note 17.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the group.
The group maintains a policy on counterparty credit exposures with banks and financial institutions arising from the use of derivatives and financial instruments.
This policy restricts the investment of surplus funds and entering into derivatives to counterparties with a minimum credit rating maintained by either Moodys, Standard & Poors or Fitch.
The level of exposure with counterparties at various ratings levels is also restricted under this policy.
The level of exposure and the credit worthiness of the groups banking counterparties is reviewed regularly to ensure compliance with this policy.
Commodity price risk The main commodity price risk arises in the purchases of prime materials, being polyethylene terephthalate PET, sugar, steel and frozen concentrated orange juice.
The group does not enter into derivative contracts to hedge commodity price risk however in the normal course of business where it is considered commercially advantageous, the group enters into xed price contracts with suppliers to protect against unfavourable commodity price changes.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk The group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using rolling cash ow forecasts.
These forecasts consider the maturity of both its financial investments and financial assets e. g. accounts receivable and other financial assets and projected cash ows from operations.
The objective of the groups liquidity policy is to maintain a balance between continuity of funds and exibility through the use of bank loans and overdrafts and long term private placement issuance.
The groups bank facility has a maturity of November 2021 and is unsecured.
As at 30 September 2018, the group had drawn down 58.0m 2017: 22.3m under this facility.
In addition to this facility the group had 0.5m of outstanding external borrowings all of which were secured 2017: 1.4m all of which were secured.
The table below summarises the maturity prole of the groups financial liabilities at 30 September 2018 based on contractual undiscounted payments and receipts including interest: Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Total 2018 m m m m Bank loans 58.4 0.2 58.6 Private placement notes 132.8 253.4 440.5 826.7 Derivatives hedging private placement notes payments 72.1 164.1 76.0 312.2 Derivatives hedging private placement notes receipts 78.9 170.2 77.5 326.6 126.0 247.3 439.0 812.3 Trade, other payables and contract liabilities excluding other taxes and social security 447.3 447.3 Finance leases 0.7 0.9 1.6 Other financial liabilities 0.4 0.1 0.5 632.8 248.5 439.0 1,320.3 Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Total 2017 m m m m Bank loans 23.1 0.6 23.7 Private placement notes 80.6 331.3 339.3 751.2 Derivatives hedging private placement notes payments 58.6 202.6 108.1 369.3 Derivatives hedging private placement notes receipts 65.8 215.9 109.4 391.1 73.4 318.0 338.0 729.4 Trade, other payables and contract liabilities excluding other taxes and social security 425.7 425.7 Finance leases 1.0 2.0 3.0 Other financial liabilities 1.7 0.2 1.9 524.9 320.8 338.0 1,183.7 In respect of the private placement notes, the periods when the cash ows are expected to occur as shown by the tables above and when they are expected to affect the consolidated income statement are the same.
Details with regard to derivative contracts are included in note 25.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Hierarchy The group uses the following valuation hierarchy to determine the carrying value of financial instruments that are measured at fair value: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Unless otherwise stated, the valuation basis used to calculate fair value is Level 2.
All derivatives are valued using discounted cash ow analysis using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments.
Forward currency contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
Cross currency interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash ows estimated and discounted based on quoted forward exchange rates and the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
The fair value of derivatives also includes the non-performance risk of both Britvic and its derivatives trading counterparties.
As in the prior year, the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities are considered to be reasonable approximations of their fair values, except for xed rate borrowings.
The fair value of the groups xed rate interest-bearing borrowings and loans at 30 September 2018 was 593.6m 2017: 601.8m compared to a carrying value of 597.5m 2017: 591.4m.
The fair value of the groups xed rate interest-bearing borrowings and loans are determined by using discounted cash ow methods using discount rates that reect the groups borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period.
Capital management The group defines capital as being net debt plus equity.
The groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the groups ability to continue as a going concern and maintain an appropriate capital structure to balance the needs of the group to grow, whilst operating with sufficient headroom within its bank covenants.
The following table summarises the capital of the group: 2018 2017 m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 109.5 82.5 Derivatives hedging balance sheet debt 84.1 87.0 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities held at amortised cost 769.1 672.4 Adjusted net debt 575.5 502.9 Equity 377.5 339.3 Capital 953.0 842.2 The group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions or in order to facilitate acquisitions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group has a number of options available to it including modifying dividend payments to shareholders, returning capital to shareholders or issuing new shares.
In this way, the group balances returns to shareholders between long term growth and current returns whilst maintaining capital discipline in relation to investing activities and taking any necessary action on costs to respond to the current environment.
The group monitors capital on the basis of the adjusted net debt EBITDA ratio.
Adjusted net debt is calculated as being the net of cash and cash equivalents, interest bearing loans and borrowings and the element of the fair value of interest rate currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the US private placement notes.
Adjusted net debt is shown in note 28.
The adjusted net debt EBITDA ratio enables the group to plan its capital requirements in the medium term.
The group uses this measure to provide useful information to financial institutions and investors.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
Derivatives and hedge relationships As at 30 September 2018 the group had entered into the following derivative contracts.
2018 2017 m m Consolidated balance sheet Non-current assets: derivative financial instruments Fair value of the USD GBP cross currency xed interest rate swaps 15.2 43.5 Fair value of the USD GBP cross currency oating interest rate swaps 25.1 25.6 Fair value of the GBP euro cross currency oating interest rate swaps 0.5 Fair value of forward currency contracts 0.2 0.1 40.5 69.7 Current assets: derivative financial instruments Fair value of the USD GBP cross currency xed interest rate swaps 33.0 7.1 Fair value of the USD GBP cross currency oating interest rate swaps 2.9 6.8 Fair value of the GBP euro cross currency oating interest rate swaps 0.4 0.5 Fair value of forward currency contracts 1.6 2.8 37.9 17.2 Current liabilities: derivative financial instruments Fair value of forward currency contracts 0.4 1.5 Fair value of forward currency contracts 0.3 Fair value of the GBP euro cross currency oating interest rate swaps 1.0 Fair value of foreign exchange swaps 0.2 0.7 2.7 Non-current liabilities: derivative financial instruments Fair value of the GBP euro cross currency xed interest rate swaps 4.1 3.9 Fair value of forward currency contracts 0.1 0.2 4.2 4.1 1.
Instruments designated as part of a cash ow hedge relationship.
Instruments designated as part of a net investment hedge relationship.
Instruments designated as part of a fair value hedge relationship.
Derivatives designated as part of hedge relationships As at 30 September 2018 these hedging relationships are categorised as follows: Cash ow hedges Forward currency contracts The forward currency contracts hedge the expected future purchases in the period to March 2019 and have been assessed as part of effective cash ow hedge relationships as at 30 September 2018.
Cross currency interest rate swaps USD GBP cross currency interest rate swaps The group has a number of cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the 2007, 2010 and 2014 USPP Notes.
These cross currency interest rate swaps have the effect of xing both the value of the USD borrowings into sterling and the rate of interest payable.
The cross currency interest rate swaps are designated as part of a cash ow hedge relationship with the USPP Notes.
Cash ows due under these cross currency interest rate swaps match the interest payment dates and maturity prole of the USPP Notes.
The maturity prole of the USPP Notes can be seen in note 21.
During the year the cash ow hedge has been tested for effectiveness and as a result a 0.5m loss 2017: nil has been recognised in the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Cash ow hedge net unrealised gains losses and related deferred tax assets liabilities : Net unrealised Related gain loss deferred tax within equity asset liability 2018 m m Forward currency contracts 1.3 0.2 2007 cross currency swaps 0.1 2010 cross currency swaps 3.6 0.6 2014 cross currency swaps 6.4 1.1 Net unrealised Related gain loss deferred tax within equity asset liability 2017 m m Forward currency contracts 1.1 0.2 2007 cross currency swaps 0.7 0.1 2010 cross currency swaps 3.6 0.6 2014 cross currency swaps 3.9 0.7 Fair value hedges Cross currency interest rate swaps The group has a number of cross currency interest rate swaps in respect of the 2009 and 2010 USPP Notes.
These instruments swap the principal and interest from xed rate US dollar into oating rate sterling the 2009 and 2010 USD GBP cross currency interest rate swaps.
The cross currency interest rate swaps are designated as part of a fair value hedge relationship with the USPP Notes.
The fair value movements on the 2009 and 2010 USD GBP cross currency interest rate instruments are recorded in the consolidated income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying value of the Notes where the hedge is deemed effective.
The decrease in fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps, excluding maturities, of 0.7m 2017: 10.3m decrease has been recognised in finance costs and offset with a similar gain on the borrowings of 0.5m 2017: 10.8m gain.
The net loss of 0.2m 2017: 0.5m gain represents the ineffective portion on the hedges of the debt.
Net investment hedges 2009 and 2010 GBP EUR cross currency interest rate swaps These instruments swap sterling liabilities arising from the 2009 and 2010 USD GBP cross currency interest rate swaps into euro liabilities and have been designated as part of effective hedges of the net investments in Britvic France and Britvic Ireland.
The GBP EUR cross currency interest rate swaps, along with the underlying loan instruments, are being used to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these euro investments.
Movements in the fair value of the GBP EUR cross currency interest rate swaps are taken to equity where they offset foreign exchange movements on the translation of the net investments in Britvic France and Britvic Ireland.
No ineffectiveness has been recognised in the consolidated income statement 2017: nil.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
Derivatives and hedge relationships continued Impact of derivatives and hedge relationships on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2018 2017 m m Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Amounts recycled to the income statement in respect of cash ow hedges Forward currency contracts 1.0 10.0 2007 cross currency interest rate swaps 2.7 2.4 2010 cross currency interest rate swaps 3.7 2.6 2014 cross currency interest rate swaps 2.4 2.8 0.4 7.0 Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement in respect of cash ow hedges 2010 cross currency interest rate swaps 0.5 0.5 Gains losses in the period in respect of cash ow hedges Forward currency contracts 0.8 1.8 2007 cross currency interest rate swaps 1.9 0.7 2010 cross currency interest rate swaps 3.6 2.3 2014 cross currency interest rate swaps 0.1 3.4 2.6 3.2 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Movement on 2009 GBP euro cross currency interest rate swaps 0.5 Movement on 2010 GBP euro cross currency interest rate swaps 0.4 0.7 Movement on Euro loans designated as net investment hedges 0.1 Exchange movements on translation of foreign operations 34.3 0.6 35.1 1.3 Offsetting amounts recorded in cost of sales.
Offsetting amounts recorded in finance income costs.
Provisions Restructuring Other Total m m m At 2 October 2016 3.6 9.1 12.7 Acquisition of subsidiary 0.9 0.9 Provisions utilised during the year 3.1 1.7 4.8 Unused amounts reversed 0.1 0.1 At 1 October 2017 0.4 8.3 8.7 Provisions made during the year 6.4 6.4 Provisions utilised during the year 1.2 2.3 3.5 Unused amounts reversed 0.5 0.5 Exchange differences 0.1 1.2 1.1 At 30 September 2018 5.7 4.3 10.0 Current 1.6 1.0 2.6 Non-current 4.1 3.3 7.4 At 30 September 2018 5.7 4.3 10.0 Current 0.4 3.3 3.7 Non-current 5.0 5.0 At 2 October 2017 0.4 8.3 8.7 132 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Restructuring provisions Restructuring provisions at 30 September 2018 and 1 October 2017, primarily relate to contract termination costs, consultation fees and employee termination benets, recognised by the group following the implementation of cost initiatives announced in 2016.
These costs include provisions for the closure of the Norwich site as announced in October 2017.
Provisions due in more than one year are expected to be settled on the closure of the Norwich site at the end of 2019.
The impact of discounting was deemed to be immaterial.
Other provisions Other provisions at 30 September 2018 and 1 October 2017, primarily relate to onerous lease provisions that have arisen due to the exit of certain group premises, and the period over which these will be settled ranges from 1 to 8 years and certain provisions recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries in Brazil which relate to regulatory and legal claims and are expected to be settled in 1 to 5 years.
Share-based payments Britvic operates a broad base of employee plans as well as executive plans.
In GB Britvic operates SIP plans for all employees, whereas outside of GB Britvic operates both share-settled and cash-settled plans.
Executives participate in ESOP and PSP plans and senior leadership team participates in PSP plans.
The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2018, including national insurance is 5.6m 2017: 6.3m.
This expense arises from transactions which are expected to be equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The Britvic Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP is an all-employee HMRC approved share plan open to employees based in GB.
Employees are entitled to receive the annual free share award, where granted by the group, provided they are employed by the company on the last day of each financial year and on the award date.
Employees cant sell these shares for three years from their date of award.
Employees also have the opportunity to invest up to 138 every 4 weeks 1,800 per year through the partnership share scheme.
This is deducted from their gross salary.
Matching shares are offered on the basis of one free matching share for each ordinary share purchased with a participants savings, up to a maximum of 50 2017: 50 per four week pay period.
Awards made during the period are shown in the table below.
The fair value of these awards is equivalent to the intrinsic value of the shares.
2018 2017 Weighted Weighted 2018 average 2017 average No.
of shares fair value Annual free shares award 354,970 791.5p 455,512 578.0p Matching shares award 1 free share for every ordinary share purchased 101,665 758.6p 115,274 644.7p The Britvic Executive Share Option Plan ESOP The ESOP allows for options to buy ordinary shares to be granted to executives.
The option price is the average market price of Britvic plcs shares on the three business days before the date of grant.
Options become exercisable on the satisfaction of the performance condition and remain exercisable until ten years after the date of grant.
Options granted in 2018 The performance condition requires the increase in EPS of 3% 8% pa compound over a three year performance period for the options to vest.
If the EPS growth is 3%, 20% of the options will vest, with full vesting at 8% EPS growth.
Straight-line apportionment will be applied between these two levels to determine the number of options that vest and no options will vest if the EPS growth is below the lower threshold.
Options granted in 2017 Options granted in 2017 were as per the options granted in 2018 outlined above.
In some circumstances, at the discretion of the company, an option holder who exercises his her option may receive a cash payment rather than the ordinary shares under option.
The cash payment would be equal to the amount by which the market value of the ordinary shares under option exceeds the option price.
However, it is expected that this plan will be equity-settled and as a consequence has been accounted for as such.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Share-based payments continued The following table illustrates the movements in the number of share options during the period: Weighted Number average of share exercise price options pence Outstanding at 2 October 2016 3,896,276 579.8 Granted 1,273,849 545.0 Exercised 199,142 368.3 Lapsed 5,116 671.0 Outstanding at 1 October 2017 4,965,867 579.2 Granted 934,092 792.4 Exercised 246,711 387.4 Lapsed 655,335 653.9 Outstanding at 30 September 2018 4,997,913 618.7 Exercisable at 30 September 2018 2,092,931 552.2 The weighted average share price for share options exercised during the period was 792.1p 2017: 691.8p.
The share options outstanding as at 30 September 2018 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.5 years 2017: 7.2 years and the range of exercise prices was 221.0p 810.0p 2017: 221.0p 711.7p.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the period was 116.7p 2017: 77.6p.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model, taking account of the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The Britvic Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP allows for awards of ordinary shares or nil cost options to be made to selected employees with vesting subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, where different performance conditions apply to different groups of employees.
Awards up to and including 2008, and 2013 and later were made in respect of ordinary shares.
Awards granted between 2009 and 2011 were nil cost options.
Nil cost options remain exercisable until 7 or 10 years after the date of grant for employees based in Ireland and UK respectively, whereas awards of ordinary shares are exercised when vested.
Awards granted in 2018 Three awards were granted in 2018.
The first award is split between the senior leadership team and the senior management team.
The performance condition applied to awards granted to members of the senior leadership team is divided 75% and 25% between EPS and the total shareholder return TSR performance conditions respectively.
EPS is the only condition applied to awards granted to the senior management team.
The EPS condition is the same as described in the ESOP section for options granted in 2015.
The TSR condition measures the companys TSR relative to a comparator group consisting of 18 companies over a three year performance period.
The awards will not vest unless the companys position in the comparator group is at least median.
At median 20% will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting at upper quartile.
The second award was granted to members of the senior management team.
In some circumstances, at the discretion of the company, vested awards may be satisfied by a cash payment rather than a transfer of ordinary shares.
The third award is an exceptional award under the Performance Share Plan and has been awarded to selected employees.
The performance condition applied to awards granted is continued employment for three years from date of grant.
Awards granted in 2017 Awards granted in 2017 were as per the three awards in 2018 outlined above.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The following tables illustrate the movements in the number of PSP shares and nil cost options during the period.
Continued employment Number of shares and nil cost options subject to specic conditions TSR condition EPS condition ROIC condition condition Outstanding at 2 October 2016 534,274 2,280,660 179,924 147,004 Granted 189,787 1,341,525 130,563 Exercised 123,972 404,000 116,187 Lapsed 63,737 23,270 63,737 Outstanding at 1 October 2017 536,352 3,194,915 277,567 Granted 140,085 944,259 138,692 Exercised 129,077 433,462 Lapsed 89,003 837,637 33,727 Outstanding at 30 September 2018 458,357 2,868,075 382,532 Weighted average remaining contracted life in years for nil cost options outstanding at: 30 September 2018 3.2 2.9 1 October 2017 4.2 3.9 Key assumptions used to determine the fair value of ESOP and PSP The fair value of options and awards granted is estimated as at the date of grant, taking account of the terms and conditions upon which shares options were granted.
The fair value of the award subject to the TSR condition is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation.
The fair value of all other awards is calculated using the share price at the date of grant, adjusted for dividends not received during the vesting period.
The following table lists the inputs to the model used in respect of the PSP awards and ESOP options granted during the financial year: 2018 2017 Dividend yield % 3.32% 3.71 Expected volatility % 22.6% 24.9 Risk-free interest rate % 0.6 0.2 Expected life of option years 3 5 3 5 Share price at date of grant pence 533.0 809.5 533.0 705.0 Exercise price pence 542.0 810.0 542.0 710.0 The expected volatility reects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Notes to the consolidated cash ow statement Analysis of net debt Exchange Other 2017 Cash ows differences movement 2018 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 82.5 28.4 1.4 109.5 Debt due within one year 89.7 27.9 4.9 114.5 171.4 Debt due after more than one year 582.7 119.9 2.2 107.1 597.7 589.9 63.6 1.3 7.4 659.6 Derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt 87.0 6.5 3.6 84.1 Adjusted net debt 502.9 70.1 4.9 7.4 575.5 Exchange Other 2016 Cash ows differences movement 2017 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 205.9 121.3 2.1 82.5 Debt due within one year 288.1 273.7 6.6 68.7 89.7 Debt due after more than one year 491.7 175.0 12.3 71.7 582.7 573.9 22.6 3.6 3.0 589.9 Derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt 157.5 58.2 12.3 87.0 Adjusted net debt 416.4 80.8 8.7 3.0 502.9 Represents the element of the fair value of interest rate currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the USPP Notes.
This amount has been disclosed separately to demonstrate the impact of foreign exchange movements which are included in debt due after more than one year.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2018 Land and buildings Other Total m m m Within one year 3.7 4.3 8.0 After one year but not more than five years 9.8 5.6 15.4 After more than five years 25.5 25.5 39.0 9.9 48.9 2017 Land and buildings Other Total m m m Within one year 2.7 4.9 7.6 After one year but not more than five years 8.4 5.8 14.2 After more than five years 26.0 26.0 37.1 10.7 47.8 Finance lease commitments Future minimum lease payments under finance leases are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Within one year 0.8 1.0 After one year but not more than five years 1.0 2.1 1.8 3.1 Due to the timing of the expiry of the finance lease commitments, there is no material difference between the total future minimum lease payments and their fair value.
Capital commitments At 30 September 2018, the group has commitments of 31.3m 2017: 20.1m relating to the acquisition of new plant and machinery.
Contingent liabilities The group had no material contingent liabilities at 30 September 2018 2017: none.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 30.
Related party disclosures The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Britvic plc and the subsidiaries listed in the table below.
% equity Name Principal activity Country of incorporation interest Directly held Britannia Soft Drinks Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 3 Britvic Finance No 2 Limited Financing company Jersey 100 Indirectly held Britvic EMEA Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks England and Wales 100 Britvic Soft Drinks Limited Manufacture and sale of soft drinks England and Wales 100 Robinsons Soft Drinks Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 Orchid Drinks Limited Brand licence holder England and Wales 100 Red Devil Energy Drinks Limited Brand licence holder England and Wales 100 Britvic International Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 Britvic Overseas Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 Britvic Pensions Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 5 Britvic Property Partnership Pension funding vehicle Scotland 100 Britvic Brands LLP Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Asset Company No.
1 Limited Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Asset Company No.
2 Limited Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Asset Company No.
3 Limited Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Asset Company No.
4 Limited Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Finance Partnership LLP Financing company England and Wales 100 Robinsons Finance No.
2 Limited Financing company England and Wales 100 5 Britvic Scottish Limited Partnership Pension funding vehicle Scotland 100 4 Britvic Finance Limited Financing company Jersey 100 6 Britvic Irish Holdings Limited Holding company Republic of Ireland 100 6 Britvic Ireland Limited Manufacture and marketing of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100 6 Britvic Northern Ireland Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100 6 Aquaporte Limited Supply of water-coolers and bottled water Republic of Ireland 100 6 Britvic Americas Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100 6 Britvic Ireland Pension Trust DAC Pension trust company Republic of Ireland 100 6 Robinsons Finance Limited Financing company Republic of Ireland 100 6 Counterpoint Wholesale Ireland Limited Wholesale of soft drinks to the licensed trade Republic of Ireland 100 7 Counterpoint Wholesale NI Limited Wholesale of soft drinks to the licensed trade Northern Ireland 100 7 Britvic Northern Ireland Pensions Trust Limited Pension trust company Northern Ireland 100 8 Britvic North America LLC Marketing and distribution of soft drinks USA 100 9 Britvic France SAS Holding partnership France 100 9 Fruit Entreprises SAS Holding company France 100 11 Fruit SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100 10 Bricfruit SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100 12 Unisource SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100 9 Teisseire France SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100 13 Teisseire Benelux SA Marketing and distribution of soft drinks Belgium 100 14 Britvic Brasil Holdings SA Holding company Brazil 100 15 Empresa Brasileira fide Bebidas e Alimentos SA Manufacture and sale of soft drinks Brazil 100 16 Bela Ischia Alimentos Ltda Manufacture and sale of soft drinks Brazil 100 17 Britvic Asia PTE.
Ltd Holding company Singapore 100 18 Britvic India Manufacturing Private Limited Non-trading India 100 Britvic International Support Services Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Greenbank Drinks Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 The Really Wild Drinks Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 H. D. Rawlings Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Related party disclosures continued % equity Name Principal activity Country of incorporation interest R. White & Sons Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Idris Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 The Southern Table Water Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Britvic Corona Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Britvic Beverages Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Sunfresh Soft Drinks Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 2 The London Essence Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Hooper, Struve & Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 British Vitamin Products Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Britvic Healthcare Trustee Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 2 Wisehead Productions Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 6 Britvic Licensed Wholesale Limited Dormant Republic of Ireland 100 6 Knockton Limited Dormant Republic of Ireland 100 6 Britvic Munster Limited Dormant Republic of Ireland 100 1 Registered ofce: Breakspear Park, Breakspear Way, Hemel Hempstead, HP2 4TZ 2 Registered ofce: 9 Roding Road, Beckton, London E6 6LF 3 Registered ofce: IFC 5.
St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ST 4 Registered ofce: Portman House, Hue Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 5RP 5 Registered ofce: 1 Exchange Crescent, Conference Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 8UL 6 Registered ofce: IFSC, 25-28 North Wall Quay, Dublin 1, Republic of Ireland 7 Registered ofce: 42-46 Fountain Street, Belfast, Northern Ireland, BT1 5EF 8 Registered ofce: 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States of America 9 Registered ofce: 482 Avenue Ambroise Croizat, Crolles, France 10 Registered ofce: La Jaunaie-44690, Chateau-Tebaud, 321501611 RCS Nantes, France 11 Registered ofce: Z. I. Les Afforts 74800, La Roche-Sur-Foron, France 12 Registered ofce: Z. I. fide la Mouline 34440, Nissan-Lez-Enserune, France 13 Registered ofce: Rue Emile Francqui 11, 1435 Mont-Saint-Guibert, Belgium 14 Registered ofce: Avenue Reboucas, Pinheiros, Sao Paulo, Brazil 15 Registered ofce: Avenida Paulistsa, No.
1106, Edicio Paulista 1100, Bela Vista, CEP 01310-100, So Paulo, Brazil 16 Registered ofce: Rodovia MG 285-KM 77, sem nmero, Centro, CEP 36780-000, Astolfo Dutra MG, Brazil 17 Registered ofce: 80 Robinson Road #17-02, Singapore 068898, Singapore 18 Registered ofce: 9SE, 9th Floor, The Ruby, 29 Senapati Bapatmarg, Dadar West, Mumbai-400028, India Key management personnel are deemed to be the executive and non-executive directors of the company and members of the Executive Committee.
The compensation payable to key management in the period is detailed below.
2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benets 5.9 6.0 Post-employment benets 0.5 0.5 Share-based payments 1.6 1.2 8.0 7.7 See note 8 for details of directors emoluments.
There were no other related party transactions requiring disclosure in these financial statements.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 31.
Acquisition of subsidiaries On 2 October 2017, the final tranche of the deferred consideration payable on the acquisition of Ebba of 35.9m BR$152.2m was paid.
This was shown in other liabilities as at 1 October 2017.
On 2 March 2017, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Bela Ischia Alimentos Ltda Bela Ischia, a soft drinks company in Brazil with a large presence in the key areas of Rio fide Janeiro and Minas Gerais.
The acquisition strengthened both Britvics brand portfolio and distribution footprint in Brazil by complementing existing strengths in Sao Paulo and the north east.
The consideration for the acquisition comprised of cash consideration of 52.4m BR$200.8m.
There was no deferred consideration.
On 2 February 2017, the group completed the acquisition of the trade and assets of East Coast Suppliers Limited a licensed wholesaler in Ireland.
The acquisition enabled the group to grow its wholesale business in Ireland and in particular in the Dublin area.
The consideration for the acquisition was 11.1m 12.8m comprising of an initial cash consideration of 8.4m 9.5m with 2.4m 2.8m paid 12 months from completion, 0.2m 0.3m due 36 months from completion and stamp duty of 0.2m 0.2m.
Post balance sheet events On 26 October 2018, the High Court ruled that Lloyds Banking Group must equalise the guaranteed minimum pensions GMP for men and women.
The group has started to work through the impact of this judgement with the schemes actuaries.
Based on the approach used in recent buy-outs of pension schemes the expected impact for all UK schemes affected would be in the region of 1-3% of scheme liabilities depending on the individual characteristics of the pension scheme.
There is therefore a risk that the schemes liabilities for the group could increase by c. 7m 20m.
Due to the timing of the ruling this has been considered a non-adjusting post balance sheet event and the impact of the GMP equalisation will be quantied and accounted for during the accounting period starting 1 October 2018.
Financial statements restatements IFRS 15 restatements The Group early adopted IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 on 2 October 2017 using the full retrospective method.
This note details the impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 on the Groups primary financial statements and KPIs.
IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining and recognising revenue.
The main impact of adopting the standard for the Group is: Reclassication of certain rebates offered to customers that had previously been recognised as selling and distribution costs to revenue, that are now considered to be a reduction in the transaction price under IFRS 15 57.6m.
Reclassication of certain incentives received from revenue, to cost of sales, which do not now meet the denition of revenue under IFRS 15 52.7m.
There is no impact on profit before tax.
The areas that have been impacted and restated for 2017 are the following: Revenue, Cost of sales, Gross profit, selling and distribution costs, administration expenses, segmental brand contribution, trade and other payables and contract liabilities.
Other restatements The Group has restated the reversal of impairments on intangible assets from administration expenses to other income to better reect the nature of these credits.
Consolidated Income Statement restated 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 October 2017 1 October 2017 audited IFRS 15 Other audited As reported Adjustments Adjustments Restated m m m m Revenue 1,540.8 110.3 1,430.5 Cost of sales 724.3 57.1 667.2 Gross profit 816.5 53.2 763.3 Selling and distribution costs 443.8 50.7 393.1 Administration expenses 209.7 2.5 9.2 216.4 Other income 9.2 9.2 Operating profit 163.0 163.0 Finance income 2.1 2.1 Finance costs 26.3 26.3 profit before tax 138.8 138.8 Taxation 27.2 27.2 profit for the period attributable to the equity shareholders 111.6 111.6 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33.
Financial statements restatements continued Other Primary Statement restatements for IFRS 15 The only adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet is in respect of contract liabilities.
The group has identied balances with customers that should be recorded separately as contract liabilities under IFRS 15.
1 October 1 October 2017 IFRS 15 2017 As reported Adjustments Restated m m m Current liabilities Trade and other payables 472.6 87.7 384.9 Contract liabilities 87.7 87.7 2 October 3 October 2016 IFRS 15 2016 As reported Adjustments Restated m m m Current liabilities Trade and other payables 437.2 95.0 342.2 Contract liabilities 95.0 95.0 There is no impact on the adoption of IFRS 15 on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
