The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion IFRS 9 operates an expected credit loss model rather than an management and reported to the Board and the Executive incurred credit loss model.
Providing for loss allowances on our Committee of BT Group plc.
existing financial assets is not expected to have a material impact.
We have included the impact of providing for losses on our Specific items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures contract assets within the estimated impact of the adoption of used by other companies.
Examples of charges or credits meeting IFRS 15 as set out above.
the above definition and which have been presented as specific items in the current and or prior years include IFRS 16 Leases acquisitions disposals of businesses and investments, regulatory IFRS 16 was published in January 2016 and will be effective for settlements, historical insurance or litigation claims, business BT from 1 April 2019, replacing IAS 17 Leases.
We are planning restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, property to adopt IFRS 16 on a modified retrospective basis and the group rationalisation programmes, net interest on pensions and the will recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying the settlement of multiple tax years.
In the event that other items standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained meet the criteria, which are applied consistently from year to year, earnings at 1 April 2019, ie the date of initial application.
Results they are also treated as specific items.
in the 2019 20 financial year will be IFRS 16 compliant and the Annual Report and 20-F 2020 will be the first to include the Specific items for the current and prior years are disclosed in results on this basis.
The standard requires lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all 2.
Critical accounting estimates leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less, or the underlying asset is of low value.
and key judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS The group is still in the process of quantifying the implications of this requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
However, we expect the following indicative impacts: requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of there is expected to be an increase in total assets, as leased applying our accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our assets which are currently accounted for off balance sheet ie estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available classified as operating leases under IAS 17 will be recognised information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in on balance sheet valued in accordance with the principles of financial reporting, actual results could differ from these IFRS 16.
The biggest asset category impacted for the group is estimates.
Management has discussed its critical accounting expected to be land and buildings estimates and associated disclosures with the Audit and Risk there is expected to be an increase in debt, as liabilities relating Committee of BT Group plc.
The areas involving a higher degree of to existing operating leases are recognised.
The increase in judgement or complexity are described in the applicable notes to total debt will have an impact on gearing ratios the financial statements.
Critical accounting estimates and key operating lease expenditure will be reclassified and split between judgements can be identified throughout the notes by the depreciation and finance costs.
Future depreciation and finance costs are also expected to We have the following critical accounting estimates E and key increase as a result of increased assets and liabilities there is an expected temporary reduction in profit after tax as judgements J : Revenue from multiple element arrangements, see note 4 J. result of the above changes.
This is expected to be driven by an increase in finance costs as a result of the new leases.
These Subscriber acquisition and retention costs, see note 5 J.
Current and deferred income tax, see note 9 E, J. finance costs will have an accelerated profile which will reduce once the leases are settled Goodwill, see note 11 E. Government grants relating to Broadband Delivery UK BDUK there may be a corresponding effect on tax balances in relation to all of the above impacts.
Long-term customer contracts, see note 16 E. This standard will require us to make key accounting judgements in Provisions and contingent liabilities, see note 18 E, J. particular around the likelihood of lease renewals.
Details of our existing operating lease commitments are set out in 3.
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These Presentation of specific items policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, Our income statement and segmental analysis separately identify unless otherwise stated.
trading results before specific items.
The directors believe that presentation of our results in this way is relevant to an Basis of consolidation understanding of our financial performance, as specific items are The group financial statements consolidate the financial identified by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
This statements of British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries, presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance and include its share of the results of associates and joint ventures is measured by management and reported to the Board and the using the equity method of accounting.
The group recognises its Executive Committee of BT Group plc and assists in providing a direct rights to and its share of jointly held assets, liabilities, meaningful analysis of our trading results.
In determining whether revenues and expenses of joint operations under the appropriate an event or transaction is specific, management considers headings in the consolidated financial statements.
quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known as the parent or investor.
An investor controls an investee Furthermore, we consider a columnar presentation to be when the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the presentation and is from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by those returns through its power over the investee.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 113 112 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018
