Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement Notes for the year ended 31 December 2018 2018 2017 1 Basis of preparation Notes m m Bunzl plc the Company is a public company, which is limited by shares and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company Cash flow from operating activities is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and is registered in England and Wales.
Profit before income tax 424.8 409.3 i Basis of accounting Adjusted for: The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 have been approved by the Board of directors of Bunzl plc.
net finance expense 6 55.0 46.7 They are prepared in accordance with i EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the IFRS customer relationships amortisation 10 111.1 96.6 Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies using IFRS and ii IFRS as acquisition related items 4 33.4 36.7 issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
They are prepared under the historical cost convention with the exception disposal of businesses 26 13.6 of certain items which are measured at fair value as described in the accounting policies below.
The directors consider that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
GMP equalisation charge 3.3 Adjusted operating profit 614.0 589.3 ii New accounting standards and interpretations Adjustments: The Group has adopted all relevant amendments to existing standards and interpretations issued by the IASB that are effective from non-cash items 28 31.8 28.9 1 January 2018 with no material impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
In addition, the Group has adopted the two new working capital movement 28 38.7 15.6 standards issued by the IASB that are applicable to the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018, these being IFRS 15 Revenue from Cash generated from operations before acquisition related items 607.1 602.6 Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Cash outflow from acquisition related items 25 13.9 13.9 The Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers retrospectively from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 requires Income tax paid 113.2 113.1 companies to apportion revenue from customer contracts to separate performance obligations and recognise revenue as these performance Cash inflow from operating activities 480.0 475.6 obligations are satisfied.
The vast majority of the Groups revenue is generated from the delivery of goods to customers representing a single performance obligation which is satisfied upon delivery of the relevant goods.
The Groups other revenue generating activities Cash flow from investing activities represent approximately 1% of total revenue.
The majority of this other revenue relates to design and fit out services for foodservice customers and fulfilment services where the Group does not take title to inventory.
For these and other services performed by the Group, Interest received 2.0 2.3 the recognition of revenue under IFRS 15 does not differ materially from the previous accounting practices.
Accordingly, the adoption of Purchase of property, plant and equipment and software 9,10 31.1 33.8 IFRS 15 has not had a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition and has not had a material impact on the Groups operating Sale of property, plant and equipment 2.5 0.9 profit or financial position.
Prior year comparatives have not been restated because the transition adjustment was not material.
Purchase of businesses 25 170.3 574.6 Disposal of businesses 26 55.1 The Group has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments retrospectively from 1 January 2018 except where prospective application is required as specified in the standard.
The adoption of IFRS 9 resulted in a change to the Groups accounting estimates to reflect the new Cash outflow from investing activities 141.8 605.2 expected credit loss impairment model for financial assets, particularly in relation to the provision for trade receivables, but did not have a material impact on the Groups operating profit or financial position.
Prior year comparatives have not been restated because the transition Cash flow from financing activities adjustment was not material.
Interest paid 51.1 46.8 Dividends paid 18 152.2 138.2 In September 2017 an agenda decision of the IFRS IC was issued which provided clarity over the treatment of interest and penalties related Increase in borrowings 71.6 418.7 to income taxes.
This confirmed that entities do not have an accounting policy choice between applying IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and that the treatment should be determined on a case-by-case basis.
As a result, Repayment of borrowings 228.5 87.3 the Groups finance expense now includes a charge for interest related to income tax and acquisition related items include interest on Realised gains losses on foreign exchange contracts 3.3 10.2 acquisition related income tax whereas in prior years all such items were shown in income tax.
The amounts involved are not material Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares to settle share options 7.2 4.0 and prior year comparatives have not been restated.
Proceeds from exercise of market purchase share options 42.8 24.7 Purchase of employee trust shares 48.1 There are no other new standards or amendments to existing standards and interpretations that are effective for the year ended 31 December 2018 that have had a material impact on the Group.
Cash outflow inflow from financing activities 306.9 116.8 IFRS 16 Leases is effective in the consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2019 and will have a material impact Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 31.3 12.8 on the consolidated financial statements.
The Group has adopted IFRS 16 with effect from 1 January 2019 and intends to use the modified retrospective approach to transition utilising certain practical expedients outlined in the standard, notably the exclusion of low value less Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 112.3 126.7 than 5,000 and short term leases less than 12 months.
Data has been collated on all of the Groups leases for which IFRS 16 is applicable, of which there are more than 5,000, and these are principally for warehouses, offices and vehicles.
This data has been used in Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 31.3 12.8 conjunction with a lease accounting tool specifically developed for the Group by third party experts to calculate the impact of transitioning Currency translation 0.6 1.6 to IFRS 16 as at 1 January 2019.
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 24 144.2 112.3 The new standard requires that the Groups leased assets are recorded within property, plant and equipment as Right of use assets with Alternative performance measures a corresponding lease liability which is based on the present value of the future payments required under each lease discounted at the Cash generated from operations before acquisition related items 607.1 602.6 incremental borrowing rate.
It is currently estimated that the adoption of IFRS 16 will increase the carrying value of property, plant and Purchase of property, plant and equipment and software 31.1 33.8 equipment at 1 January 2019 by between 430m and 450m with liabilities increasing by between 480m and 500m and retained earnings decreasing by between 20m and 50m.
Under the new standard, the existing operating lease expense previously recorded in operating Sale of property, plant and equipment 2.5 0.9 costs will be replaced by a depreciation charge, which will be lower than the previous operating lease expense by approximately 20m, Operating cash flow 578.5 569.7 and a separate financing expense, which will be recorded in finance expense, of approximately 20m.
There will be no net cash flow impact arising from the adoption of the new standard.
Net debt to EBITDA is expected to increase by approximately 0.3 times compared Cash conversion % operating cash flow to adjusted operating profit 94% 97% to the previous accounting standard but performance against current banking covenants will not be affected because these are based on historical accounting standards.
The Group does not currently intend to alter its approach going forward as to whether assets should See Note 3 on page 114 for further details of the alternative performance measures.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 107 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 107 106 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 1 Basis of preparation continued Apart from this standard, the Group does not anticipate that any other new or revised standards and interpretations currently issued by the IASB that are effective from 1 January 2019 and beyond will have a material impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
2 Accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
a Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group is either exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
A list of all of Bunzl plcs subsidiary undertakings is included in the Related undertakings note in the Shareholder information section on pages 162 to 164 and is subject to audit.
The results of all of the subsidiary undertakings are included in full in these consolidated financial statements.
ii Business combinations The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date.
The consideration paid or payable in respect of acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion and deferred consideration, excluding payments which are contingent on the continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired.
The excess of the consideration excluding payments contingent on future employment over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Payments that are contingent on future employment and transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income statement.
When less than 100% of the issued share capital of a subsidiary is acquired, and the acquisition includes an option to purchase the remaining share capital of the subsidiary, the anticipated acquisition method is applied, where judged appropriate to do so, meaning that no non-controlling interest is recognised.
A liability is carried on the balance sheet equal to the fair value of the option and this is revised to fair value at each reporting date with differences being recorded in acquisition related items in the income statement.
iii Disposal of businesses Where a subsidiary undertaking is sold, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary on the date of disposal less any transaction costs relating to the disposal.
On the disposal of a subsidiary with assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, the cumulative translation difference associated with that subsidiary in the translation reserve is credited or debited to the profit or loss on disposal recognised in the income statement.
Cash received on disposal of businesses is shown within investing activities in the Consolidated cash flow statement, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed of and transaction costs.
iv Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, unless they qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge accounting treatment, in which case the effective portion is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates.
All resulting exchange differences, including exchange differences arising from the translation of borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges of such balances, are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve.
Differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented in this separate component of equity.
c Revenue The Group is principally engaged in the delivery of goods to customers representing a single performance obligation which is satisfied upon delivery of the relevant goods.
Revenue related to the provision of services is recognised when the service is provided, which for the majority of the Groups service revenue represents a single performance obligation.
Revenue is not recognised if there is significant uncertainty regarding recovery of the consideration due.
Revenue is valued at invoiced amounts, excluding sales taxes and including estimates for variable consideration where relevant, such as returns and trade discounts.
Returns provisions and early settlement discounts are based on experience over an appropriate period whereas volume discounts are based on agreements with customers and expected volumes.
There has been no significant change to the Groups accounting policy for revenue as a result of the adoption of IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018.
108 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 108 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 1 Basis of preparation continued 2 Accounting policies continued Apart from this standard, the Group does not anticipate that any other new or revised standards and interpretations currently issued d Cost of goods sold by the IASB that are effective from 1 January 2019 and beyond will have a material impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
Cost of goods sold consists of the cost of the inventories sold or disposed of in the period where the cost of inventories is net of supplier rebate income related to those inventories.
2 Accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated e Supplier rebates financial statements.
The Group has various rebate arrangements with a number of suppliers.
Some of these arrangements are based on the volume of products purchased and others are based on the volume of products sold.
Supplier rebate income is recognised in cost of goods sold concurrent a Basis of consolidation with the sale of the inventories to which it relates and is calculated by reference to the expected consideration receivable from each rebate i Subsidiaries arrangement.
Substantially all supplier rebate income is unconditional and non-judgemental.
Supplier rebate income is not recognised Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group is either exposed or has rights to variable returns from if there is significant uncertainty regarding recovery of the amount due.
Supplier rebate income accrued but not yet received is included its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are included in in other receivables.
the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
A list of all of Bunzl plcs subsidiary undertakings is included in the Related undertakings note in the Shareholder information section on pages 162 to 164 and f Share based payments is subject to audit.
The Group operates a number of equity settled share based payment compensation plans.
Details of these plans are outlined in Note 17 and the Directors remuneration report.
The total expected expense is based on the fair value of options and other share based incentives on the ii Business combinations grant date, calculated using a valuation model, and is spread over the expected vesting period with a corresponding credit to equity.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The consideration paid g Leases or payable in respect of acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion and deferred consideration, excluding payments which are Operating lease rentals and any incentives receivable are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the contingent on the continued employment of former owners of businesses acquired.
The excess of the consideration excluding payments relevant lease.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are classified contingent on future employment over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Payments that are as finance leases.
Where land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that contingent on future employment and transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income statement.
of the buildings due to the indefinite life of land.
When less than 100% of the issued share capital of a subsidiary is acquired, and the acquisition includes an option to purchase the h Income tax remaining share capital of the subsidiary, the anticipated acquisition method is applied, where judged appropriate to do so, meaning that no Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the non-controlling interest is recognised.
A liability is carried on the balance sheet equal to the fair value of the option and this is revised to fair extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
value at each reporting date with differences being recorded in acquisition related items in the income statement.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or recoverable on the taxable income or loss for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively iii Disposal of businesses enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Current tax payable is recognised when it is probable that Where a subsidiary undertaking is sold, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between the aggregate of the fair value the Group will be required to settle the obligation.
The Groups policy for accounting for current tax payable or receivable where it is of the consideration received and the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary on the date of disposal less any uncertain is described in more detail in Note 2y Sources of estimation uncertainty part iv Taxation.
transaction costs relating to the disposal.
On the disposal of a subsidiary with assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, the cumulative translation difference associated with that subsidiary in the translation reserve is credited or debited to the profit or loss Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method providing for temporary differences arising between tax bases and carrying on disposal recognised in the income statement.
Cash received on disposal of businesses is shown within investing activities in the amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary Consolidated cash flow statement, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed of and transaction costs.
differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
iv Transactions eliminated on consolidation Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profits and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent preparing the consolidated financial statements.
that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future and where the Company controls the timing of the reversal.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can b Foreign currency be utilised.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange i Property, plant and equipment differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, unless they qualify for cash flow or net investment hedge Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
The carrying values of accounting treatment, in which case the effective portion is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
property, plant and equipment are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses separate items.
of foreign operations are translated at average exchange rates.
All resulting exchange differences, including exchange differences arising from the translation of borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges of such balances, are recognised directly in other j Depreciation comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve.
Differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004, the date of transition Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight line basis to write off cost less estimated residual value over the assets estimated to IFRS, are presented in this separate component of equity.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: c Revenue Buildings 50 years or depreciated over life of lease if shorter than 50 years The Group is principally engaged in the delivery of goods to customers representing a single performance obligation which is satisfied upon Plant and machinery 3 to 12 years delivery of the relevant goods.
Revenue related to the provision of services is recognised when the service is provided, which for the majority Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 to 12 years of the Groups service revenue represents a single performance obligation.
Revenue is not recognised if there is significant uncertainty Freehold land Not depreciated regarding recovery of the consideration due.
Assets residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 109 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 109 108 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 2 Accounting policies continued k Intangible assets i Goodwill Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method.
As permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group chose to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations from 1 January 2004 and elected not to restate previous business combinations.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount previously recorded under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
For acquisitions that occurred between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination in excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
For acquisitions that have occurred on or after 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination excluding payments contingent on future employment and transaction costs and expenses in excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and is tested annually for impairment.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Customer relationships Customer relationships intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised on acquisition and recorded at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, customer relationships intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives which range from 10 to 19 years.
iii Software Software is stated at historical cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
The carrying values of software are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives which range from three to seven years.
l Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed annually to determine if there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amounts are estimated.
The recoverable amounts of assets carried at amortised cost are calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at appropriate pre-tax discount rates.
The recoverable amounts of other assets are the greater of their fair value less the costs of disposal and the value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present values using appropriate pre-tax discount rates.
Impairment losses are recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, with impairment losses being recognised in the income statement.
m Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and comprises the purchase price, net of any related supplier volume rebates, plus import duties and other taxes, inbound freight and haulage costs and other related costs incurred to bring the product into its present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated cost of completion and estimated cost necessary to make the sale.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
n Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value, which for trade receivables is equal to the consideration expected to be received from the satisfaction of performance obligations, plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition these assets are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment losses including expected credit losses.
In accordance with IFRS 9 the Group applies the simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics such as the ageing of the debt and the credit risk of the customers.
An historical credit loss rate is then calculated for each group and then adjusted to reflect expectations about future credit losses.
The Group does not have any significant contract assets.
o Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value including any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition these liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
The Group has contract liabilities in the form of deferred income which arises from consideration received in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations.
110 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 110 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 2 Accounting policies continued 2 Accounting policies continued k Intangible assets p Financial instruments i Goodwill Classification and measurement Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method.
As permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, financial instruments are initially measured at fair value with subsequent measurement depending Reporting Standards, the Group chose to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations from 1 January 2004 and elected not to restate previous upon the classification of the instrument.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell business combinations.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the amount previously recorded under UK an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
For acquisitions that occurred between 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination in excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent All non-derivative financial assets and liabilities are subsequently held at amortised cost unless they are in a fair value hedge relationship.
For acquisitions that have occurred on or after 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the cost of the business combination Financial assets and liabilities held in a fair value hedge relationship are classified at fair value through profit or loss and are initially excluding payments contingent on future employment and transaction costs and expenses in excess of the fair value of the identifiable measured at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recorded in the income statement.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Derivatives and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their ii Customer relationships fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The accounting for subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is Customer relationships intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised on acquisition and recorded at fair value.
designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: Subsequent to initial recognition, customer relationships intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives which a hedge of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : range from 10 to 19 years.
a hedge of a particular risk associated with the cash flows of recognised assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedge : or iii Software Software is stated at historical cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
The carrying values of software are a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
The Group documents its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking its hedge transactions.
At inception of hedge Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives which range from three relationships, the Group documents the economic relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items.
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more l Impairment than 12 months and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is 12 months or less.
The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed annually to determine if there is any indication of impairment.
The recoverable amounts of assets carried at amortised cost are calculated i Fair value hedge as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at appropriate pre-tax discount rates.
The recoverable amounts of other Where a derivative instrument is designated and qualifies as a hedge of a recognised asset or liability, all changes in the fair value of the assets are the greater of their fair value less the costs of disposal and the value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement within finance expense.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted cash flows are discounted to their present values using appropriate pre-tax discount rates.
Impairment losses are recognised when the by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged with changes recognised in the income statement, also within finance carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, with impairment losses being recognised in the income statement.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion of the hedging arrangement is recognised immediately in the income statement.
m Inventories ii Cash flow hedge Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in the cash comprises the purchase price, net of any related supplier volume rebates, plus import duties and other taxes, inbound freight and haulage flow hedge reserve within equity.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
costs and other related costs incurred to bring the product into its present location and condition.
Where a derivative instrument is designated and qualifies as a hedge of a forecast transaction, only the change in fair value of the forward Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
contract related to the spot component is designated as the hedging instrument.
Gains or losses relating to the effective portion of the change in the spot component of the forward contract are initially recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve within equity.
The change n Trade and other receivables in the forward element of the contract that relates to the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value, which for trade receivables is equal to the consideration expected to be received from the satisfaction of performance obligations, plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition Gains or losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss or to the nonthese assets are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment losses including expected credit losses.
In accordance with financial asset when the hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset with the deferred gains or losses ultimately being IFRS 9 the Group applies the simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all recognised in the income statement as the non-financial asset affects profit or loss.
An historical credit loss rate is then calculated for each group and then When a hedging instrument expires, any cumulative deferred gain loss in equity relating to that instrument remains in equity until the adjusted to reflect expectations about future credit losses.
forecast transaction occurs at which point it is reclassified to the income statement.
When the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative deferred gain loss recorded in equity is immediately reclassified to the income statement.
Subsequent to initial iii Net investment hedge recognition these liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
The Group has contract liabilities in the form of deferred income which arises Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in foreign from consideration received in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations.
operations are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective and are accumulated in a separate reserve within equity.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective such differences are recognised in the income statement.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 111 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 111 110 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 2 Accounting policies continued iv Other derivative instruments Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that do not qualify for hedge accounting are immediately recognised in the income statement.
q Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, as reported in the cash flow statement, comprises cash at bank and in hand and bank overdrafts.
Cash at bank and in hand includes cash balances and short term deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date the deposit is made.
r Net debt Net debt is defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings adjusted for the fair value of interest rate swaps on fixed interest rate borrowings and other derivatives managing the interest rate risk and currency profile less cash and cash equivalents.
s Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting the Groups obligations under the contract.
t Investment in own shares The cost of shares held either directly treasury shares or indirectly employee benefit trust shares is deducted from equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
When treasury shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is recognised in retained earnings.
At each reporting date the Group remeasures the value of the shares held in the employee benefit trust to present them in the own shares reserve at the market value of those shares at the reporting date.
This is done through a reclassification from retained earnings to the own shares reserve.
This movement has no effect on the actual numbers of shares held by the employee benefit trust.
u Retirement benefits i Defined contribution pension schemes A defined contribution pension scheme is a post-employment benefit scheme under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate fund and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.
ii Defined benefit pension schemes A defined benefit pension scheme is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution pension scheme.
Defined benefit pension schemes are recognised on the balance sheet as a defined benefit pension asset or a defined benefit pension liability based on the difference between the fair value of pension scheme assets and the present value of pension scheme liabilities.
The present value of pension scheme liabilities is calculated by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods, discounted using the rate applicable to AA rated corporate bonds that have a similar maturity and currency to the pension scheme liabilities.
The fair value of any pension scheme assets at bid price is deducted from the present value of pension scheme liabilities to determine the net deficit or surplus of each scheme.
Remeasurements arising from defined benefit pension schemes comprise actuarial gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities and the actual return on pension scheme assets excluding amounts already included in net interest.
The net actuarial gain or loss for the year is recorded in full in the statement of comprehensive income.
Current service cost, past service cost or gain and gains and losses on any settlements and curtailments are credited or charged to the income statement.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent benefits are already vested.
Net interest on the net defined benefit pension liability or asset is calculated by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit pension scheme deficit or surplus at the beginning of the year to the net defined benefit pension liability or asset at the beginning of the year.
Net interest is recorded within finance expense or income in the income statement.
When the valuation of a defined benefit pension scheme results in a surplus, the recognised defined benefit pension asset is limited to the present value of benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the pension scheme or reductions in future contributions and takes into account the adverse effect of any minimum funding requirements.
112 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 112 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 2 Accounting policies continued 2 Accounting policies continued iv Other derivative instruments v Dividends Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that do not qualify The interim dividend is recognised in the statement of changes in equity in the period in which it is paid and the final dividend in the period for hedge accounting are immediately recognised in the income statement.
in which it is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
q Cash and cash equivalents w Hyperinflationary economies Cash and cash equivalents, as reported in the cash flow statement, comprises cash at bank and in hand and bank overdrafts.
Cash at bank Where the Group has operations in countries to which hyperinflation accounting applies, the financial statements of the business concerned and in hand includes cash balances and short term deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date the deposit is made.
are accounted for under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies.
r Net debt x Judgements made in applying the Groups accounting policies Net debt is defined as interest bearing loans and borrowings adjusted for the fair value of interest rate swaps on fixed interest rate In the course of preparing the financial statements, other than judgements involved in determining estimates and assumptions see Note 2y borrowings and other derivatives managing the interest rate risk and currency profile less cash and cash equivalents.
below, no judgements have been made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
s Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event that y Sources of estimation uncertainty can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is In applying the Groups accounting policies various transactions and balances are valued using estimates or assumptions.
Should these material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects risks specific to the liability.
estimates or assumptions prove incorrect, there may be an impact on the following years financial statements.
As at 31 December 2018, sources of estimation uncertainty where there was a significant risk of material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the within the next financial year were limited to the following items: unavoidable costs of meeting the Groups obligations under the contract.
i Accounting for business combinations t Investment in own shares Part of the Companys strategy is to grow through acquisitions.
Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method as described in The cost of shares held either directly treasury shares or indirectly employee benefit trust shares is deducted from equity.
Repurchased the business combinations accounting policy, Note 2 a ii, and the goodwill accounting policy, Note 2 k i.
This includes the determination of shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
When treasury shares are subsequently sold fair values for assets and liabilities acquired, including the separate identification of intangible assets, which use assumptions and estimates or reissued, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is recognised and are therefore subjective.
The Group has developed a process to meet the requirements of IFRS 3 including the separate identification of in retained earnings.
customer relationships intangible assets based on estimated future performance and customer attrition rates.
External valuation specialists are used where appropriate.
The process applied is described in Note 25.
This is done through a reclassification from retained earnings to the own ii Recoverability of goodwill and customer relationships intangible assets shares reserve.
As noted above, part of the Companys strategy is to grow through acquisitions which has led to material goodwill and customer relationships intangible assets being recognised on the balance sheet.
Goodwill, which is allocated across CGUs, is tested annually to u Retirement benefits determine if there is any indication of impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the goodwill to the recoverable amount of the CGU i Defined contribution pension schemes to which it has been allocated.
Assumptions and estimates are used to determine the recoverable amount of each CGU, principally based A defined contribution pension scheme is a post-employment benefit scheme under which the Company pays fixed contributions into on the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Actual performance may differ from managements expectations.
The estimates and a separate fund and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to assumptions used in performing impairment testing are described in Note 10.
Customer relationships assets are also reviewed annually pay all employee benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution for indicators of impairment and if an indicator of impairment exists then similar recoverability testing, involving the use of estimates pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.
and assumptions, is performed for the business to which the customer relationships asset relates.
The useful economic lives of customer relationships intangible assets are also reviewed at least annually, with any revisions to the original estimated useful economic lives ii Defined benefit pension schemes accounted for prospectively.
The goodwill balance at the end of 31 December 2018 was 1,420.4m 2017: 1,378.0m and the amount A defined benefit pension scheme is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution pension scheme.
Defined benefit of customer relationships intangible assets as at 31 December 2018 was 941.2m 2017: 954.6m.
pension schemes are recognised on the balance sheet as a defined benefit pension asset or a defined benefit pension liability based on the difference between the fair value of pension scheme assets and the present value of pension scheme liabilities.
iii Defined benefit pension schemes The measurement of the present value of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities involves the use of various actuarial assumptions.
The present value of pension scheme liabilities is calculated by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method by estimating the The Group uses independent actuarial experts to assist with the estimation of the discount rates, inflation rates and longevity assumptions amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods, discounted using the rate used for the measurement of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities but the actual liabilities could be materially different.
The main risks applicable to AA rated corporate bonds that have a similar maturity and currency to the pension scheme liabilities.
The fair value of any to which the Group is exposed in relation to the valuation of the defined benefit pension schemes are described in Note 21.
The Groups net pension scheme assets at bid price is deducted from the present value of pension scheme liabilities to determine the net deficit or surplus pension deficit balance as at 31 December 2018 was 38.5m 2017: 51.0m.
The net actuarial gain or loss iv Taxation for the year is recorded in full in the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group operates in many countries and is therefore subject to tax laws in a number of different tax jurisdictions.
The amount of tax payable or receivable on profits or losses for any period is subject to the agreement of the tax authority in each respective jurisdiction and Current service cost, past service cost or gain and gains and losses on any settlements and curtailments are credited or charged to the the tax liability or asset position is open to review for several years after the relevant accounting period ends.
In determining the provisions income statement.
Net interest on the net defined for income taxes, management is required to make assumptions based on interpretations of tax statute and case law, which it does after benefit pension liability or asset is calculated by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit pension scheme deficit taking account of professional advice and prior experience.
or surplus at the beginning of the year to the net defined benefit pension liability or asset at the beginning of the year.
The majority of the Groups tax payable balance of 94.8m 2017: 93.5m relates to provisions for uncertain tax matters.
Uncertainties in respect of enquiries and additional tax assessments raised by tax authorities are measured using managements single best estimate When the valuation of a defined benefit pension scheme results in a surplus, the recognised defined benefit pension asset is limited to the of the likely outcome and the amounts ultimately payable or receivable may differ from the amounts of any provisions recognised in the present value of benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the pension scheme or reductions in future contributions and takes consolidated financial statements as a result of the estimates and assumptions used.
into account the adverse effect of any minimum funding requirements.
The principal uncertainty relates to the legal arguments between the European Commission and the UK government over whether part of the UKs tax regime is contrary to European Union State Aid provisions.
Other than the risk relating to this, management does not consider there to exist a significant risk of material adjustment within the next financial year because tax provisions cover a range of matters across multiple tax jurisdictions with a variety of timescales before such matters are expected to be concluded.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 113 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 113 112 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 3 Alternative performance measures In addition to the various performance measures defined under IFRS, the Group reports a number of other measures that are designed to assist with the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group and its businesses.
These measures are not defined under IFRS and are therefore known as alternative performance measures.
Accordingly, these measures, which are not designed to be a substitute for any of the IFRS measures of performance, may not be directly comparable with other companies alternative performance measures.
The principal alternative performance measures used within the consolidated financial statements and the location of the reconciliations to equivalent IFRS measures are shown and defined in the table below: Adjusted operating Operating profit before customer relationships amortisation, acquisition related items, the GMP equalisation profit charge and disposal of businesses reconciled in the table below and in the Consolidated income statement Operating margin % Adjusted operating profit as a percentage of revenue Adjusted profit Profit before income tax, customer relationships amortisation, acquisition related items, the GMP equalisation before income tax charge and disposal of businesses reconciled in the table below Adjusted profit for Profit for the year before customer relationships amortisation, acquisition related items, the GMP equalisation the year charge, disposal of businesses and the associated tax reconciled in the table below Effective tax rate Tax on adjusted profit before income tax as a percentage of adjusted profit before income tax reconciled in Note 7 Adjusted earnings Adjusted profit for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue reconciled in per share the table below and in Note 8 Adjusted diluted Adjusted profit for the year divided by the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares reconciled in earnings per share Note 8 Operating cash flow Cash generated from operations before acquisition related items after deducting purchases of property, plant and equipment and software and adding back the proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and software as shown in the Consolidated cash flow statement Cash conversion % Operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit as shown in the Consolidated cash flow statement Return on average The ratio of adjusted operating profit to the average of the month end operating capital employed operating capital % being property, plant and equipment, software, inventories and trade and other receivables less trade and other payables Return on invested The ratio of adjusted operating profit to the average of the month end invested capital being equity after capital % adding back net debt, net defined benefit pension scheme liabilities, cumulative customer relationships amortisation, acquisition related items and amounts written off goodwill, net of the associated tax EBITDA Adjusted operating profit before depreciation of property, plant and equipment and software amortisation and after adjustments as permitted by the Groups banking covenants, principally to exclude share option charges and to annualise for the effect of acquisitions and disposals of businesses Constant exchange Growth rates at constant exchange rates are calculated by retranslating the results for the year ended rates 31 December 2017 at the average rates for the year ended 31 December 2018 so that they can be compared without the distorting impact of changes caused by foreign exchange translation.
The principal exchange rates used for 2018 and 2017 can be found in the Financial review on page 21 These alternative performance measures exclude the charge for customer relationships amortisation, acquisition related items, the GMP equalisation charge, disposal of businesses and any associated tax, where relevant.
The definitions of these measures are similar to those used in the prior year but this year have been updated to exclude disposal of businesses and the GMP equalisation charge, these being items impacting the reported results for 2018 no impact in 2017 which do not relate to the underlying operating performance of the business.
Acquisition related items comprise deferred consideration payments relating to the retention of former owners of businesses acquired, transaction costs and expenses, adjustments to previously estimated earn outs and interest on acquisition related income tax.
Customer relationships amortisation, acquisition related items and any associated tax are considered by management to form part of the total spend on acquisitions or are non-cash items resulting from acquisitions.
The GMP equalisation charge is a non-recurring cost of the equalisation of guaranteed minimum pensions between male and female members of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme following the High Court judgment during 2018 in the case of Lloyds Banking Group Pensions Trustees Limited vs Lloyds Bank plc and others.
Disposal of businesses represents the profit or loss on disposal of non-core businesses.
None of these items relate to the underlying operating performance of the business and, as a result, they distort comparability between businesses and reporting periods.
Accordingly, these items are not taken into account by management when assessing the results of the business and are removed in calculating the profitability measures by which management assesses the performance of the Group.
114 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 114 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 3 Alternative performance measures 3 Alternative performance measures continued In addition to the various performance measures defined under IFRS, the Group reports a number of other measures that are designed Other alternative performance measures, including the Groups key performance indicators which are set out and defined on pages 18 to assist with the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group and its businesses.
These measures are not defined under and 19, are used to monitor the performance of the Group and a number of these are based on, or derived from, the alternative performance IFRS and are therefore known as alternative performance measures.
Accordingly, these measures, which are not designed to be a measures noted above.
All alternative performance measures have been calculated consistently with the methods applied in the substitute for any of the IFRS measures of performance, may not be directly comparable with other companies alternative performance consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 with the exception of the amendments made to the alternative measures.
The principal alternative performance measures used within the consolidated financial statements and the location of the performance measures for the year ended 31 December 2018 relating to the GMP equalisation charge and disposal of businesses which reconciliations to equivalent IFRS measures are shown and defined in the table below: were not applicable in the prior year.
The principal profit related alternative performance measures, these being adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before income tax, Adjusted operating Operating profit before customer relationships amortisation, acquisition related items, the GMP equalisation adjusted profit for the year and adjusted earnings per share, are reconciled to the most directly reconcilable IFRS measures in the profit charge and disposal of businesses reconciled in the table below and in the Consolidated income statement table below.
Operating margin % Adjusted operating profit as a percentage of revenue Adjusted profit Profit before income tax, customer relationships amortisation, acquisition related items, the GMP equalisation Reconciliation of alternative performance measures to IFRS measures before income tax charge and disposal of businesses reconciled in the table below Adjusting items Adjusted profit for Profit for the year before customer relationships amortisation, acquisition related items, the GMP equalisation Alternative Customer Acquisition GMP performance relationships related equalisation Disposal of IFRS the year charge, disposal of businesses and the associated tax reconciled in the table below measures amortisation items charge businesses measures Effective tax rate Tax on adjusted profit before income tax as a percentage of adjusted profit before income tax reconciled in 2018 m m m m m m Note 7 Adjusted operating profit 614.0 111.1 33.4 3.3 466.2 Operating profit Adjusted earnings Adjusted profit for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue reconciled in Finance income 11.6 11.6 Finance income per share the table below and in Note 8 Finance expense 66.6 66.6 Finance expense Adjusted diluted Adjusted profit for the year divided by the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares reconciled in Disposal of businesses 13.6 13.6 Disposal of businesses earnings per share Note 8 Adjusted profit before income tax 559.0 111.1 33.4 3.3 13.6 424.8 Profit before income tax Operating cash flow Cash generated from operations before acquisition related items after deducting purchases of property, plant Tax on adjusted profit 129.1 29.6 3.5 0.5 2.8 98.3 Income tax and equipment and software and adding back the proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and Adjusted profit for the year 429.9 81.5 29.9 2.8 10.8 326.5 Profit for the year software as shown in the Consolidated cash flow statement Cash conversion % Operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit as shown in the Consolidated cash Adjusted earnings per share 129.6p 24.6 p 9.0 p 0.9 p 3.3p 98.4p Basic earnings per share flow statement Return on average The ratio of adjusted operating profit to the average of the month end operating capital employed operating capital % being property, plant and equipment, software, inventories and trade and other receivables less trade Adjusting items and other payables Alternative Customer Acquisition GMP performance relationships related equalisation Disposal of IFRS Return on invested The ratio of adjusted operating profit to the average of the month end invested capital being equity after measures amortisation items charge businesses measures capital % adding back net debt, net defined benefit pension scheme liabilities, cumulative customer relationships 2017 m m m m m m amortisation, acquisition related items and amounts written off goodwill, net of the associated tax Adjusted operating profit 589.3 96.6 36.7 456.0 Operating profit EBITDA Adjusted operating profit before depreciation of property, plant and equipment and software amortisation and Finance income 10.6 10.6 Finance income after adjustments as permitted by the Groups banking covenants, principally to exclude share option charges Finance expense 57.3 57.3 Finance expense and to annualise for the effect of acquisitions and disposals of businesses Disposal of businesses Disposal of businesses Constant exchange Growth rates at constant exchange rates are calculated by retranslating the results for the year ended Adjusted profit before income tax 542.6 96.6 36.7 409.3 Profit before income tax rates 31 December 2017 at the average rates for the year ended 31 December 2018 so that they can be compared Tax on adjusted profit 149.2 44.7 5.7 98.8 Income tax without the distorting impact of changes caused by foreign exchange translation.
The principal exchange rates Adjusted profit for the year 393.4 51.9 31.0 310.5 Profit for the year used for 2018 and 2017 can be found in the Financial review on page 21 These alternative performance measures exclude the charge for customer relationships amortisation, acquisition related items, the GMP Adjusted earnings per share 119.4p 15.8 p 9.4 p 94.2p Basic earnings per share equalisation charge, disposal of businesses and any associated tax, where relevant.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 115 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 115 114 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 4 Segment analysis North Continental UK & Rest of the America Europe Ireland World Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m m Revenue 5,277.8 1,797.5 1,263.6 740.5 9,079.4 Adjusted operating profit loss 317.1 176.8 86.8 56.4 23.1 614.0 Customer relationships amortisation 34.1 51.0 9.4 16.6 111.1 Acquisition related items 11.8 14.5 3.0 4.1 33.4 GMP equalisation charge 3.3 3.3 Operating profit loss 271.2 111.3 74.4 35.7 26.4 466.2 Finance income 11.6 Finance expense 66.6 Disposal of businesses 13.6 Profit before income tax 424.8 Adjusted profit before income tax 559.0 Income tax 98.3 Profit for the year 326.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 6.6 8.0 4.0 3.1 0.2 21.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.1 8.2 4.1 3.0 0.1 24.5 Purchase of software 4.2 2.9 1.3 0.7 0.1 9.2 Software amortisation 1.9 3.6 1.2 1.2 0.2 8.1 North Continental UK & Rest of the America Europe Ireland World Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Revenue 5,061.1 1,610.4 1,190.8 718.6 8,580.9 Adjusted operating profit loss 318.3 151.1 88.5 53.9 22.5 589.3 Customer relationships amortisation 28.1 41.0 10.5 17.0 96.6 Acquisition related items 15.6 12.7 4.2 4.2 36.7 Operating profit loss 274.6 97.4 73.8 32.7 22.5 456.0 Finance income 10.6 Finance expense 57.3 Profit before income tax 409.3 Adjusted profit before income tax 542.6 Income tax 98.8 Profit for the year 310.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11.0 6.0 5.6 3.6 0.1 26.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.1 7.5 4.0 3.2 0.1 23.9 Purchase of software 1.6 3.1 0.9 1.8 0.1 7.5 Software amortisation 1.6 3.4 1.0 1.2 0.2 7.4 2018 2017 Acquisition related items m m Deferred consideration payments relating to the retention of former owners of businesses acquired 19.1 28.5 Transaction costs and expenses 5.5 12.1 Adjustments to previously estimated earn outs 8.3 3.9 Interest on acquisition related income tax 0.5 33.4 36.7 The Group results are reported as four business areas based on geographic regions which are reviewed regularly by the Companys chief operating decision maker, the Board of directors.
The principal results reviewed for each business area are revenue and adjusted operating profit.
Reportable segments are determined based on quantitative thresholds in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The three business areas of North America, Continental Europe and UK & Ireland are operating segments that meet the quantitative thresholds for reportable 116 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 116 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 4 Segment analysis 4 Segment analysis continued North Continental UK & Rest of the segments and are therefore disclosed separately above.
The Rest of the World business area contains businesses in Latin America and America Europe Ireland World Corporate Total Asia Pacific which individually do not meet the quantitative thresholds for separate disclosure as reportable segments.
Rest of the World Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m m is therefore an other segment that is disclosed above as a reportable segment as this information is considered to be useful to users of Revenue 5,277.8 1,797.5 1,263.6 740.5 9,079.4 the financial statements and it also helps to reconcile the results of the reportable segments to the Groups consolidated results.
Adjusted operating profit loss 317.1 176.8 86.8 56.4 23.1 614.0 Information related to each reportable segment is set out above.
The revenue presented relates to external customers.
Sales between the Customer relationships amortisation 34.1 51.0 9.4 16.6 111.1 business areas are not material.
Each of the business areas supplies a range of products to customers operating primarily in the foodservice, Acquisition related items 11.8 14.5 3.0 4.1 33.4 grocery, safety, cleaning & hygiene, retail and healthcare market sectors but results are not monitored on this basis.
The performance of GMP equalisation charge 3.3 3.3 the four business areas is assessed by reference to adjusted operating profit and this measure also represents the segment results for the Operating profit loss 271.2 111.3 74.4 35.7 26.4 466.2 purposes of reporting in accordance with IFRS 8.
Debt and associated interest is managed at a Group level and therefore has not been Finance income 11.6 allocated across the business areas.
Finance expense 66.6 In the year ended 31 December 2018 the Group had one customer with revenue of 926.6m 2017: one customer with revenue of 876.7m Disposal of businesses 13.6 across North America, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World, representing 10% 2017: 10% of total Group revenue.
Profit before income tax 424.8 Adjusted profit before income tax 559.0 Revenue generated in the parent companys country of domicile, the UK, for the year ended 31 December 2018 was 1,168.9m 2017: 1,103.1m.
Income tax 98.3 As noted above, the businesses within each operating segment operate in a number of different countries and sell products across a range Profit for the year 326.5 of market sectors, with the vast majority of revenue generated from the delivery of goods to customers.
The table below provides a breakdown of revenue by market sector.
The other category covers a wide range of market sectors, none of which is sufficiently material Purchase of property, plant and equipment 6.6 8.0 4.0 3.1 0.2 21.9 to warrant separate disclosure.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.1 8.2 4.1 3.0 0.1 24.5 2018 2017 Purchase of software 4.2 2.9 1.3 0.7 0.1 9.2 Revenue by market sector m m Software amortisation 1.9 3.6 1.2 1.2 0.2 8.1 Foodservice 2,656.5 2,470.8 Grocery 2,388.5 2,323.0 North Continental UK & Rest of the America Europe Ireland World Corporate Total Safety 1,090.8 1,011.8 Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Cleaning & hygiene 1,065.3 996.5 Revenue 5,061.1 1,610.4 1,190.8 718.6 8,580.9 Retail 1,001.6 897.0 Adjusted operating profit loss 318.3 151.1 88.5 53.9 22.5 589.3 Healthcare 618.3 599.0 Customer relationships amortisation 28.1 41.0 10.5 17.0 96.6 Other 258.4 282.8 Acquisition related items 15.6 12.7 4.2 4.2 36.7 9,079.4 8,580.9 Operating profit loss 274.6 97.4 73.8 32.7 22.5 456.0 Finance income 10.6 The table below reconciles segment assets and liabilities to the Groups total assets and total liabilities.
Unallocated assets and liabilities include corporate assets and liabilities, tax assets and liabilities, cash at bank and in hand, bank overdrafts, interest bearing loans and Finance expense 57.3 borrowings, derivative financial assets and liabilities and defined benefit pension assets and liabilities.
Non-current assets other than Profit before income tax 409.3 derivative financial assets and deferred tax assets in the parent companys country of domicile, the UK, at 31 December 2018 were 334.4m Adjusted profit before income tax 542.6 2017: 361.1m.
Income tax 98.8 North Continental UK & Rest of the Profit for the year 310.5 America Europe Ireland World Unallocated Total At 31 December 2018 m m m m m m Segment assets 2,125.4 1,594.0 727.3 595.7 5,042.4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11.0 6.0 5.6 3.6 0.1 26.3 Unallocated assets 513.7 513.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.1 7.5 4.0 3.2 0.1 23.9 Total assets 2,125.4 1,594.0 727.3 595.7 513.7 5,556.1 Purchase of software 1.6 3.1 0.9 1.8 0.1 7.5 Software amortisation 1.6 3.4 1.0 1.2 0.2 7.4 Segment liabilities 745.5 444.0 327.8 126.2 1,643.5 2018 2017 Unallocated liabilities 2,218.1 2,218.1 Acquisition related items m m Total liabilities 745.5 444.0 327.8 126.2 2,218.1 3,861.6 Deferred consideration payments relating to the retention of former owners of businesses acquired 19.1 28.5 Transaction costs and expenses 5.5 12.1 North Continental UK & Rest of the America Europe Ireland World Unallocated Total Adjustments to previously estimated earn outs 8.3 3.9 At 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Interest on acquisition related income tax 0.5 Segment assets 1,885.7 1,580.6 753.6 600.1 4,820.0 33.4 36.7 Unallocated assets 369.6 369.6 Total assets 1,885.7 1,580.6 753.6 600.1 369.6 5,189.6 The Group results are reported as four business areas based on geographic regions which are reviewed regularly by the Companys chief operating decision maker, the Board of directors.
Segment liabilities 651.7 409.8 329.3 124.8 1,515.6 Unallocated liabilities 2,225.4 2,225.4 Reportable segments are determined based on quantitative thresholds in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The three business Total liabilities 651.7 409.8 329.3 124.8 2,225.4 3,741.0 areas of North America, Continental Europe and UK & Ireland are operating segments that meet the quantitative thresholds for reportable Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 117 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 117 116 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 5 Analysis of operating income and expenses 2018 2017 m m Cost of goods sold 6,851.8 6,490.6 Employee costs Note 22 859.4 800.4 GMP equalisation charge 3.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 9 24.5 23.9 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 10 119.2 104.0 Acquisition related items Note 4 33.4 36.7 Impairment losses on trade receivables Note 12 3.5 2.9 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.4 0.5 Rentals payable under operating leases and subleases 145.4 138.0 Lease and sublease income 0.9 Other operating expenses 575.0 527.9 Net operating expenses 8,613.2 8,124.9 The GMP equalisation charge in 2018 of 3.3m is the non-recurring cost of the equalisation of guaranteed minimum pensions between male and female members of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme following the High Court judgment during the year in the case of Lloyds Banking Group Pensions Trustees Limited vs Lloyds Bank plc and others.
2018 2017 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Auditors remuneration m m m m m m Audit of these financial statements 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Amounts receivable by the Companys auditors and their associates in respect of: audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 0.4 2.5 2.9 0.4 2.3 2.7 audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 tax advisory services 0.1 0.1 all other services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total auditors remuneration 1.0 2.5 3.5 1.0 2.4 3.4 Audit related assurance services comprise the review of the half yearly financial report for the six months ended 30 June.
Tax advisory services and all other services comprise other non-audit work which was permissible in accordance with the Companys policy and the prevailing regulations concerning the provision of non-audit services by the Companys external auditors.
It is the Companys policy to assess the non-audit services to be performed by the Companys auditors on a case by case basis to ensure adherence to the prevailing ethical standards and regulations.
In the main, other firms are used by the Company to provide non-audit services.
However, if the provision of a service by the Companys auditors is not prohibited and adequate safeguards are in place, it is sometimes appropriate for this additional work to be carried out by the Companys auditors.
The Audit Committee, which consists entirely of independent non-executive directors, reviews and approves the level and type of non-audit work which the external auditors perform, including the fees paid for such work, to ensure that the auditors objectivity and independence are not compromised.
Further information is set out in the Audit Committees report on pages 68 to 72.
118 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 118 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 5 Analysis of operating income and expenses 6 Finance income expense 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Cost of goods sold 6,851.8 6,490.6 Interest on cash and cash equivalents 5.3 4.1 Interest income from foreign exchange contracts 5.7 5.2 Employee costs Note 22 859.4 800.4 Net interest income on defined benefit pension schemes in surplus 0.1 GMP equalisation charge 3.3 Other finance income 0.5 1.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 9 24.5 23.9 Finance income 11.6 10.6 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 10 119.2 104.0 Acquisition related items Note 4 33.4 36.7 Interest on loans and overdrafts 59.8 50.9 Impairment losses on trade receivables Note 12 3.5 2.9 Interest expense from foreign exchange contracts 3.6 1.6 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.4 0.5 Net interest expense on defined benefit pension schemes in deficit 1.4 2.3 Rentals payable under operating leases and subleases 145.4 138.0 Fair value gain on US private placement notes in a hedge relationship 8.3 2.3 Lease and sublease income 0.9 Fair value loss on interest rate swaps in a hedge relationship 8.2 2.9 Other operating expenses 575.0 527.9 Foreign exchange gain loss on intercompany funding 43.5 46.0 Net operating expenses 8,613.2 8,124.9 Foreign exchange loss gain on external debt and foreign exchange forward contracts 43.5 44.7 The GMP equalisation charge in 2018 of 3.3m is the non-recurring cost of the equalisation of guaranteed minimum pensions between male Interest related to income tax 1.2 and female members of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme following the High Court judgment during the year in the case of Other finance expense 0.7 0.6 Lloyds Banking Group Pensions Trustees Limited vs Lloyds Bank plc and others.
Finance expense 66.6 57.3 Net finance expense 55.0 46.7 2018 2017 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total The foreign exchange gain or loss on intercompany funding arises as a result of the retranslation of foreign currency intercompany loans.
Auditors remuneration m m m m m m The gain or loss on intercompany funding is substantially matched by the foreign exchange loss or gain on external debt and foreign Audit of these financial statements 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 exchange forward contracts which minimises the foreign currency exposure in the income statement.
Amounts receivable by the Companys auditors and their associates in respect of: As explained in Note 1 on page 107, as a result of an agenda decision of the IFRS IC, the Group now determines on a case-by-case basis audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the whether interest related to income tax is classified within finance expense or income tax.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, finance Company 0.4 2.5 2.9 0.4 2.3 2.7 expense includes 1.2m of interest related to income tax.
In previous years all interest related to income tax was classified as income tax.
audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 7 Income tax tax advisory services 0.1 0.1 2018 2017 all other services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 m m Total auditors remuneration 1.0 2.5 3.5 1.0 2.4 3.4 Current tax on profit current year 122.8 134.8 Audit related assurance services comprise the review of the half yearly financial report for the six months ended 30 June.
Tax advisory adjustments in respect of prior years 6.9 8.0 services and all other services comprise other non-audit work which was permissible in accordance with the Companys policy and the 115.9 126.8 prevailing regulations concerning the provision of non-audit services by the Companys external auditors.
It is the Companys policy to Deferred tax on profit assess the non-audit services to be performed by the Companys auditors on a case by case basis to ensure adherence to the prevailing current year 16.6 28.5 ethical standards and regulations.
However, if the provision adjustments in respect of prior years 1.0 0.5 of a service by the Companys auditors is not prohibited and adequate safeguards are in place, it is sometimes appropriate for this additional work to be carried out by the Companys auditors.
17.6 28.0 Income tax on profit 98.3 98.8 The Audit Committee, which consists entirely of independent non-executive directors, reviews and approves the level and type of non-audit work which the external auditors perform, including the fees paid for such work, to ensure that the auditors objectivity and independence In assessing the underlying performance of the Group, management uses adjusted profit before income tax.
The tax effect of the adjusting are not compromised.
Further information is set out in the Audit Committees report on pages 68 to 72. items see Note 3 is excluded in monitoring the effective tax rate being the tax rate on adjusted profit before income tax which is shown in the table below.
The Groups expectations for the effective tax rate in 2019 are included in the Financial review on pages 20 to 25.
2018 2017 m m Income tax on profit 98.3 98.8 Tax associated with adjusting items 30.8 50.4 Tax on adjusted profit 129.1 149.2 Profit before income tax 424.8 409.3 Adjusting items 134.2 133.3 Adjusted profit before income tax 559.0 542.6 Reported tax rate 23.1% 24.1% Effective tax rate 23.1% 27.5% Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 119 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 119 118 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 7 Income tax continued The effective tax rate for 2018 has significantly decreased from 2017 principally due to the reduction in the US federal tax rate from 35% to 21% effective from 1 January 2018 and also due to the positive outcome of some previous tax uncertainties.
The reported tax rate for 2018 is also lower than in 2017 due to the reduction in the US federal tax rate but to a lesser degree as a result of a one-time deferred tax credit on intangible assets in 2017 from enactment of the new rate before 31 December 2017.
2018 2017 Tax charge Tax charge Tax on other comprehensive income expense credit Net Gross credit Net Gross and equity m m m m m m Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 11.0 3.7 7.3 27.0 9.6 17.4 Foreign currency translation differences on foreign operations 3.0 3.0 53.3 53.3 Movement from translation reserve to income statement on disposal of foreign operation 2.4 2.4 - Loss gain taken to equity as a result of effective net investment hedges 7.5 0.2 7.3 7.2 0.5 7.7 Gain recognised in cash flow hedge reserve 7.9 1.3 6.6 2.4 0.4 2.0 Movement from cash flow hedge reserve to inventory income statement 4.4 0.7 3.7 7.0 1.2 5.8 Other comprehensive income expense 7.6 4.1 3.5 23.7 8.3 32.0 Dividends 152.2 152.2 138.2 138.2 Issue of share capital 7.2 7.2 4.0 4.0 Employee trust shares 45.6 45.6 20.8 20.8 Share based payments 12.9 2.4 15.3 11.8 0.8 12.6 Other comprehensive income expense and equity 78.9 1.7 80.6 166.9 7.5 174.4 Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The Group operates in many countries and is subject to different rates of income tax in those countries.
The expected tax rate is calculated as a weighted average of the tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates, most of which are higher than the UK statutory rate for the year of 19.0% 2017: 19.25%.
The adjustments to the tax charge at the weighted average rate to determine the income tax on profit are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Profit before income tax 424.8 409.3 Tax charge at weighted average rate 2018: 25.1%: 2017: 29.5% 106.5 120.6 Effects of: non-deductible expenditure 7.5 8.5 impact of intercompany finance 5.1 3.7 change in tax rates 2.3 20.1 prior year adjustments 7.9 7.5 other 0.4 1.0 Income tax on profit 98.3 98.8 2018 2017 Deferred tax in the income statement m m Property, plant and equipment 2.0 Defined benefit pension schemes 0.8 4.4 Goodwill and customer relationships 14.3 30.9 Provisions 0.5 0.9 Inventories 0.7 2.9 Other 4.3 2.5 Deferred tax on profit 17.6 28.0 120 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 120 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 7 Income tax continued 8 Earnings per share 2018 2017 The effective tax rate for 2018 has significantly decreased from 2017 principally due to the reduction in the US federal tax rate from 35% to m m 21% effective from 1 January 2018 and also due to the positive outcome of some previous tax uncertainties.
The reported tax rate for 2018 Profit for the year 326.5 310.5 is also lower than in 2017 due to the reduction in the US federal tax rate but to a lesser degree as a result of a one-time deferred tax credit on intangible assets in 2017 from enactment of the new rate before 31 December 2017.
Adjusted for: customer relationships amortisation 111.1 96.6 2018 2017 acquisition related items 33.4 36.7 Tax charge Tax charge Tax on other comprehensive income expense credit Net GMP equalisation charge 3.3 Gross credit Net Gross and equity m m m m m m disposal of businesses 13.6 Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 11.0 3.7 7.3 27.0 9.6 17.4 tax credit on adjusting items 30.8 50.4 Foreign currency translation differences on foreign Adjusted profit for the year 429.9 393.4 operations 3.0 3.0 53.3 53.3 Movement from translation reserve to income statement 2018 2017 on disposal of foreign operation 2.4 2.4 - Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million 331.7 329.5 Loss gain taken to equity as a result of effective net Dilutive effect of employee share plans million 2.2 2.6 investment hedges 7.5 0.2 7.3 7.2 0.5 7.7 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares million 333.9 332.1 Gain recognised in cash flow hedge reserve 7.9 1.3 6.6 2.4 0.4 2.0 Movement from cash flow hedge reserve to inventory Basic earnings per share 98.4p 94.2p income statement 4.4 0.7 3.7 7.0 1.2 5.8 Adjustment 31.2p 25.2p Other comprehensive income expense 7.6 4.1 3.5 23.7 8.3 32.0 Adjusted earnings per share 129.6p 119.4p Dividends 152.2 152.2 138.2 138.2 Issue of share capital 7.2 7.2 4.0 4.0 Diluted basic earnings per share 97.8p 93.5p Employee trust shares 45.6 45.6 20.8 20.8 Adjustment 31.0p 25.0p Share based payments 12.9 2.4 15.3 11.8 0.8 12.6 Other comprehensive income expense and equity 78.9 1.7 80.6 166.9 7.5 174.4 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 128.8p 118.5p Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The Group operates in many countries and is subject to different rates of income tax in those countries.
The adjustments to the tax charge at the weighted average rate to determine the income tax on profit are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Profit before income tax 424.8 409.3 Tax charge at weighted average rate 2018: 25.1%: 2017: 29.5% 106.5 120.6 Effects of: non-deductible expenditure 7.5 8.5 impact of intercompany finance 5.1 3.7 change in tax rates 2.3 20.1 prior year adjustments 7.9 7.5 other 0.4 1.0 Income tax on profit 98.3 98.8 2018 2017 Deferred tax in the income statement m m Property, plant and equipment 2.0 Defined benefit pension schemes 0.8 4.4 Goodwill and customer relationships 14.3 30.9 Provisions 0.5 0.9 Inventories 0.7 2.9 Other 4.3 2.5 Deferred tax on profit 17.6 28.0 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 121 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 121 120 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 9 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and Plant and fittings and buildings machinery Total equipment 2018 m m m m Cost Beginning of year 93.3 148.5 103.9 345.7 Acquisitions 0.2 1.3 1.6 3.1 Additions 1.8 10.1 10.0 21.9 Disposals 2.8 6.4 4.5 13.7 Disposal of business 4.8 2.0 6.4 13.2 Currency translation 2.4 5.5 0.5 8.4 End of year 90.1 157.0 105.1 352.2 Accumulated depreciation Beginning of year 45.3 97.7 77.5 220.5 Charge in year 3.5 12.0 9.0 24.5 Disposals 2.4 5.8 4.4 12.6 Disposal of business 3.0 1.6 4.2 8.8 Currency translation 1.8 3.1 1.3 6.2 End of year 45.2 105.4 79.2 229.8 Net book value at 31 December 2018 44.9 51.6 25.9 122.4 Fixtures, Land and Plant and fittings and buildings machinery equipment Total 2017 m m m m Cost Beginning of year 92.3 145.6 97.2 335.1 Acquisitions 2.5 2.3 4.8 Additions 4.1 12.4 9.8 26.3 Disposals 3.1 5.2 2.9 11.2 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.5 0.3 0.8 Currency translation 6.3 2.2 8.5 End of year 93.3 148.5 103.9 345.7 Accumulated depreciation Beginning of year 44.7 93.0 74.1 211.8 Charge in year 3.6 11.6 8.7 23.9 Disposals 2.5 4.8 2.5 9.8 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.4 0.2 0.6 Currency translation 0.5 1.7 2.6 4.8 End of year 45.3 97.7 77.5 220.5 Net book value at 31 December 2017 48.0 50.8 26.4 125.2 Commitments for capital expenditure not provided for at 31 December 2018 were 0.2m 2017: 0.7m.
122 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 122 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 9 Property, plant and equipment 10 Intangible assets Fixtures, Customer Goodwill Land and Plant and relationships Software Total fittings and 2018 m m m m buildings machinery Total equipment 2018 m m m m Cost Cost Beginning of year 1,378.0 1,613.8 64.5 3,056.3 Beginning of year 93.3 148.5 103.9 345.7 Acquisitions 33.9 96.7 0.1 130.7 Acquisitions 0.2 1.3 1.6 3.1 Additions 9.2 9.2 Additions 1.8 10.1 10.0 21.9 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Disposals 2.8 6.4 4.5 13.7 Disposal of business 10.1 15.9 2.7 28.7 Disposal of business 4.8 2.0 6.4 13.2 Currency translation 18.6 24.6 1.7 44.9 Currency translation 2.4 5.5 0.5 8.4 End of year 1,420.4 1,719.2 72.5 3,212.1 End of year 90.1 157.0 105.1 352.2 Accumulated amortisation Accumulated depreciation Beginning of year 659.2 45.4 704.6 Beginning of year 45.3 97.7 77.5 220.5 Charge in year 111.1 8.1 119.2 Charge in year 3.5 12.0 9.0 24.5 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Disposals 2.4 5.8 4.4 12.6 Disposal of business 3.9 2.5 6.4 Disposal of business 3.0 1.6 4.2 8.8 Currency translation 11.6 0.9 12.5 Currency translation 1.8 3.1 1.3 6.2 End of year 778.0 51.6 829.6 End of year 45.2 105.4 79.2 229.8 Net book value at 31 December 2018 1,420.4 941.2 20.9 2,382.5 Net book value at 31 December 2018 44.9 51.6 25.9 122.4 Customer Goodwill relationships Software Total Fixtures, 2017 m m m m Land and Plant and fittings and buildings machinery equipment Total Cost 2017 m m m m Beginning of year 1,191.5 1,306.4 57.3 2,555.2 Cost Acquisitions 217.8 338.3 0.5 556.6 Beginning of year 92.3 145.6 97.2 335.1 Additions 7.5 7.5 Acquisitions 2.5 2.3 4.8 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Additions 4.1 12.4 9.8 26.3 Transfer to assets held for sale 4.1 4.1 Disposals 3.1 5.2 2.9 11.2 Currency translation 27.2 30.9 0.1 58.2 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.5 0.3 0.8 End of year 1,378.0 1,613.8 64.5 3,056.3 Currency translation 6.3 2.2 8.5 End of year 93.3 148.5 103.9 345.7 Accumulated amortisation Beginning of year 568.7 38.9 607.6 Accumulated depreciation Charge in year 96.6 7.4 104.0 Beginning of year 44.7 93.0 74.1 211.8 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Charge in year 3.6 11.6 8.7 23.9 Currency translation 6.1 0.2 6.3 Disposals 2.5 4.8 2.5 9.8 End of year 659.2 45.4 704.6 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.4 0.2 0.6 Currency translation 0.5 1.7 2.6 4.8 Net book value at 31 December 2017 1,378.0 954.6 19.1 2,351.7 End of year 45.3 97.7 77.5 220.5 Both goodwill and customer relationships have been acquired as part of business combinations.
Further details of acquisitions made in the Net book value at 31 December 2017 48.0 50.8 26.4 125.2 year are set out in Note 25 together with details of an acquisition committed to be acquired in 2018 which was completed in 2019.
Commitments for capital expenditure not provided for at 31 December 2018 were 0.2m 2017: 0.7m.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 123 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 123 122 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 10 Intangible assets continued Impairment tests The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated across CGUs and is tested annually for impairment.
A description of the Groups principal activities is set out in the Chief Executives review.
There is no significant difference in the nature of activities across different geographies.
The identification of CGUs reflects the way the business is managed and monitored on a geographical basis, taking into account the generation of cash flows and the sharing of synergies.
Given the similar nature of the activities of each CGU, a consistent methodology is applied across the Group in assessing CGU recoverable amounts.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less the costs of disposal.
The value in use is the present value of the cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU over a projection period together with a terminal value.
The projection period is the time period over which future cash flows are predicted.
The Groups methodology is to use a projection period of five years consisting of detailed cash flow forecasts for the first two years and CGU specific growth assumptions for years three, four and five.
For periods after this five year period, the methodology applies a long term growth rate specific to the CGU to derive a terminal value.
Cash flow expectations exclude any future cash flows that may arise from restructuring or other enhancements to the cash generating activities of the CGU and reflect managements expectations of the range of economic conditions that may exist over the projection period.
The value in use calculations are principally sensitive to revenue growth, including any significant changes to the customer base, achievability of future profit margins and the discount rates used in the present value calculation.
The information used for valuation purposes takes into consideration past experience and the current economic environment with regard to customer attrition rates and additions to the customer base, the ability to introduce price increases and new products and experience in controlling the underlying cost base.
This information is used to determine a long term growth rate which is consistent with the geographic segments in which the Group operates and managements assessment of future operating performance and market share movements.
The discount rates used are determined with assistance provided by external valuation specialists.
The Group last reviewed the composition of the Groups CGUs in 2016.
To reflect more appropriately the way that the Group is now structured, including recent changes to management oversight and responsibility, the allocation of goodwill to CGUs for impairment testing purposes was updated for the 2018 impairment testing exercise, with goodwill allocated across 11 CGUs in 2018 2017: 12.
Impairment testing was also performed in 2018 based on the previous CGUs to ensure that no potential impairments were avoided as a result of the change to the composition of the CGUs.
Based on impairment testing using both the previous and updated CGUs, no impairments were identified to the carrying value of goodwill within the Group.
At 31 December 2018 North America, France and Rest of Continental Europe carried a significant amount of goodwill in comparison with the total value of the Groups goodwill.
At 31 December 2018 the carrying value of goodwill in respect of North America was 417.7m 2017: 388.6m, France was 262.7m 2017: 257.3m and Rest of Continental Europe was 195.0m 2017: 186.5m.
At 31 December 2018 the aggregate amount of goodwill attributable to the Groups CGUs, excluding North America, France and Rest of Continental Europe, was 545.0m 2017: 545.6m, none of which is individually significant.
For North America, France and Rest of Continental Europe, the weighted average long term growth rate used in 2018 was in the range of 2.5%3.5% 2017: 2.5%3.5% reflecting anticipated revenue and profit growth.
A pre-tax discount rate in the range of 7%9% 2017: 7%10% has been applied to the value in use calculations reflecting market assessments of the time value of money at the balance sheet date.
Similar assumptions have been applied to the other CGUs but where appropriate the directors have considered alternative market risk assumptions to reflect the specific conditions arising in individual CGUs with long term growth rates ranging from 2.5%6.5% 2017: 2.5%6.5% and discount rates ranging from 6%16% 2017: 7%15%.
As part of the annual impairment testing for goodwill, the Group also considered whether there were any indicators that individual customer relationships assets were impaired and concluded that there was no such impairment.
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions Impairment testing is dependent on managements estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of future cash flows, expected long term growth rates and the discount rates selected.
A key assumption on which value in use calculations are dependent relates to revenue growth including the impact of changes to the underlying customer base.
This assumption is sensitive to customer attrition and the rate at which new customer relationships are introduced and established.
Based on past experience and taking into account current market conditions, management has concluded that it is reasonable to assume that there will be no material deterioration in the customer base over the projection period which will significantly impact future cash flows and that no reasonably possible change in key assumptions would result in impairment in any of the Groups CGUs.
Should such a change occur, this would represent a triggering event to indicate that an impairment review may be necessary.
In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, a full impairment review would then be undertaken on the relevant assets within the CGU.
Any such changes are monitored through normal monthly procedures.
124 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 124 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 10 Intangible assets continued 11 Inventories 2018 2017 Impairment tests m m The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated across CGUs and is tested annually for impairment.
Goods for resale 1,213.6 1,064.9 A description of the Groups principal activities is set out in the Chief Executives review.
There is no significant difference in the nature During the year 6.0m 2017: 8.2m was written off from inventories due to obsolescence or damage.
The provision for slow moving, of activities across different geographies.
The identification of CGUs reflects the way the business is managed and monitored on a obsolete or defective inventories at 31 December 2018 was 84.4m 2017: 79.8m.
geographical basis, taking into account the generation of cash flows and the sharing of synergies.
The recoverable amount is 12 Trade and other receivables the higher of the value in use and the fair value less the costs of disposal.
The value in use is the present value of the cash flows expected 2018 2017 to be generated by the CGU over a projection period together with a terminal value.
The projection period is the time period over which m m future cash flows are predicted.
The Groups methodology is to use a projection period of five years consisting of detailed cash flow Trade receivables 1,083.1 1,029.6 forecasts for the first two years and CGU specific growth assumptions for years three, four and five.
Cash flow expectations exclude any future Prepayments 74.2 73.9 cash flows that may arise from restructuring or other enhancements to the cash generating activities of the CGU and reflect managements Other receivables 172.7 154.9 expectations of the range of economic conditions that may exist over the projection period.
1,330.0 1,258.4 The value in use calculations are principally sensitive to revenue growth, including any significant changes to the customer base, The Group does not have any significant contract assets.
achievability of future profit margins and the discount rates used in the present value calculation.
The information used for valuation purposes takes into consideration past experience and the current economic environment with regard to customer attrition rates and The ageing of trade receivables at 31 December was: additions to the customer base, the ability to introduce price increases and new products and experience in controlling the underlying cost base.
This information is used to determine a long term growth rate which is consistent with the geographic segments in which the Group 2018 2017 operates and managements assessment of future operating performance and market share movements.
The discount rates used are Gross Provision Gross Provision determined with assistance provided by external valuation specialists.
m m m m Current 847.5 3.4 824.1 4.7 The Group last reviewed the composition of the Groups CGUs in 2016.
To reflect more appropriately the way that the Group is now 030 days overdue 186.4 1.8 166.3 0.7 structured, including recent changes to management oversight and responsibility, the allocation of goodwill to CGUs for impairment testing 3190 days overdue 55.6 2.2 46.1 1.5 purposes was updated for the 2018 impairment testing exercise, with goodwill allocated across 11 CGUs in 2018 2017: 12.
Impairment Over 90 days overdue 19.2 18.2 18.3 18.3 testing was also performed in 2018 based on the previous CGUs to ensure that no potential impairments were avoided as a result of the change to the composition of the CGUs.
Based on impairment testing using both the previous and updated CGUs, no impairments were 1,108.7 25.6 1,054.8 25.2 identified to the carrying value of goodwill within the Group.
The movement in the provision for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: At 31 December 2018 North America, France and Rest of Continental Europe carried a significant amount of goodwill in comparison with 2018 2017 the total value of the Groups goodwill.
At 31 December 2018 the carrying value of goodwill in respect of North America was 417.7m m m 2017: 388.6m, France was 262.7m 2017: 257.3m and Rest of Continental Europe was 195.0m 2017: 186.5m.
At 31 December 2018 Beginning of year 25.2 20.8 the aggregate amount of goodwill attributable to the Groups CGUs, excluding North America, France and Rest of Continental Europe, was 545.0m 2017: 545.6m, none of which is individually significant.
Acquisitions 0.8 6.1 Charge 3.5 2.9 For North America, France and Rest of Continental Europe, the weighted average long term growth rate used in 2018 was in the range Utilised and unused 3.8 4.1 of 2.5%3.5% 2017: 2.5%3.5% reflecting anticipated revenue and profit growth.
A pre-tax discount rate in the range of 7%9% Currency translation 0.1 0.5 2017: 7%10% has been applied to the value in use calculations reflecting market assessments of the time value of money at the balance End of year 25.6 25.2 sheet date.
Similar assumptions have been applied to the other CGUs but where appropriate the directors have considered alternative market risk assumptions to reflect the specific conditions arising in individual CGUs with long term growth rates ranging from 2.5%6.5% The provision amounts shown for 2017 are calculated in accordance with IAS 39 and have not been restated for the requirements of 2017: 2.5%6.5% and discount rates ranging from 6%16% 2017: 7%15%.
IFRS 9 because the value of the differences involved was not significant.
13 Trade and other payables current 2018 2017 m m Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions Trade payables 1,143.9 1,032.1 Impairment testing is dependent on managements estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of future cash flows, expected long term growth rates and the discount rates selected.
A key assumption on which value in use calculations are dependent Other tax and social security contributions 25.9 24.2 relates to revenue growth including the impact of changes to the underlying customer base.
This assumption is sensitive to customer Other payables 161.1 158.5 attrition and the rate at which new customer relationships are introduced and established.
Accruals and contract liabilities 282.7 253.6 1,613.6 1,468.4 Based on past experience and taking into account current market conditions, management has concluded that it is reasonable to assume that there will be no material deterioration in the customer base over the projection period which will significantly impact future cash flows The Groups contract liabilities are limited to deferred income of 5.5m 2017: 3.1m.
This arises from contracts with customers in the form and that no reasonably possible change in key assumptions would result in impairment in any of the Groups CGUs.
Should such a change of consideration that has been received in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations.
occur, this would represent a triggering event to indicate that an impairment review may be necessary.
Any such changes are Following a review of the Groups payable balances, the amounts disclosed for 2017 have been revised to reclassify 27.1m from other monitored through normal monthly procedures.
payables to accruals and contract liabilities to ensure that balances are classified consistently between years.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 125 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 125 124 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Group monitors the return on average operating capital employed and the return on invested capital as defined on page 114 as well as the level of total shareholders equity and the amount of dividends paid to ordinary shareholders.
The principal covenant limits are net debt, calculated at average exchange rates, to EBITDA of no more than 3.5 times and interest cover of no less than 3.0 times.
Sensitivity analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants and net debt.
Additionally, compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored on a monthly basis and formally tested at 30 June and 31 December.
During 2018 all covenants have been complied with and based on current forecasts it is expected that such covenants will continue to be complied with for the foreseeable future.
Banking covenants are based on historical accounting standards.
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of shareholders equity and bank and capital market borrowings.
All of the borrowings are managed by a central treasury function and funds raised are lent onward to operating subsidiaries as required.
The overall objective is to manage the funding to ensure the borrowings have a range of maturities, are competitively priced and meet the demands of the business over time and, in order to do so, the Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources with a variety of maturity dates.
The Groups businesses provide a high and consistent level of cash generation which helps fund future development and growth.
The Group seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
There were no changes to the Groups approach to capital management during the year and the Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Treasury policies and controls The Group has a centralised treasury department to control external borrowings and manage liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency risks.
Treasury policies have been approved by the Board and cover the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of financial instruments that may be employed and the criteria for investing and borrowing cash.
The Group uses derivatives to manage its foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from underlying business activities.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
The treasury department is subject to periodic independent review by the internal audit department.
Underlying policy assumptions and activities are periodically reviewed by the executive directors and the Board.
Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity are in place.
Derivatives and hedge accounting The Group designates derivatives which qualify as hedges for accounting purposes as either a a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: b a hedge of the cash flow risk resulting from changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates: or c a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
The accounting treatment for hedges and derivatives is set out in the financial instruments accounting policy in Note 2p.
The Group tests the effectiveness of hedges on a prospective basis to ensure compliance with IFRS 9.
Information about the methods and assumptions used in determining the fair value of derivatives is provided under the Financial instruments section on page 132.
Hedge effectiveness For hedges of foreign currency purchases and sales, the Group enters into cash flow hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument are similar to those of the hedged item, such as notional amount, expected maturity date and currency.
Hedge ineffectiveness may arise if the timing of the forecast transaction changes from what was originally estimated.
The Group therefore performs a quantitative hedge effectiveness assessment to calculate any ineffectiveness during the period.
Part of the Groups fixed rate debt portfolio is swapped to floating using interest rate swaps where the hedged items are individual tranches of fixed rate debt.
These interest rate swaps are held in fair value hedges with critical terms exactly matching those of the underlying hedged items, such as notional amounts, payment dates, reset dates, maturity dates and currencies.
As all critical terms matched during the year, the economic relationship was 100% effective.
The Group therefore performs a qualitative assessment of effectiveness.
If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group will perform a quantitative assessment of effectiveness.
Hedge ineffectiveness may arise due to a change in credit risk of the counterparty or if there is a change in timings or amounts of the hedged cash flows.
There was no material ineffectiveness during 2018 or 2017 in relation to the interest rate swaps or the forward currency contracts.
126 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 126 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments 14 Risk management and financial instruments continued Capital management Risk management The Groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future a Liquidity risk development of the business.
The Group monitors the return on average operating capital employed and the return on invested capital Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group continually monitors net as defined on page 114 as well as the level of total shareholders equity and the amount of dividends paid to ordinary shareholders.
debt and forecast cash flows to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups requirements in the short, medium and long term and, in order to do so, arranges borrowings from a variety of sources.
Sensitivity analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants and net The Group has substantial funding available comprising multi-currency credit facilities from the Groups banks, US private placement notes debt.
Additionally, compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored on a monthly basis and formally tested at 30 June and a senior unsecured bond.
Loans, borrowings and net debt 2018 2017 m m The Group funds its operations through a mixture of shareholders equity and bank and capital market borrowings.
All of the borrowings Bank overdrafts 333.5 221.3 are managed by a central treasury function and funds raised are lent onward to operating subsidiaries as required.
The overall objective is to manage the funding to ensure the borrowings have a range of maturities, are competitively priced and meet the demands of the business Bank loans 6.9 107.4 over time and, in order to do so, the Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources with a variety of maturity dates.
US private placement notes 67.8 37.3 Finance lease creditors 0.2 0.4 The Groups businesses provide a high and consistent level of cash generation which helps fund future development and growth.
The Borrowings due within one year 408.4 366.4 Group seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and Bank loans 104.3 121.5 the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
US private placement notes 1,054.3 1,080.3 There were no changes to the Groups approach to capital management during the year and the Group is not subject to any externally Senior bond 297.6 297.2 imposed capital requirements.
Finance lease creditors 0.1 0.2 Borrowings due after one year 1,456.3 1,499.2 Treasury policies and controls Derivatives managing the interest rate risk and currency profile of the debt 0.5 8.4 The Group has a centralised treasury department to control external borrowings and manage liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency risks.
Treasury policies have been approved by the Board and cover the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of financial Gross debt 1,864.2 1,857.2 instruments that may be employed and the criteria for investing and borrowing cash.
The Group uses derivatives to manage its foreign Cash at bank and in hand 477.7 333.6 currency and interest rate risks arising from underlying business activities.
The Net debt 1,386.5 1,523.6 treasury department is subject to periodic independent review by the internal audit department.
Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity Further information on the movement in net debt is shown in Note 24. are in place.
The total available committed funding at 31 December 2018 was 2,464.4m 2017: 2,464.5m.
The committed funding maturity profile at Derivatives and hedge accounting 31 December 2018 is set out in the chart below.
The Group designates derivatives which qualify as hedges for accounting purposes as either a a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: b a hedge of the cash flow risk resulting from changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates: or c a hedge of a net Committed funding maturity profile by year investment in a foreign operation.
The accounting treatment for hedges and derivatives is set out in the financial instruments accounting m policy in Note 2p.
Information about Bank facilities undrawn the methods and assumptions used in determining the fair value of derivatives is provided under the Financial instruments section on Senior bond page 132.
Bank facilities drawn 373 US private placement notes 300 Hedge effectiveness For hedges of foreign currency purchases and sales, the Group enters into cash flow hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument are similar to those of the hedged item, such as notional amount, expected maturity date and currency.
Hedge 246 128 ineffectiveness may arise if the timing of the forecast transaction changes from what was originally estimated.
The Group therefore 153 performs a quantitative hedge effectiveness assessment to calculate any ineffectiveness during the period.
33 71 171 161 138 130 124 119 40 Part of the Groups fixed rate debt portfolio is swapped to floating using interest rate swaps where the hedged items are individual tranches 87 84 68 39 of fixed rate debt.
These interest rate swaps are held in fair value hedges with critical terms exactly matching those of the underlying hedged 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 items, such as notional amounts, payment dates, reset dates, maturity dates and currencies.
If changes in The undrawn committed bank facilities available at 31 December were as follows: circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group will perform a quantitative assessment of effectiveness.
Hedge ineffectiveness may arise due to a change in credit 2018 2017 risk of the counterparty or if there is a change in timings or amounts of the hedged cash flows.
m m Expiring within one year 40.0 50.0 There was no material ineffectiveness during 2018 or 2017 in relation to the interest rate swaps or the forward currency contracts.
Expiring after one year but within two years 152.6 100.0 Expiring after two years 746.9 682.3 939.5 832.3 In addition, the Group maintains overdraft and uncommitted facilities to provide short term flexibility.
At 31 December 2018 there were no loans secured by fixed charges on property 2017: none.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 127 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 127 126 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments continued Contractual maturity profile The contractual maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December is set out in the tables below.
The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and therefore include interest cash flows forecast using LIBOR interest rates at 31 December in the case of floating rate financial assets and liabilities.
Derivative assets and liabilities have been included within the tables since they predominantly relate to derivatives which are used to manage the interest cash flows on the Groups debt.
Bank loans have been drawn under committed facilities and can be refinanced on maturity from these same facilities.
Accordingly they have been aged based on the maturity dates of the underlying facilities.
Foreign currency cash flows have been translated using spot rates as at 31 December.
Contractual cash outflows inflows After After Total one year two years contractual Within one but within but within After cash flows year two years five years five years 2018 m m m m m Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 333.5 333.5 Bank loans 117.1 8.5 1.5 107.1 US private placement notes 1,338.0 106.9 121.7 451.1 658.3 Senior bond 347.4 6.8 6.8 20.3 313.5 Finance lease creditors 0.3 0.2 0.1 Trade and other payables 1,643.0 1,613.6 29.4 3,779.3 2,069.5 159.5 578.5 971.8 Derivative financial instruments Net settled: Interest rate swaps 3.5 0.3 0.3 0.8 2.1 Gross settled: Foreign exchange inflows 1,741.9 1,741.5 0.4 Foreign exchange outflows 1,738.2 1,737.8 0.4 0.2 3.4 0.3 0.8 2.1 Total 3,779.1 2,066.1 159.8 579.3 973.9 Contractual cash outflows inflows After After Total one year two years contractual Within one but within but within After cash flows year two years five years five years 2017 m m m m m Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 221.3 221.3 Bank loans 234.9 109.2 1.3 124.4 US private placement notes 1,355.3 78.1 102.8 368.6 805.8 Senior bond 350.6 3.4 6.8 20.2 320.2 Finance lease creditors 0.6 0.4 0.2 Trade and other payables 1,499.1 1,468.4 30.7 3,661.8 1,880.8 141.8 513.2 1,126.0 Derivative financial instruments Net settled: Interest rate swaps 32.2 4.0 3.6 10.8 13.8 Gross settled: Foreign exchange inflows 2,019.4 2,019.0 0.4 Foreign exchange outflows 2,020.2 2,019.8 0.4 31.4 3.2 3.6 10.8 13.8 Total 3,630.4 1,877.6 138.2 502.4 1,112.2 128 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 128 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments continued Contractual maturity profile b Interest rate risk The contractual maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December is set out in the tables below.
The amounts disclosed are The Group is funded by a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt with the Groups main interest rate risk arising on its floating rate debt.
the contractual undiscounted cash flows and therefore include interest cash flows forecast using LIBOR interest rates at 31 December in Interest rate swaps and interest rate caps are used to manage the interest rate risk profile.
the case of floating rate financial assets and liabilities.
Bank loans have been drawn The table below shows the fixed floating rate debt mix after interest rate swaps.
Of the US private placement notes of 1,122.1m 2017: under committed facilities and can be refinanced on maturity from these same facilities.
Accordingly they have been aged based on the 1,117.6m, there are US dollar denominated amounts totalling 377.1m 2017: 353.3m, with maturities ranging from 2025 to 2028, which maturity dates of the underlying facilities.
have been swapped to floating rates using interest rate swaps which reprice every three or six months.
Bank loans are drawn for various periods of up to three months at interest rates linked to LIBOR.
Contractual cash outflows inflows After After The interest rate risk on the floating rate debt is managed using interest rate options.
Borrowings with a notional principal of 104.3m were Total one year two years capped at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 150.0m.
Hedge accounting is not applied to the interest rate caps since the majority of contractual Within one but within but within After their value is related to time value.
The strike rates of these options are based on LIBOR and are repriced every three months.
cash flows year two years five years five years 2018 m m m m m Fixed vs floating interest rate table Financial liabilities 2018 2017 Bank overdrafts 333.5 333.5 m m Bank loans 117.1 8.5 1.5 107.1 Fixed rate debt US private placement notes 1,338.0 106.9 121.7 451.1 658.3 US private placement notes 1,122.1 1,117.6 Senior bond 347.4 6.8 6.8 20.3 313.5 Senior bond 297.6 297.2 Finance lease creditors 0.3 0.2 0.1 Total fixed rate debt 1,419.7 1,414.8 Trade and other payables 1,643.0 1,613.6 29.4 Interest rate swaps fixed leg 377.1 353.3 3,779.3 2,069.5 159.5 578.5 971.8 Fixed rate liability 1,042.6 1,061.5 Derivative financial instruments Net settled: Floating rate debt Interest rate swaps 3.5 0.3 0.3 0.8 2.1 Bank overdrafts 333.5 221.3 Gross settled: Bank loans 111.2 228.9 Foreign exchange inflows 1,741.9 1,741.5 0.4 Total floating rate debt 444.7 450.2 Foreign exchange outflows 1,738.2 1,737.8 0.4 Interest rate swaps floating leg 377.1 353.3 0.2 3.4 0.3 0.8 2.1 Floating rate liability 821.8 803.5 Total 3,779.1 2,066.1 159.8 579.3 973.9 Derivatives managing the interest rate risk and currency profile of the debt 0.5 8.4 Contractual cash outflows inflows Finance lease creditors 0.3 0.6 After After Gross debt 1,864.2 1,857.2 Total one year two years contractual Within one but within but within After cash flows year two years five years five years Effects of hedge accounting on the financial position and performance 2017 m m m m m The effects of the interest rate swaps on the Groups financial position and performance are as follows: Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 221.3 221.3 2018 Bank loans 234.9 109.2 1.3 124.4 Interest rate swaps US private placement notes 1,355.3 78.1 102.8 368.6 805.8 Net carrying amount asset liability m 0.7 Senior bond 350.6 3.4 6.8 20.2 320.2 Notional amount m 375.6 Finance lease creditors 0.6 0.4 0.2 Maturity date range 2025 2028 Trade and other payables 1,499.1 1,468.4 30.7 Hedge ratio 1:1 3,661.8 1,880.8 141.8 513.2 1,126.0 Fair value gain on US private placement notes in a hedge relationship m 8.3 Derivative financial instruments Fair value loss on interest rate swaps in a hedge relationship m 8.2 Net settled: Sensitivity to movements in interest rates Interest rate swaps 32.2 4.0 3.6 10.8 13.8 After taking account of hedge relationships, a change of 1% in the interest rate forward curves on 31 December would have affected profit Gross settled: before income tax for the year and equity as at the year end by the amounts shown below as a result of changes in the fair values of Foreign exchange inflows 2,019.4 2,019.0 0.4 derivative assets and liabilities at that date: Foreign exchange outflows 2,020.2 2,019.8 0.4 31.4 3.2 3.6 10.8 13.8 Impact on profit before tax Impact on equity 1% 1% 1% 1% Total 3,630.4 1,877.6 138.2 502.4 1,112.2 m m m m 2018 1.3 1.3 2017 1.4 0.1 1.4 0.1 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 129 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 129 128 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments continued c Foreign currency risk The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned in US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies.
The Group does not hedge the impact of exchange rate movements arising on translation of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2018 2017 2018 2017 US dollar 1.33 1.29 1.27 1.35 Euro 1.13 1.14 1.11 1.13 The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the respective functional currencies of the Groups operations and so transaction exposures are usually relatively limited.
Where they do occur the Groups policy is to hedge exposures of highly probable forecast transactions using forward foreign exchange contracts and these are designated as cash flow hedges.
During the year the Group hedged highly probable forecast transactions for periods of up to 18 months.
However, the economic impact of foreign exchange on the value of uncommitted future purchases and sales is not hedged.
As a result, sudden and significant movements in foreign exchange rates can impact profit margins where there is a delay in passing the resulting price increases on to customers.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, all foreign exchange cash flow hedges were effective with a cumulative pre-tax gain of 1.9m 2017: loss of 1.6m recognised in equity at the end of the year and this will affect the income statement during 2019 and 2020.
Effects of hedge accounting on the financial position and performance 2018 Forward foreign currency hedges in relation to inventory purchases Net carrying amount asset liability m 1.9 Notional amount m 140.5 Maturity date range 2019 2020 Hedge ratio 1:1 Change in value of hedged items since 1 January m 3.6 Change in fair value of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts since 1 January m 3.6 The majority of the Groups borrowings are effectively denominated in US dollars, sterling and euros, aligning them to the respective functional currencies of the component parts of the Groups EBITDA.
This currency profile is achieved using short term foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency debt, which are designated as hedging instruments to achieve net investment hedge accounting at a Group level.
This currency composition minimises the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
No ineffectiveness was recorded from net investments in foreign entity hedges.
The currency profile of the Groups net debt at 31 December is set out in the table below: 2018 2017 m m US dollar 598.4 604.7 Sterling 351.4 437.8 Euro 375.2 373.0 Other 61.5 108.1 1,386.5 1,523.6 The Group also enters into foreign currency derivatives to hedge intercompany loans economically although these do not qualify for hedge accounting and therefore gains and losses are recorded in the income statement.
These currency derivatives are subject to the same risk management policies as all other derivative contracts.
130 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 130 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments continued c Foreign currency risk Sensitivity to movements in foreign exchange rates The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned in US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies.
The Group does not For the year ended 31 December 2018, a movement of one cent in the US dollar and euro average exchange rates would have changed profit hedge the impact of exchange rate movements arising on translation of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.
before income tax by 1.5m and 0.7m respectively 2017: 1.6m and 0.6m and adjusted profit before income tax by 1.8m and 1.2m respectively 2017: 1.9m and 1.0m.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year: If a 10% strengthening or weakening of sterling had taken place on 31 December it would have increased decreased profit before income Average rate Closing rate tax and decreased increased equity for the year by the amounts shown below.
The impact of this translation is much greater on equity 2018 2017 2018 2017 than it is on profit before income tax since equity is translated using the closing exchange rates at the year end and profit before income tax US dollar 1.33 1.29 1.27 1.35 is translated using the average exchange rates for the year.
As a result the value of equity is more sensitive than the value of profit before income tax to a movement in exchange rates on 31 December and the resulting movement in profit before income tax is due solely to the Euro 1.13 1.14 1.11 1.13 translation effect on monetary items.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the respective functional currencies of the Groups operations and so transaction Impact on profit before tax Impact on equity exposures are usually relatively limited.
Where they do occur the Groups policy is to hedge exposures of highly probable forecast 10% 10% 10% 10% transactions using forward foreign exchange contracts and these are designated as cash flow hedges.
During the year the Group hedged m m m m highly probable forecast transactions for periods of up to 18 months.
However, the economic impact of foreign exchange on the value of 2018 0.8 1.0 82.0 96.5 uncommitted future purchases and sales is not hedged.
2017 0.7 0.9 74.3 84.4 For the year ended 31 December 2018, all foreign exchange cash flow hedges were effective with a cumulative pre-tax gain of 1.9m d Credit risk 2017: loss of 1.6m recognised in equity at the end of the year and this will affect the income statement during 2019 and 2020. Credit risk is the risk of loss in relation to a financial asset due to non-payment by the relevant counterparty.
The Groups objective is to reduce its exposure to counterparty default by restricting the type of counterparty it deals with and by employing an appropriate policy in Effects of hedge accounting on the financial position and performance relation to the collection of financial assets.
2018 Forward foreign currency hedges in relation to inventory purchases The Groups financial assets are cash at bank and in hand, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for cash at bank and in Net carrying amount asset liability m 1.9 hand, derivative financial assets see page 133 and trade and other receivables see Note 12 is their respective carrying amounts.
Notional amount m 140.5 Maturity date range 2019 2020 Dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant combination of geographic presence and suitable credit rating.
The Group Hedge ratio 1:1 continually monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties and the credit exposure to each counterparty.
Change in value of hedged items since 1 January m 3.6 Change in fair value of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts since 1 January m 3.6 For trade and other receivables, the amounts represented in the balance sheet are net of any impairment losses measured using the expected credit loss model.
Note 12 sets out an analysis of trade and other receivables and the provision for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivables.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are effectively denominated in US dollars, sterling and euros, aligning them to the respective functional currencies of the component parts of the Groups EBITDA.
This currency profile is achieved using short term foreign exchange At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk 2017: none.
contracts and foreign currency debt, which are designated as hedging instruments to achieve net investment hedge accounting at a Group level.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 131 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 131 130 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments continued Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities 2018 2017 m m Financial assets held at amortised cost Cash at bank and in hand 477.7 333.6 Trade and other receivables 1,330.0 1,258.4 Financial assets held at fair value Interest rate derivatives in fair value hedges 5.8 10.1 Foreign exchange derivatives in cash flow hedges 3.8 0.6 Foreign exchange derivatives in net investment hedges 4.9 5.8 Other foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives 4.0 3.8 Total financial assets 1,826.2 1,612.3 Financial liabilities held at amortised cost Bank overdrafts 333.5 221.3 Bank loans 111.2 228.9 US private placement notes 745.0 754.5 Senior bond 297.6 297.2 Finance lease creditors 0.3 0.6 Trade and other payables 1,643.0 1,499.1 Financial liabilities held at fair value US private placement notes 377.1 363.1 Interest rate derivatives in fair value hedges 5.1 0.9 Foreign exchange derivatives in cash flow hedges 1.9 2.3 Foreign exchange derivatives in net investment hedges 2.1 7.3 Other foreign exchange derivatives 7.0 2.8 Total financial liabilities 3,523.8 3,378.0 All financial assets and liabilities stated as being measured at fair value in the tables above including all derivative financial instruments have carrying amounts where the fair value is, and has been throughout the year, a level two fair value measurement.
Level two fair value measurements use inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the relevant asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value have been determined by discounting expected future cash flows, translated at the appropriate balance sheet date exchange rates and adjusted for counterparty or own credit risk as applicable.
There were no transfers between levels for recurring fair value measurements during the year.
At 31 December 2018 the fair values, based on unadjusted market data, of the US private placement notes was 1,132.1m 2017: 1,158.2m and of the senior unsecured bond was 290.1m 2017: 304.4m.
For other financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value, including cash at bank and in hand, bank loans and overdrafts, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables, their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value due to their short term nature.
Bank loans are priced based on floating interest rates and the credit spread has not changed since the inception of the loan.
However, within other payables there is 14.1m 2017: 12.0m related to earn outs on businesses acquired which are recorded at fair value.
This is a level three fair value which is initially measured based on the expected future profitability of the businesses acquired at the acquisition date and subsequently reassessed at each reporting date based on the most recent data available on the expected profitability of the businesses acquired.
132 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 132 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments continued 14 Risk management and financial instruments continued Financial instruments Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities The following table sets out the Groups derivative financial assets and liabilities that are subject to counterparty offsetting or master netting 2018 2017 agreements.
The master netting agreements regulate settlement amounts in the event either party defaults on their obligations.
m m Financial assets held at amortised cost Gross Net amounts amounts recognised Amounts not Cash at bank and in hand 477.7 333.6 Gross offset in the in the offset in the Net amounts balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet amounts Trade and other receivables 1,330.0 1,258.4 2018 m m m m m Financial assets held at fair value Derivative financial assets 18.5 18.5 18.5 Interest rate derivatives in fair value hedges 5.8 10.1 Derivative financial liabilities 16.1 16.1 16.1 Foreign exchange derivatives in cash flow hedges 3.8 0.6 Foreign exchange derivatives in net investment hedges 4.9 5.8 2017 Other foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives 4.0 3.8 Derivative financial assets 20.5 0.2 20.3 20.3 Total financial assets 1,826.2 1,612.3 Derivative financial liabilities 13.5 0.2 13.3 13.3 Financial liabilities held at amortised cost 15 Provisions Bank overdrafts 333.5 221.3 2018 2017 m m Bank loans 111.2 228.9 Current 6.1 6.2 US private placement notes 745.0 754.5 Non-current 41.3 39.0 Senior bond 297.6 297.2 47.4 45.2 Finance lease creditors 0.3 0.6 Trade and other payables 1,643.0 1,499.1 2018 2017 Financial liabilities held at fair value Total Properties Other Total Properties Other US private placement notes 377.1 363.1 m m m m m m Interest rate derivatives in fair value hedges 5.1 0.9 Beginning of year 20.8 24.4 45.2 18.5 20.8 39.3 Foreign exchange derivatives in cash flow hedges 1.9 2.3 Charge 0.5 6.0 6.5 1.4 0.9 2.3 Foreign exchange derivatives in net investment hedges 2.1 7.3 Acquisitions 0.9 4.4 5.3 4.7 9.9 14.6 Other foreign exchange derivatives 7.0 2.8 Disposal of business 1.0 1.0 Total financial liabilities 3,523.8 3,378.0 Utilised or released 2.6 6.2 8.8 3.5 6.9 10.4 Currency translation 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.6 All financial assets and liabilities stated as being measured at fair value in the tables above including all derivative financial instruments End of year 18.7 28.7 47.4 20.8 24.4 45.2 have carrying amounts where the fair value is, and has been throughout the year, a level two fair value measurement.
The fair The properties provision includes provisions for vacant properties where amounts are held against liabilities for onerous lease values of financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value have been determined by discounting expected future cash flows, translated at commitments, repairs and dilapidations.
These provisions cover the relevant periods of the lease agreements, which typically extend from the appropriate balance sheet date exchange rates and adjusted for counterparty or own credit risk as applicable.
There were no transfers one to 10 years, up to the earliest possible termination date.
between levels for recurring fair value measurements during the year.
Other provisions include expected legal and environmental claims, onerous contracts and other liabilities based on managements best At 31 December 2018 the fair values, based on unadjusted market data, of the US private placement notes was 1,132.1m 2017: 1,158.2m estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date, determined by reference to known factors and past experience of similar items.
and of the senior unsecured bond was 290.1m 2017: 304.4m.
Management expects these amounts to be settled within the next one to five years.
For other financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value, including cash at bank and in hand, bank loans and overdrafts, The Group is a defendant in a number of legal proceedings incidental to its operations.
While any litigation has an element of uncertainty, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables, their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value due to their management does not expect that the actual outcome of any such proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will be materially short term nature.
Bank loans are priced based on floating interest rates and the credit spread has not changed since the inception of the different to the amounts provided.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 133 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 133 132 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 16 Deferred tax 2018 2017 Asset Liability Net Asset Liability Net m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 1.3 10.0 8.7 0.9 8.2 7.3 Defined benefit pension schemes 6.3 0.7 5.6 11.9 11.9 Goodwill and customer relationships 3.2 183.5 180.3 190.6 190.6 Share based payments 8.6 8.6 8.9 8.9 Provisions 12.2 0.2 12.0 11.4 0.3 11.1 Inventories 7.1 10.2 3.1 6.8 5.8 1.0 Other 19.4 3.2 16.2 14.6 4.2 10.4 Deferred tax asset liability 58.1 207.8 149.7 54.5 209.1 154.6 Set-off of tax 54.1 54.1 51.1 51.1 Net deferred tax asset liability 4.0 153.7 149.7 3.4 158.0 154.6 Except as noted below, deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate of the country of operation.
The Company is able to control the dividend policy of its subsidiaries and, therefore, the timing of the remittance of the undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries.
In general, the Company has determined either that such earnings will not be distributed in the foreseeable future or, where there are plans to remit those earnings, no tax liability is expected to arise.
Deferred tax assets in respect of temporary differences have only been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where it is probable that these assets will be realised.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of unutilised tax losses of 16.7m 2017: 12.7m.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of unutilised capital losses of 96.1m 2017: 96.1m as it is not considered probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which they can be utilised.
The movement in the net deferred tax liability is shown below: 2018 2017 m m Beginning of year 154.6 122.6 Acquisitions 4.2 55.6 Credit to income statement 17.6 28.0 Recognised in other comprehensive income and equity 4.6 12.3 Reclassified to current tax 2.5 2.8 Currency translation 1.4 5.1 End of year 149.7 154.6 134 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 134 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 16 Deferred tax 17 Share capital and share based payments 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m Asset Liability Net Asset Liability Net 1 m m m m m m Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 32 p each 108.1 108.0 7 Property, plant and equipment 1.3 10.0 8.7 0.9 8.2 7.3 Defined benefit pension schemes 6.3 0.7 5.6 11.9 11.9 Number of ordinary shares in issue and fully paid 2018 2017 Goodwill and customer relationships 3.2 183.5 180.3 190.6 190.6 Beginning of year 335,931,546 335,607,091 Share based payments 8.6 8.6 8.9 8.9 Issued option exercises 493,758 324,455 Provisions 12.2 0.2 12.0 11.4 0.3 11.1 End of year 336,425,304 335,931,546 Inventories 7.1 10.2 3.1 6.8 5.8 1.0 The Company operates a number of share plans for the benefit of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Further details of the Other 19.4 3.2 16.2 14.6 4.2 10.4 share plans as they relate to the directors of the Company are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Deferred tax asset liability 58.1 207.8 149.7 54.5 209.1 154.6 Set-off of tax 54.1 54.1 51.1 51.1 Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan and Irish Sharesave Plan Net deferred tax asset liability 4.0 153.7 149.7 3.4 158.0 154.6 For many years, the Company has operated all employee savings related share option schemes.
The existing scheme in the UK, the Sharesave Scheme 2011, was approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
It is an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC Except as noted below, deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate of the country tax advantaged scheme and is open to all UK employees, including UK based executive directors.
The Irish Sharesave Plan, which is approved by the Irish Revenue Commissioners, and the International Sharesave Plan, were first The Company is able to control the dividend policy of its subsidiaries and, therefore, the timing of the remittance of the undistributed introduced in 2006 and have since been extended, most recently following the approval of the Sharesave Scheme 2011. earnings of overseas subsidiaries.
The Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan and Irish Sharesave Plan operate on a similar basis with options granted to participating employees who have completed at least three months of continuous service at a discount of up to 20% of the market price Deferred tax assets in respect of temporary differences have only been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences prevailing shortly before the invitation to apply for the options.
Depending on the scheme, options are normally exercisable either three where it is probable that these assets will be realised.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of unutilised tax losses of or five years after they have been granted with employees saving up to 500 2017: 500 per month or the equivalent value in other 16.7m 2017: 12.7m.
currencies under the International Sharesave Plan or 500 2017: 500 per month under the Irish Sharesave Plan.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of unutilised capital losses of 96.1m 2017: 96.1m as it is not considered probable that Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 2004 LTIP and 2014 2014 LTIP there will be suitable future taxable profits against which they can be utilised.
The 2004 LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and expired in May 2014.
No further share options or performance share awards have been granted under the 2004 LTIP since that date.
The 2014 LTIP was approved by shareholders The movement in the net deferred tax liability is shown below: at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and replaced the 2004 LTIP.
The operation of both LTIPs is overseen by the Remuneration Committee of the Board and each is divided into two parts.
2018 2017 m m Part A of the LTIP relates to the grant of market priced executive share options.
In normal circumstances options granted under Part A are Beginning of year 154.6 122.6 only exercisable if the relevant performance condition has been satisfied.
The performance condition is based on the Companys adjusted Acquisitions 4.2 55.6 earnings per share growth exceeding UK RPI inflation over three financial years by a specified margin for the 2004 LTIP or meeting certain Credit to income statement 17.6 28.0 specified targets for the 2014 LTIP.
Recognised in other comprehensive income and equity 4.6 12.3 Part B of the LTIP relate to the grant of performance share awards which are conditional rights to receive shares in the Company for nil Reclassified to current tax 2.5 2.8 consideration.
A performance share award will usually vest i. e. become exercisable on the third anniversary of its grant.
The extent to Currency translation 1.4 5.1 which a performance share award will vest is usually subject to the extent to which the applicable performance conditions have been End of year 149.7 154.6 satisfied, based partly on the Companys total shareholder return performance, relative to a comparator group of companies over a three year period, and partly subject to the Companys adjusted earnings per share growth exceeding UK RPI inflation over three years by a specified margin for the 2004 LTIP or meeting certain specified targets for the 2014 LTIP.
Investment in own shares The Company holds a number of its ordinary shares in an employee benefit trust.
The principal purpose of this trust is to hold shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to certain senior employees and executive directors in relation to options granted and awards made under the LTIPs and the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme DASBS over market purchase shares.
Details of these plans are set out above and in the Directors remuneration report.
The assets, liabilities and expenditure of the trust have been incorporated in the consolidated financial statements.
Finance expenses and administration charges are included in the income statement on an accruals basis.
At 31 December 2018 the trust held 2,698,287 2017: 5,930,284 shares, upon which dividends have been waived, with an aggregate nominal value of 0.9m 2017: 1.9m and market value of 63.9m 2017: 122.9m.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 135 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 135 134 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 17 Share capital and share based payments continued IFRS 2 disclosures Options granted during the year have been valued using a stochastic model.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 2018 2017 Grant date 01.03.1819.12.18 02.03.1709.10.17 Share price at grant date 19.3624.04 22.7123.38 Exercise price nil24.01 nil23.35 Number of options granted during the year shares 3,179,752 3,121,549 Vesting period years 35 35 Expected volatility % 1718 1718 Option life years 210 310 Expected life years 2.26.3 3.06.5 Risk free rate of return % 0.91.3 0.10.9 Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield % 1.92.4 1.82.1 Fair value per option 1.9113.38 1.8411.07 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three to seven years.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The weighted average share price for options exercised by employees of the Company and its subsidiaries during the year was 23.04 2017: 23.27.
The total charge for the year relating to share based payments was 12.9m 2017: 11.8m.
After tax the total charge was 10.6m 2017: 9.5m.
For the options outstanding at 31 December 2018, the weighted average fair values and the weighted average remaining contractual lives being the time period from 31 December 2018 until the lapse date of each share option are set out below: Weighted Weighted average average fair value of remaining options contractual life outstanding years Sharesave Scheme 2011 4.42 2.22 International Sharesave Plan 4.70 1.96 Irish Sharesave Plan 4.64 2.12 2004 LTIP and 2014 LTIP Part A 2.81 7.46 2004 LTIP and 2014 LTIP Part B 15.68 4.43 The outstanding share options and performance share awards are exercisable at various dates up to September 2028.
136 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 136 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 17 Share capital and share based payments continued 18 Dividends 2018 2017 IFRS 2 disclosures m m Options granted during the year have been valued using a stochastic model.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the 2016 interim 42.8 assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 2016 final 95.4 2018 2017 2017 interim 46.2 Grant date 01.03.1819.12.18 02.03.1709.10.17 2017 final 106.0 Share price at grant date 19.3624.04 22.7123.38 Total 152.2 138.2 Exercise price nil24.01 nil23.35 Number of options granted during the year shares 3,179,752 3,121,549 Total dividends per share for the year to which they relate are: Vesting period years 35 35 Per share Expected volatility % 1718 1718 2018 2017 Option life years 210 310 Interim 15.2p 14.0p Expected life years 2.26.3 3.06.5 Final 35.0p 32.0p Risk free rate of return % 0.91.3 0.10.9 Total 50.2p 46.0p Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield % 1.92.4 1.82.1 Fair value per option 1.9113.38 1.8411.07 The 2018 interim dividend of 15.2p per share was paid on 2 January 2019 and comprised 50.7m of cash.
The 2018 final dividend of 35.0p per share will be paid on 1 July 2019 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 May 2019.
The 2018 final dividend will The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three to seven years.
The expected life is the average expected period comprise approximately 117m of cash.
19 Contingent liabilities The weighted average share price for options exercised by employees of the Company and its subsidiaries during the year was 23.04 2018 2017 m m 2017: 23.27.
Bank guarantees 2.5 1.5 Details of share options and awards which have been granted and exercised, those which have lapsed during 2018 and those outstanding and 20 Directors ordinary share interests available to exercise at 31 December 2018, whether over new issue or market purchase shares, under the Sharesave Scheme 2011, International The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the share capital of the Company at 31 December were: Sharesave Plan, Irish Sharesave Plan, the 2004 LTIP Part A and Part B and 2014 LTIP Part A and Part B, are set out in the following table: 2018 2017 Options Philip Rogerson 10,000 10,000 Grants Options available Options awards Exercises Lapses outstanding to exercise outstanding Frank van Zanten 93,991 81,478 at 31.12.18 at 01.01.18 2018 2018 2018 at 31.12.18 Patrick Larmon 132,993 130,896 Number Number Price Number Price Number Number Price Number Brian May 105,240 105,240 Sharesave Scheme 2011 749,074 338,609 15.64 275,438 9.92-18.68 105,461 706,784 12.53-18.68 9,006 Eugenia Ulasewicz 4,000 4,000 International Sharesave Jean-Charles Pauze 2,500 2,500 Plan 281,777 125,175 15.64 94,638 15.36-18.68 33,778 278,536 15.56-18.68 Vanda Murray 3,000 3,000 Irish Sharesave Plan 40,833 29,197 15.64 13,134 15.36-15.56 10,864 46,032 15.56-18.68 Lloyd Pitchford 4,000 4,000 2004 LTIP Part A 2,550,743 1,112,103 5.64-15.66 2,500 1,436,140 5.85-15.97 1,436,140 Stephan Nanninga 2004 LTIP Part B 18,943 4,147 14,796 nil 14,796 355,724 341,114 2014 LTIP Part A 8,204,493 2,296,404 19.55-24.01 1,865,237 16.38-23.36 138,717 8,496,943 16.38-24.01 2,033,394 2014 LTIP Part B 1,270,302 390,367 nil 227,932 nil 369,595 1,063,142 nil 33,762 Patrick Larmon and Jean-Charles Pauze both retired as directors on 31 December 2018.
13,116,165 3,179,752 3,588,482 665,062 12,042,373 3,527,098 Share option lapses relate to those which have either been forfeited or have expired during the year.
Details of the directors options and awards over ordinary shares made under the 2004 LTIP, 2014 LTIP, Sharesave Scheme 2011 and DASBS are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Since 31 December 2018 Frank van Zanten has acquired interests in 57 ordinary For the options outstanding at 31 December 2018, the weighted average fair values and the weighted average remaining contractual lives shares as a result of his election to participate in the dividend reinvestment plan in respect of the interim dividend which was paid on being the time period from 31 December 2018 until the lapse date of each share option are set out below: 2 January 2019.
No other changes to the directors ordinary share interests shown in this note and the Directors remuneration report have taken place between 31 December 2018 and 25 February 2019.
Weighted Weighted average average fair value of remaining options contractual life outstanding years Sharesave Scheme 2011 4.42 2.22 International Sharesave Plan 4.70 1.96 Irish Sharesave Plan 4.64 2.12 2004 LTIP and 2014 LTIP Part A 2.81 7.46 2004 LTIP and 2014 LTIP Part B 15.68 4.43 The outstanding share options and performance share awards are exercisable at various dates up to September 2028.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 137 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 137 136 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 21 Retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution retirement benefit schemes in the US, the UK and elsewhere in Europe including France, the Netherlands and the Republic of Ireland.
The funds of the principal defined benefit schemes are administered by trustees and are held independently from the Group.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Contributions to all schemes are determined in line with actuarial advice and local conditions and practices.
Scheme assets for the purpose of IAS 19 Employee Benefits are stated at their bid value.
Characteristics of defined benefit pension schemes UK The UK defined benefit scheme is a contributory defined benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The scheme has been closed to new members since 2003.
The valuation of the UK defined benefit pension scheme has been updated to 31 December 2018 by the Groups actuaries.
The UK scheme is an HMRC registered pension scheme and is subject to standard UK pensions and tax law.
This means that the payment of contributions and benefits are subject to the appropriate tax treatments and restrictions and the scheme is subject to the scheme funding requirements outlined in section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004.
In accordance with UK trust and pensions law, the pension scheme has a corporate trustee.
Although the Company bears the financial cost of the scheme, the responsibility for the management and governance of the scheme lies with the trustee, which has a duty to act in the best interest of members at all times.
The assets of the scheme are held in trust by the trustee who consults with the Company on investment strategy decisions.
The trustee, in agreement with the Company, has hedging in place to reduce the impact of inflation and interest rate movements on the funding of the plan.
The last full triennial valuation on the UK defined benefit pension scheme was carried out by a qualified actuary as at 5 April 2015 and showed that there was a deficit on the agreed funding basis.
To address the deficit, the Company has agreed to contribute an additional 5.5m per year from April 2016 to 30 June 2022.
The triennial valuation as at 5 April 2018 is ongoing.
US The principal US defined benefit pension scheme is a non-contributory defined benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The valuation of the US defined benefit pension scheme has been updated to 31 December 2018 by the Groups actuaries.
The US scheme is a qualified pension scheme and is subject to standard regulations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and the Department of Labor and Internal Revenue reporting requirements.
The scheme pays annual premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to insure the benefits of the scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held in trust by an independent custodian.
The Company has established a Retirement Scheme Investment Committee.
The members of the Committee are the scheme fiduciaries and, as such, are ultimately responsible for the management of the scheme assets.
The Committee performs the oversight function and delegates the day-to-day management process to appropriate staff.
A registered investment adviser advises the Committee regarding the investment of scheme assets.
A fide-risking strategy has been agreed for the scheme to reduce the mismatch between the assets and liabilities, whereby investments are switched from return seeking assets to liability matching assets as the funding improves, based on pre-agreed triggers.
Annual actuarial valuations are performed on the US defined benefit pension scheme.
The last annual review was carried out by a qualified actuary as at 1 January 2018 and showed that there was a required annual contribution of $6.5m.
In 2019, the Group plans to contribute $8.0m for the 2018 plan year to cover prudently this required contribution and anticipate future funding needs.
In 2018, the Group also paid a contribution of $8.0m for the 2017 plan year.
The annual review as at 1 January 2019 is ongoing.
Risks The main risks to which the Group is exposed in relation to the defined benefit pension schemes are described below: Inflation risk the majority of the UK schemes liabilities increase in line with inflation and, as a result, if inflation is greater than expected the liabilities will increase.
The impact of high inflation is capped each year for the UK schemes benefits.
The US schemes liabilities are not directly tied to inflationary increases.
Interest rate risk a fall in bond yields will increase the value of the schemes liabilities.
A proportion of both the UK and US schemes assets are invested in liability matching assets to mitigate the interest rate and also the inflation risk.
Mortality risk the assumptions adopted by the Group make allowance for future improvements in life expectancy.
However, if life expectancy improves at a faster rate than assumed, this would result in greater payments from the schemes and consequently increases in the schemes liabilities.
The mortality assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis to minimise the risk of using an inappropriate assumption.
138 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 138 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 21 Retirement benefits 21 Retirement benefits continued The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution retirement benefit schemes in the US, the UK and elsewhere in Investment risk the schemes invest in a diversified range of asset classes to mitigate the risk of falls in any one area of the investments.
Europe including France, the Netherlands and the Republic of Ireland.
The funds of the principal defined benefit schemes are administered In the UK, the trustee implements partial currency hedging on the overseas assets to mitigate currency risk.
by trustees and are held independently from the Group.
Contributions to all schemes are determined in line with actuarial advice and local The risks mentioned above could lead to a material change to the deficit or surplus of the pension schemes.
Given the long term time conditions and practices.
horizon of the schemes cash flows, the assumptions used can lead to volatility in the scheme valuations from year to year.
The Company and the trustee seek to mitigate actively the risks associated with the schemes.
Characteristics of defined benefit pension schemes UK A higher defined benefit obligation could lead to additional funding requirements in future years.
Any deficit measured on a funding The UK defined benefit scheme is a contributory defined benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
valuation basis, which may differ from the actuarial valuation under IAS 19, will generally be financed over a period that ensures the The scheme has been closed to new members since 2003.
The valuation of the UK defined benefit pension scheme has been updated contributions are appropriate to the Group and in line with the relevant regulations.
to 31 December 2018 by the Groups actuaries.
Financial information The UK scheme is an HMRC registered pension scheme and is subject to standard UK pensions and tax law.
This means that the payment The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements at 31 December were: of contributions and benefits are subject to the appropriate tax treatments and restrictions and the scheme is subject to the scheme funding 2018 2017 requirements outlined in section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004.
Amounts included in the income statement m m Defined contribution pension schemes 22.4 20.5 In accordance with UK trust and pensions law, the pension scheme has a corporate trustee.
Although the Company bears the financial cost of the scheme, the responsibility for the management and governance of the scheme lies with the trustee, which has a duty to act in the best Defined benefit pension schemes interest of members at all times.
The assets of the scheme are held in trust by the trustee who consults with the Company on investment current service cost net of contributions by employees 6.9 7.0 strategy decisions.
Total included in employee costs excluding past service cost 29.3 27.5 Defined benefit pension schemes The trustee, in agreement with the Company, has hedging in place to reduce the impact of inflation and interest rate movements on the past service cost 3.3 funding of the plan.
Total included in employee costs 32.6 27.5 The last full triennial valuation on the UK defined benefit pension scheme was carried out by a qualified actuary as at 5 April 2015 and Amounts included in finance income expense showed that there was a deficit on the agreed funding basis.
To address the deficit, the Company has agreed to contribute an additional Net interest income on defined benefit pension schemes in surplus 0.1 5.5m per year from April 2016 to 30 June 2022.
Net interest expense on defined benefit pension schemes in deficit 1.4 2.3 Total charge to the income statement 33.9 29.8 US The principal US defined benefit pension scheme is a non-contributory defined benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on The past service cost in 2018 of 3.3m relates to the cost of the equalisation of guaranteed minimum pensions between male and female final pensionable pay.
The valuation of the US defined benefit pension scheme members of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme following the High Court judgment during the year in the case of Lloyds has been updated to 31 December 2018 by the Groups actuaries.
Banking Group Pensions Trustees Limited vs Lloyds Bank plc and others.
The US scheme is a qualified pension scheme and is subject to standard regulations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act 2018 2017 of 1974, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and the Department of Labor and Internal Revenue reporting requirements.
The scheme pays Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income m m annual premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to insure the benefits of the scheme.
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 25.6 31.5 Experience gain loss on pension scheme liabilities 2.0 2.6 The assets of the scheme are held in trust by an independent custodian.
The members of the Committee are the scheme fiduciaries and, as such, are ultimately responsible for the management of the Impact of changes in financial assumptions relating to the present value of pension scheme liabilities 32.1 10.3 scheme assets.
Impact of changes in demographic assumptions relating to the present value of pension scheme liabilities 2.5 8.4 A registered investment adviser advises the Committee regarding the investment of scheme assets.
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 11.0 27.0 A fide-risking strategy has been agreed for the scheme to reduce the mismatch between the assets and liabilities, whereby investments are The cumulative amount of net actuarial losses arising since 1 January 2004 recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at switched from return seeking assets to liability matching assets as the funding improves, based on pre-agreed triggers.
The last annual review was carried out by a qualified The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries for the purposes of IAS 19 were: actuary as at 1 January 2018 and showed that there was a required annual contribution of $6.5m.
In 2018, the Group also paid UK 2018 2017 a contribution of $8.0m for the 2017 plan year.
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners years 22.2 22.3 Risks Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners years 23.6 23.7 The main risks to which the Group is exposed in relation to the defined benefit pension schemes are described below: US Longevity at age 65 for current and future pensioners years 21.7 21.7 Inflation risk the majority of the UK schemes liabilities increase in line with inflation and, as a result, if inflation is greater than expected the liabilities will increase.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 139 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 139 138 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 21 Retirement benefits continued UK US 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Rate of increase in salaries 3.6% 3.6% 3.7% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% Rate of increase in pensions 2.2% 2.2% 2.3% Discount rate 2.9% 2.6% 2.7% 4.2% 3.6% 4.1% Inflation rate 2.2% 2.2% 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescales covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The increase decrease that would arise on the overall net pension deficit as at 31 December 2018 as a result of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions was: Impact of change Impact of change Impact of change in longevity in inflation rate in discount rate 1 year 1 year 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% m m m m m m UK 11.4 11.2 8.2 8.3 14.6 15.6 US 2.5 3.5 0.1 0.1 3.8 4.0 The market value of pension scheme assets and the present value of retirement benefit obligations at 31 December were: UK US Other Total 2018 m m m m Equities 101.0 49.4 4.7 155.1 Bonds 231.1 49.7 5.6 286.4 Other 0.4 16.0 11.3 27.7 Total market value of pension scheme assets 332.5 115.1 21.6 469.2 Present value of funded obligations 329.1 131.1 24.4 484.6 Present value of unfunded obligations 11.8 11.3 23.1 Present value of funded and unfunded obligations 329.1 142.9 35.7 507.7 Defined benefit pension schemes in deficit 27.8 14.1 41.9 Defined benefit pension schemes in surplus 3.4 3.4 Total surplus deficit before tax 3.4 27.8 14.1 38.5 Deferred tax 0.6 2.5 3.7 5.6 Total surplus deficit after tax 2.8 25.3 10.4 32.9 UK US Other Total 2017 m m m m Equities 118.3 53.1 5.7 177.1 Bonds 227.7 46.8 4.2 278.7 Other 0.3 14.4 10.0 24.7 Total market value of pension scheme assets 346.3 114.3 19.9 480.5 Present value of funded obligations 347.4 136.3 23.0 506.7 Present value of unfunded obligations 12.5 12.3 24.8 Present value of funded and unfunded obligations 347.4 148.8 35.3 531.5 Total deficit before tax 1.1 34.5 15.4 51.0 Deferred tax 0.2 7.2 4.5 11.9 Total deficit after tax 0.9 27.3 10.9 39.1 Of the pension scheme assets, 449.4m 2017: 464.1m are valued based on a quoted market prices.
140 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 140 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 21 Retirement benefits continued 21 Retirement benefits continued UK US 2018 2017 Movement in net deficit m m 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Beginning of year 51.0 84.1 Rate of increase in salaries 3.6% 3.6% 3.7% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% Acquisitions 3.1 Rate of increase in pensions 2.2% 2.2% 2.3% Current service cost 6.9 7.0 Discount rate 2.9% 2.6% 2.7% 4.2% 3.6% 4.1% Past service cost 3.3 Inflation rate 2.2% 2.2% 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% Contributions 14.9 15.3 The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the Net interest expense 1.3 2.3 timescales covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Actuarial gain 11.0 27.0 Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale 0.3 The increase decrease that would arise on the overall net pension deficit as at 31 December 2018 as a result of reasonably possible Currency translation 1.9 2.9 changes to key assumptions was: End of year 38.5 51.0 Impact of change Impact of change Impact of change in longevity in inflation rate in discount rate 2018 2017 1 year 1 year 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities m m m m m m m m Beginning of year 531.5 536.2 UK 11.4 11.2 8.2 8.3 14.6 15.6 Acquisitions 0.7 3.1 US 2.5 3.5 0.1 0.1 3.8 4.0 Current service cost 6.9 7.0 Past service cost 3.3 The market value of pension scheme assets and the present value of retirement benefit obligations at 31 December were: Interest expense 14.6 15.6 UK US Other Total Contributions by employees 0.7 0.8 2018 m m m m Actuarial gain loss 36.6 4.5 Equities 101.0 49.4 4.7 155.1 Benefits paid 22.6 23.5 Bonds 231.1 49.7 5.6 286.4 Transfer to liabilities classified as held for sale 0.3 Other 0.4 16.0 11.3 27.7 Currency translation 9.2 11.9 Total market value of pension scheme assets 332.5 115.1 21.6 469.2 End of year 507.7 531.5 Present value of funded obligations 329.1 131.1 24.4 484.6 Present value of unfunded obligations 11.8 11.3 23.1 2018 2017 Changes in the fair value of defined benefit pension scheme assets m m Present value of funded and unfunded obligations 329.1 142.9 35.7 507.7 Beginning of year 480.5 452.1 Defined benefit pension schemes in deficit 27.8 14.1 41.9 Acquisitions 0.7 Defined benefit pension schemes in surplus 3.4 3.4 Interest income 13.3 13.3 Total surplus deficit before tax 3.4 27.8 14.1 38.5 Actuarial loss gain 25.6 31.5 Deferred tax 0.6 2.5 3.7 5.6 Contributions by employer 14.9 15.3 Total surplus deficit after tax 2.8 25.3 10.4 32.9 Contributions by employees 0.7 0.8 UK US Other Total Benefits paid 22.6 23.5 2017 m m m m Currency translation 7.3 9.0 Equities 118.3 53.1 5.7 177.1 End of year 469.2 480.5 Bonds 227.7 46.8 4.2 278.7 Other 0.3 14.4 10.0 24.7 The actual return on pension scheme assets was a loss of 12.3m 2017: gain of 44.8m.
Total market value of pension scheme assets 346.3 114.3 19.9 480.5 The Group expects to pay approximately 15.6m in contributions to the defined benefit pension schemes in the year ending 31 December Present value of funded obligations 347.4 136.3 23.0 506.7 2019 expected as of 31 December 2017 for the year ending 31 December 2018: 15.5m including 7.3m for the UK expected as of Present value of unfunded obligations 12.5 12.3 24.8 31 December 2017 for the year ending 31 December 2018: 7.5m.
Present value of funded and unfunded obligations 347.4 148.8 35.3 531.5 Total deficit before tax 1.1 34.5 15.4 51.0 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities at 31 December 2018 was approximately 18.3 years 2017: 19.3 years for the UK and 11.4 years 2017: 12.0 years for the US.
Deferred tax 0.2 7.2 4.5 11.9 Total deficit after tax 0.9 27.3 10.9 39.1 The total defined benefit pension scheme liabilities are divided between active members 174.0m 2017: 196.4m, deferred members 150.7m 2017: 156.4m and pensioners 183.0m 2017: 178.6m.
Of the pension scheme assets, 449.4m 2017: 464.1m are valued based on a quoted market prices.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 141 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 141 140 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 22 Directors and employees Average number of employees 2018 2017 North America 6,531 6,071 Continental Europe 5,007 4,414 UK & Ireland 4,037 3,937 Rest of the World 3,210 3,112 18,785 17,534 Corporate 61 61 18,846 17,595 2018 2017 Employee costs m m Wages and salaries 729.8 686.5 Social security costs 87.4 74.6 Pension costs excluding past service cost 29.3 27.5 Share based payments 12.9 11.8 859.4 800.4 GMP equalisation charge 3.3 862.7 800.4 In addition to the above, acquisition related items for the year ended 31 December 2018 include deferred consideration payments of 19.1m 2017: 28.5m relating to the retention of former owners of businesses acquired.
2018 2017 Key management remuneration m m Salaries and short term employee benefits 7.1 6.7 Share based payments 1.7 2.0 Retirement benefits 0.9 0.9 9.7 9.6 The Group considers key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to be the directors of the Company and those members of the Executive Committee and the Managing Directors of the major geographic regions who are not directors of the Company.
2018 2017 Directors emoluments m m Non-executive directors 0.8 0.7 Executive directors: remuneration excluding performance related elements 2.7 2.6 annual bonus 2.3 2.1 5.8 5.4 More detailed information concerning directors emoluments and long term incentives is set out in the Directors remuneration report.
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors on the exercise of share options during the year was 2.9m 2017: 0.8m.
The aggregate market value of performance share awards exercised by directors under long term incentive schemes during the year was 1.2m 2017: 1.4m.
The aggregate market value of share awards exercised by directors under the DASBS was 0.6m 2017: 1.0m.
142 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 142 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 22 Directors and employees 23 Lease commitments The Group leases certain property, plant, equipment and vehicles under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These leases have Average number of employees 2018 2017 varying terms and renewal rights.
At 31 December the total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for North America 6,531 6,071 each of the following periods were: Continental Europe 5,007 4,414 2018 2017 UK & Ireland 4,037 3,937 Land & Land & Rest of the World 3,210 3,112 buildings Other buildings Other m m m m 18,785 17,534 Within one year 104.8 36.8 93.6 31.9 Corporate 61 61 Between one and five years 286.5 70.1 247.5 61.7 18,846 17,595 After five years 121.2 4.3 67.2 4.3 2018 2017 512.5 111.2 408.3 97.9 Employee costs m m Wages and salaries 729.8 686.5 24 Cash and cash equivalents and net debt Social security costs 87.4 74.6 2018 2017 m m Pension costs excluding past service cost 29.3 27.5 Cash at bank and in hand 477.7 333.6 Share based payments 12.9 11.8 Bank overdrafts 333.5 221.3 859.4 800.4 Cash and cash equivalents 144.2 112.3 GMP equalisation charge 3.3 Interest bearing loans and borrowings current liabilities 74.9 145.1 862.7 800.4 Interest bearing loans and borrowings non-current liabilities 1,456.3 1,499.2 In addition to the above, acquisition related items for the year ended 31 December 2018 include deferred consideration payments of 19.1m Derivatives managing the interest rate risk and currency profile of the debt 0.5 8.4 2017: 28.5m relating to the retention of former owners of businesses acquired.
Net debt 1,386.5 1,523.6 2018 2017 The cash at bank and in hand and bank overdrafts amounts included in the table above include the amounts associated with the Groups Key management remuneration m m cash pool.
The cash pool enables the Group to access cash in its subsidiaries to pay down the Groups borrowings.
The Group has the legal Salaries and short term employee benefits 7.1 6.7 right of set-off of balances within the cash pool which is an enforceable right which the Group intends to use.
The cash at bank and in hand Share based payments 1.7 2.0 and bank overdrafts figures net of the amounts in the cash pool are disclosed below for reference: Retirement benefits 0.9 0.9 2018 2017 9.7 9.6 m m Cash at bank and in hand net of amounts in the cash pool 187.8 141.4 The Group considers key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to be the directors of the Company and those members of the Executive Committee and the Managing Directors of the major geographic regions who are not directors of Bank overdrafts net of amounts in the cash pool 43.6 29.1 the Company.
Cash and cash equivalents 144.2 112.3 2018 2017 Directors emoluments Movement in net debt m m Cash and cash Other Non-executive directors 0.8 0.7 equivalents components Net debt 2018 m m m Executive directors: Beginning of year 1,523.6 112.3 1,635.9 remuneration excluding performance related elements 2.7 2.6 Net cash inflow 184.9 31.3 153.6 annual bonus 2.3 2.1 Realised gains on foreign exchange contracts 3.3 3.3 5.8 5.4 Currency translation 51.1 0.6 51.7 More detailed information concerning directors emoluments and long term incentives is set out in the Directors remuneration report.
End of year 1,386.5 144.2 1,530.7 The aggregate amount of gains made by directors on the exercise of share options during the year was 2.9m 2017: 0.8m.
The aggregate market value of performance share awards exercised by directors under long term incentive schemes during the year was 1.2m Cash and cash Other equivalents components 2017: 1.4m.
Net debt 2017 m m m Beginning of year 1,228.6 126.7 1,355.3 Net cash outflow 334.0 12.8 321.2 Realised losses on foreign exchange contracts 10.2 10.2 Currency translation 49.2 1.6 50.8 End of year 1,523.6 112.3 1,635.9 The net cash inflow 2017: outflow on other components of net debt comprises an increase in borrowings of 71.6m 2017: 418.7m, a repayment of borrowings of 228.5m 2017: 87.3m and the impact of a realised gain of 3.3m on foreign exchange contracts 2017: loss of 10.2m.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 143 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 143 142 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 25 Acquisitions Acquisitions involving the purchase of the acquirees share capital or, as the case may be, the relevant assets of the businesses acquired, have been accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting.
Part of the Groups strategy is to grow through acquisition.
The Group has developed a process to assist with the identification of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the separate identification of intangible assets in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
This formal process is applied to each acquisition and involves an assessment of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with assistance provided by external valuation specialists where appropriate.
Until this assessment is complete, the allocation period remains open up to a maximum of 12 months from the relevant acquisition date.
There were no significant adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in 2018 relating to acquisitions completed in 2017, including for Groupe Hedis Hedis which was considered to be an individually significant acquisition.
At 31 December 2018 the allocation period for all acquisitions completed since 1 January 2018 remained open and accordingly the fair values presented are provisional.
Adjustments are made to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the allocation period to the extent that further information and knowledge come to light that more accurately reflect conditions at the acquisition date.
To date, the adjustments made have impacted assets acquired to reflect more accurately the estimated realisable or settlement value.
Similarly, adjustments have been made to acquired liabilities to record onerous commitments or other commitments existing at the acquisition date but not recognised by the acquiree.
Adjustments have also been made to reflect the associated tax effects.
The consideration paid or payable in respect of acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion, deferred consideration and payments which are contingent on the retention of former owners of businesses acquired.
IFRS 3 requires that any payments that are contingent on future employment, including payments which are contingent on the retention of former owners of businesses acquired, are charged to the income statement.
All other consideration has been allocated against the identified net assets, with the balance recorded as goodwill.
Transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income statement.
The acquisitions provide opportunities for further development of the Groups activities and to create enhanced returns.
Such opportunities and the workforces inherent in each of the acquired businesses do not translate to separately identifiable intangible assets but do represent much of the assessed value that supports the recognised goodwill.
For each of the businesses acquired during the year, the name of the business, the market sector served, its location and date of acquisition, as well as the estimated annualised revenue it would have contributed to the Group for the year if such acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, are separately disclosed.
The remaining disclosures required by IFRS 3 are provided separately for those individual acquisitions that are considered to be material and in aggregate for individually immaterial acquisitions.
An acquisition would generally be considered individually material if the impact on the Groups revenue or profit measures on an annualised basis or the relevant amounts on the balance sheet is greater than 5%.
Management also applies judgement in considering whether there are any material qualitative differences from other acquisitions made.
2018 Summary details of the businesses acquired or agreed to be acquired during the year ended 31 December 2018 are shown in the table below: Annualised Acquisition date revenue Business Sector Country 2018 m Aggora Foodservice UK 2 January 27.0 Talge Foodservice Brazil 3 January 28.4 Revco Safety US 9 January 28.6 QS Cleaning & hygiene Netherlands 1 March 4.9 Monte Package Company Foodservice US 9 March 43.4 Enor Foodservice Norway 12 July 25.7 CM Supply Foodservice Denmark 11 December 4.0 Acquisitions completed in the current year 162.0 Aggora Foodservice UK 2 January 2018 27.0 Talge Foodservice Brazil 3 January 2018 28.4 Volk do Brasil Safety Brazil 2 January 2019 41.5 Acquisitions agreed in the current year 148.1 Acquisition of 85% of share capital.
Although not considered to be individually material, Revco accounts for approximately 25% of the total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions during the year.
144 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 144 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 25 Acquisitions 25 Acquisitions continued Acquisitions involving the purchase of the acquirees share capital or, as the case may be, the relevant assets of the businesses acquired, There were no significant acquisitions in 2018.
In 2017 Hedis was considered to be individually significant due to its impact on intangible have been accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting.
The Group assets and was disclosed separately.
has developed a process to assist with the identification of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the separate identification of intangible assets in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
This formal process is applied to each A summary of the effect of acquisitions completed in 2018 and 2017 is shown below: acquisition and involves an assessment of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with assistance provided by external valuation 2017 2017 2017 specialists where appropriate.
Until this assessment is complete, the allocation period remains open up to a maximum of 12 months from 2018 Total Hedis Other the relevant acquisition date.
There were no significant adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in 2018 relating to m m m m acquisitions completed in 2017, including for Groupe Hedis Hedis which was considered to be an individually significant acquisition.
Customer relationships 96.7 338.3 131.7 206.6 At 31 December 2018 the allocation period for all acquisitions completed since 1 January 2018 remained open and accordingly the fair Property, plant and equipment and software 3.2 5.3 1.3 4.0 values presented are provisional.
Inventories 26.8 66.4 10.6 55.8 Trade and other receivables 23.5 103.2 38.1 65.1 Adjustments are made to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the allocation period to the extent that further information and Trade and other payables 21.0 78.9 25.2 53.7 knowledge come to light that more accurately reflect conditions at the acquisition date.
Similarly, adjustments have been made to acquired Net cash 3.6 29.1 11.0 18.1 liabilities to record onerous commitments or other commitments existing at the acquisition date but not recognised by the acquiree.
Provisions 5.3 14.6 3.1 11.5 Adjustments have also been made to reflect the associated tax effects.
Defined benefit pension liabilities 3.1 3.1 Income tax payable and deferred tax liabilities 10.8 61.9 36.4 25.5 The consideration paid or payable in respect of acquisitions comprises amounts paid on completion, deferred consideration and payments Fair value of net assets acquired 116.7 383.8 124.9 258.9 which are contingent on the retention of former owners of businesses acquired.
IFRS 3 requires that any payments that are contingent on future employment, including payments which are contingent on the retention of former owners of businesses acquired, are charged to the Goodwill 33.9 217.8 119.0 98.8 income statement.
Consideration 150.6 601.6 243.9 357.7 Transaction costs and expenses such as professional fees are charged to the income statement.
Such opportunities and the workforces inherent in each of the Satisfied by: acquired businesses do not translate to separately identifiable intangible assets but do represent much of the assessed value that supports cash consideration 148.5 594.2 243.9 350.3 the recognised goodwill.
deferred consideration 2.1 7.4 7.4 For each of the businesses acquired during the year, the name of the business, the market sector served, its location and date of acquisition, 150.6 601.6 243.9 357.7 as well as the estimated annualised revenue it would have contributed to the Group for the year if such acquisitions had been made at the Contingent payments relating to retention of former owners 12.7 23.3 2.2 21.1 beginning of the year, are separately disclosed.
The remaining disclosures required by IFRS 3 are provided separately for those individual Net cash acquired 3.6 29.1 11.0 18.1 acquisitions that are considered to be material and in aggregate for individually immaterial acquisitions.
An acquisition would generally Transaction costs and expenses 5.5 12.1 2.2 9.9 be considered individually material if the impact on the Groups revenue or profit measures on an annualised basis or the relevant amounts Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions completed in the current year 165.2 607.9 237.3 370.6 on the balance sheet is greater than 5%.
Spend on acquisitions committed but not completed at the year end 39.5 32.6 32.6 Spend on acquisitions committed at prior year end but completed in the current year 22.0 24.4 24.4 2018 Total committed spend in respect of acquisitions agreed in the current year 182.7 616.1 237.3 378.8 Summary details of the businesses acquired or agreed to be acquired during the year ended 31 December 2018 are shown in the table below: The net cash outflow in the year in respect of acquisitions comprised: Annualised Acquisition date revenue 2017 2017 2017 Business Sector Country 2018 m Total Hedis Other 2018 m m m m Aggora Foodservice UK 2 January 27.0 Cash consideration 148.5 594.2 243.9 350.3 Talge Foodservice Brazil 3 January 28.4 Net cash acquired 3.6 29.1 11.0 18.1 Revco Safety US 9 January 28.6 Deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions 25.4 9.5 9.5 QS Cleaning & hygiene Netherlands 1 March 4.9 Net cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 170.3 574.6 232.9 341.7 Monte Package Company Foodservice US 9 March 43.4 Transaction costs and expenses paid 7.8 9.2 0.8 8.4 Enor Foodservice Norway 12 July 25.7 Payments relating to retention of former owners 6.1 4.7 4.7 CM Supply Foodservice Denmark 11 December 4.0 Acquisitions completed in the current year 162.0 Total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions 184.2 588.5 233.7 354.8 Aggora Foodservice UK 2 January 2018 27.0 Acquisitions completed in the year ended 31 December 2018 contributed 151.2m 2017: 297.4m to the Groups revenue and 19.2m Talge Foodservice Brazil 3 January 2018 28.4 2017: 25.4m to the Groups adjusted operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Volk do Brasil Safety Brazil 2 January 2019 41.5 Acquisitions agreed in the current year 148.1 The estimated contributions from acquisitions completed during the year to the results of the Group for the year ended 31 December if such acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, are as follows: Acquisition of 85% of share capital.
Revenue 162.0 587.7 Although not considered to be individually material, Revco accounts for approximately 25% of the total cash outflow in respect of Adjusted operating profit 20.7 57.0 acquisitions during the year.
The estimated revenue which would have been contributed by the acquisitions agreed during the current year to the results for the year ended 31 December 2018 if such acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year is 148.1m 2017: 620.9m.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 145 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 145 144 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 25 Acquisitions continued 2017 Summary details of the businesses acquired or agreed to be acquired during the year ended 31 December 2017 are shown in the table below: Annualised Acquisition date revenue Business Sector Country 2017 m Sbe Compagniet Foodservice Denmark 2 January 13.3 Packaging Film Sales Foodservice US 9 January 4.7 LSH Safety Singapore 31 January 5.1 Prorisk and GM Equipement Safety France 31 January 6.8 ML Kishigo Safety US 31 March 26.0 Neri Safety Italy 31 March 41.2 DDS Retail US 23 May 241.9 AMFAS Safety Canada 31 May 5.8 Western Safety Safety Canada 31 May 4.2 Tecnopacking Foodservice, retail, other Spain 31 May 37.5 Pixel Inspiration Retail UK 30 June 7.3 HSESF Safety China 1 August 25.6 Interpath Healthcare Australia 31 October 13.4 Groupe Hedis Cleaning & hygiene, foodservice France 22 November 140.2 Lightning Packaging Retail UK 30 November 14.7 Acquisitions completed in 2017 587.7 Sbe Compagniet Foodservice Denmark 2 January 2017 13.3 Prorisk and GM Equipement Safety France 31 January 2017 6.8 Aggora Foodservice UK 2 January 2018 27.0 Talge Foodservice Brazil 3 January 2018 26.3 Acquisitions agreed in 2017 620.9 Acquisitions committed at 31 December 2016.
Although the acquisition of DDS in 2017 was not considered to be individually material, it was nevertheless a larger acquisition and accounted for approximately 22% of the total cash outflow in respect of acquisitions in 2017.
26 Disposal of businesses During the year the Group completed the disposal of two businesses which were no longer considered to be a strategic fit within the portfolio of the Groups businesses.
OPM, the assets and liabilities of which were classified as held for sale at 31 December 2017, was considered to be a non-core business which has most recently focused on the distribution and sale of SodaStream products to retailers throughout France.
Marketing Services was also a non-core group of businesses focused on marketing services in the UK with limited opportunities to expand overseas.
The disposals were completed on 2 February 2018 and 7 June 2018 respectively.
As a result, the net assets of the Group increased by 10.8m representing the profit on disposal of 13.6m offset by an associated tax charge of 2.8m.
The profit on disposal reflects the cash consideration received of 59.1m and a gain of 2.4m from amounts held in the translation reserve within equity, offset by the net book value of the assets disposed 45.4m, including the associated customer relationships intangible assets 12.0m and the carrying value of allocated goodwill 14.2m less the associated transaction costs of 2.5m.
The net cash inflow in the period in respect of disposal of businesses comprised: 2018 Cash flow from disposal of businesses m Cash consideration received 59.1 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 2.4 Net cash proceeds 56.7 Transaction costs paid 1.6 Net cash inflow 55.1 146 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 146 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Notes continued 25 Acquisitions continued 27 Items classified as held for sale 2017 At 31 December 2018, the Group did not have any assets and liabilities held for sale 2017: net assets held for sale of 12.4m related Summary details of the businesses acquired or agreed to be acquired during the year ended 31 December 2017 are shown in the table below: to OPM, a non-core subsidiary in France, the disposal of which completed on 2 February 2018.
Annualised 28 Cash flow from operating activities Acquisition date revenue Business Sector Country 2017 m The tables below give further details on the adjustments for non-cash items and the working capital movement shown in the Consolidated cash flow statement.
Sbe Compagniet Foodservice Denmark 2 January 13.3 Packaging Film Sales Foodservice US 9 January 4.7 2018 2017 LSH Safety Singapore 31 January 5.1 Non-cash items m m Prorisk and GM Equipement Safety France 31 January 6.8 Depreciation and software amortisation 32.6 31.3 ML Kishigo Safety US 31 March 26.0 Share based payments 12.9 11.8 Neri Safety Italy 31 March 41.2 Provisions 6.4 7.5 DDS Retail US 23 May 241.9 Retirement benefit obligations 8.0 8.3 AMFAS Safety Canada 31 May 5.8 Other 0.7 1.6 Western Safety Safety Canada 31 May 4.2 31.8 28.9 Tecnopacking Foodservice, retail, other Spain 31 May 37.5 2018 2017 Pixel Inspiration Retail UK 30 June 7.3 Working capital movement m m HSESF Safety China 1 August 25.6 Increase in inventories 96.6 94.3 Interpath Healthcare Australia 31 October 13.4 Increase in trade and other receivables 44.6 62.8 Groupe Hedis Cleaning & hygiene, foodservice France 22 November 140.2 Increase in trade and other payables 102.5 141.5 Lightning Packaging Retail UK 30 November 14.7 38.7 15.6 Acquisitions completed in 2017 587.7 Sbe Compagniet Foodservice Denmark 2 January 2017 13.3 29 Related party disclosures Prorisk and GM Equipement Safety France 31 January 2017 6.8 The Group has identified the directors of the Company, their close family members, the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and its Aggora Foodservice UK 2 January 2018 27.0 key management as related parties for the purpose of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Details of the relevant relationships with these Talge Foodservice Brazil 3 January 2018 26.3 related parties are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report, Note 21 and Note 22 respectively.
All transactions with subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
Acquisitions agreed in 2017 620.9 Acquisitions committed at 31 December 2016.
The net cash inflow in the period in respect of disposal of businesses comprised: 2018 Cash flow from disposal of businesses m Cash consideration received 59.1 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 2.4 Net cash proceeds 56.7 Transaction costs paid 1.6 Net cash inflow 55.1 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 147 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 147 146 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018
