Company Statement of Changes in Equity Notes to the Company Financial Statements Called up Share Profit and A.
Basis of preparation share premium Capital Hedging loss Total Burberry Group plc the Company is the parent Company of the Burberry Group.
Burberry Group plc is a public company which is capital account reserve reserve account equity limited by shares and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys principal business is investment and it is incorporated Note m m m m m m and domiciled in the UK.
The Company is registered in England and Wales and the address of its registered office is Horseferry House, Horseferry Road, London, SW1P 2AW.
The Company is the sponsoring entity of The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust and The Balance as at 31 March 2016 0.2 209.8 0.9 4.6 1,190.0 1,405.5 Burberry Group plc SIP Trust collectively known as the ESOP trusts.
These financial statements have been prepared by including Profit for the year 473.1 473.1 the ESOP trusts within the financial statements of the Company.
The purpose of the ESOP trusts is to purchase shares of the Total comprehensive income for the year 473.1 473.1 Company in order to satisfy Group share-based payment arrangements.
Employee share incentive schemes Value of share options granted 13.1 13.1 Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer.
The Group also Exercise of share options 1.6 1.6 licenses third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trademarks.
All of the companies which comprise Purchase of own shares the Group are controlled by the Company directly or indirectly.
Share buy-back 100.5 100.5 Held by ESOP trusts 13.3 13.3 The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Dividends paid in the year H 164.4 164.4 Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost Balance as at 31 March 2017 0.2 211.4 0.9 4.6 1,398.0 1,615.1 convention, as modified by derivative financial asset and derivative financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, Profit for the year 452.5 452.5 and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not Total comprehensive income for the year 452.5 452.5 presented its own Income Statement.
Employee share incentive schemes Value of share options granted 17.1 17.1 The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It Exercise of share options 3.2 3.2 also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Companys accounting policies refer to note C. Purchase of own shares Share buy-back 351.7 351.7 Financial Reporting Standard 101 reduced disclosure exemptions Held by ESOP trusts 11.9 11.9 The Company has taken advantage of the applicable disclosure exemptions permitted by FRS 101 in the financial statements, which Dividends paid in the year H 169.4 169.4 are summarised below: Balance as at 31 March 2018 0.2 214.6 0.9 4.6 1,334.6 1,554.9 Standard Disclosure exemption IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Full exemption IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement para 91-99 disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities IAS 1, Presentation of the Financial Statements para 10 d statement of cash flows para 10 f a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applies an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective statement of items in its financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements para 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS para 38 present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 para 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements para 38B-D additional comparative information para 111 cash flow statement information para 134-136 capital management disclosures IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows Full exemption IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes para 30 31 requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has in Accounting Estimates and Errors not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures para 17 key management compensation The requirements to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member IAS 36, Impairment of Assets para 134 d -134 f and 135 c -135 e 186 187 187 Notes to the Company Financial Statements B.
Accounting policies The following principal accounting policies have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated: Going concern Taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance and after making enquiries, the directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Share schemes The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation schemes, under which services are received from employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
The cost of the share-based incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
Appropriate option pricing models, including Black-Scholes, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made.
The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date.
The grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
In the Companys financial statements, the cost of the share-based incentives is recognised over the vesting period of the awards as an increase in investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding increase in equity.
Where amounts are received from Group companies in relation to equity instruments granted to the employees of the subsidiary undertaking, the amount is derecognised from investments in Group companies, to the extent that it was initially treated as a capital contribution, with any remaining amounts recognised as an increase in equity.
When options and awards are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held in the ESOP trusts, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme.
The proceeds received from the exercises, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium.
Share-based payments disclosures relevant to the Company are presented within note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
Dividend distribution Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the year in which the dividend becomes a committed obligation.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provisions to reflect impairment in value.
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets net realisable value and value-in-use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
188 188 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements B.
Accounting policies continued The following principal accounting policies have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements.
These policies have Taxation been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated: Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
Going concern The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit because it excludes items of Taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance and after making enquiries, the directors consider it income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never taxable or appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018. deductible.
The current tax liability is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Share schemes The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation schemes, under which services are received from Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liabilities method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
The cost of the share-based and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the temporary difference arises from initial incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
Appropriate option recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects pricing models, including Black-Scholes, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made.
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as foreseeable future.
Where Financial instruments amounts are received from Group companies in relation to equity instruments granted to the employees of the subsidiary A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the undertaking, the amount is derecognised from investments in Group companies, to the extent that it was initially treated as a capital contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or contribution, with any remaining amounts recognised as an increase in equity.
substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
The proceeds received from the exercises, net of Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities, with the exception of derivative financial instruments, are stated at any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium.
Share-based payments disclosures amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost relevant to the Company are presented within note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
approximate their carrying amount due to the use of market interest rates.
Dividend distribution The Companys primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the year in which the dividend becomes a committed obligation.
Interim dividends are recognised Cash at bank and in hand when paid.
On the Balance Sheet, cash at bank and in hand comprises cash held with banks.
Investments in subsidiaries Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are included in current assets.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provisions to reflect impairment in value.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according Impairment of investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified in creditors amounts falling due within one year unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments The Company uses equity swap contracts to economically hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the Companys share price which impacts the social security costs payable by Group companies in relation to share-based compensation schemes.
The equity swap contracts are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and classified as held for trading.
All subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement up to the maturity date.
188 189 189 Notes to the Company Financial Statements B.
Accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates the functional currency.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
Called up share capital Called up share capital is classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
C. Key sources of estimation uncertainty Preparation of the financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires that management make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best estimates at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be updated as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
Estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas where the estimates and assumptions applied have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are discussed below: Impairment of investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
When a review for potential impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on the higher of an investments fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Refer to note D for further details of investments.
Impairment of trade and other receivables The Company is required to make an estimate of the recoverable value of receivables.
When assessing potential impairment of receivables, management considers factors including any specific known problems or risks.
Refer to note E for further details on the net carrying value of trade and other receivables.
D. Investments in subsidiaries m As at 1 April 2017 1,808.4 Additions 15.9 Impairment charge 480.5 As at 31 March 2018 1,343.8 During the year the Company increased its investment in Burberry Limited by 15.9m.
During the year, the Company impaired its investment in Burberry Spain Finance Limited by 471.7m to nil upon the distribution of the value of this company via a dividend.
The Companys investment in Burberry Beauty Limited was impaired by 8.8m as the operations of this business ceased.
The directors consider that the carrying value of the investments in subsidiaries is supported by their underlying net assets and value generated by their operations.
The subsidiary undertakings and investments of the Burberry Group are listed in note 29 of the Group financial statements.
190 190 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements B.
Accounting policies continued E. Trade and other receivables Foreign currency translation As at As at Functional and presentation currency 31 March 31 March Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 2018 2017 Company operates the functional currency.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional m m and presentation currency.
Amounts owed by Group companies 423.2 Prepayments 0.4 0.6 Transactions in foreign currencies Trade and other receivables amounts falling due after more than one year 0.4 423.8 Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are Amounts owed by Group companies 475.2 246.3 translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary Prepayments 0.2 0.2 items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
Trade and other receivables amounts falling due within one year 475.4 246.5 Total trade and other receivables 475.8 670.3 Called up share capital Called up share capital is classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown All amounts owed by Group companies are interest bearing.
in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The interest rate earned is based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents plus 0.9%.
These loans are unsecured and repayable on 18 Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly June 2018. attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly F. Creditors attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of As at As at the Company.
31 March 31 March 2018 2017 C. Key sources of estimation uncertainty m m Preparation of the financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires that management make certain estimates and Amounts owed to Group companies 207.9 804.9 assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If in the Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 207.9 804.9 future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best estimates at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be updated as appropriate in the period in which the Amounts owed to Group companies 57.9 56.6 circumstances change.
Other payables 3.3 Accruals 0.2 0.2 Estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future Creditors amounts falling due within one year 58.1 60.1 events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas where the estimates and assumptions applied Total creditors 266.0 865.0 have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are discussed below: Amounts owed to Group companies falling due after more than one year are interest bearing.
The interest rate earned is based on Impairment of investments in subsidiaries LIBOR plus 0.5% to 0.9%.
These loans are unsecured and repayable on 17 June 2019.
Investments in subsidiaries are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
When a review for potential impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on the higher of an investments fair value less costs to sell All amounts owed to Group companies falling due within one year are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
and value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
G. Called up share capital Impairment of trade and other receivables Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m The Company is required to make an estimate of the recoverable value of receivables.
When assessing potential impairment of Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2017: 0.05p each receivables, management considers factors including any specific known problems or risks.
Refer to note E for further details on the As at 1 April 2017 445,173,065 0.2 net carrying value of trade and other receivables.
Allotted on exercise of options during the year 266,139 Cancellation of treasury shares 27,164,081 D. Investments in subsidiaries As at 31 March 2018 418,275,123 0.2 m As at 1 April 2017 1,808.4 The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum of Additions 15.9 10% of its issued share capital.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Company entered into agreements to purchase 350m Impairment charge 480.5 2017: 100m of its own shares back, excluding stamp duty, as part of a share buy-back programme.
Own shares purchased by the As at 31 March 2018 1,343.8 Company, as part of a share buy-back programme, are classified as treasury shares and their cost offset against the profit and loss account.
When treasury shares are cancelled, a transfer is made from the profit and loss account to the capital redemption reserve, During the year the Company increased its investment in Burberry Limited by 15.9m.
equivalent to the nominal value of the shares purchased and subsequently cancelled.
In the year ended 31 March 2018, 27.2m treasury shares with a nominal value of 14,000 were cancelled 2017: nil.
The cost of shares purchased by ESOP trusts are During the year, the Company impaired its investment in Burberry Spain Finance Limited by 471.7m to nil upon the distribution of offset against the profit and loss account, as the amounts paid reduce the profits available for distribution by the Company.
the value of this company via a dividend.
190 191 191 Notes to the Company Financial Statements G. Called up share capital continued As at 31 March 2018 the Company held no treasury shares offset against the profit and loss reserve 2017: treasury shares with a value of 97.2m, including stamp duty of 0.5m.
As at 31 March 2018 the Company held no treasury shares 2017: 6.7m, with a market value of 116.1m.
At 31 March 2018 no payment obligation has been recognised in other payables relating to the cost of shares not yet purchased under the current share buy-back agreement 2017: 3.3m.
As at 31 March 2018 the amount of own shares held by ESOP trusts and offset against the profit and loss account is 40.5m 2017: 44.7m.
As at 31 March 2018, the ESOP trusts held 2.9m shares 2017: 3.5m in the Company, with a market value of 49.8m 2017: 59.6m.
In the year to 31 March 2018 the ESOP trusts and the Company have waived their entitlement to dividends of 2.0m 2017: 1.7m.
The capital reserve consists of the capital redemption reserve arising on the purchase of own shares.
H. Dividends Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Prior year final dividend paid 28.4p per share 2017: 26.8p 123.0 118.6 Interim dividend paid 11.0p per share 2017: 10.5p 46.4 45.8 Total 169.4 164.4 A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2018 of 30.3p 2017: 28.4p per share, amounting to 125.3m, has been proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The final dividend has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on 3 August 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 June 2018.
Financial guarantees On 25 November 2014, the Group entered into a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of third-party banks.
At 31 March 2018, there were nil outstanding drawings 2017: nil.
The facility matures in November 2021.
The companies acting as guarantor to the facility consist of Burberry Group plc, Burberry Limited, Burberry Asia Limited, Burberry Wholesale Limited US and Burberry Limited US.
The fair value of this financial guarantee as at 31 March 2018 is nil 2017: nil.
A potential liability may arise in the future if one of the Group members defaults on the loan facility.
Each guarantor, including Burberry Group plc, would be liable to cover the amounts outstanding, including principal and interest elements.
Audit fees The Company has incurred audit fees of 0.1m for the current year which are borne by Burberry Limited 2017: 0.1m.
K. Employee costs The Company has no employees and therefore no employee costs are included in these financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: nil.
192 192 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information GENERAL SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES DIVIDENDS Enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as the transfer of An interim dividend for the financial year ended shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates 31March2018 of 11.0p per ordinary share was paid on or dividend cheques, should be referred to the Companys 2February 2018.
A final dividend of 30.3p per share has Registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, been proposed and, subject to approval at the Annual West Sussex, BN99 6DA General Meeting on 12 July 2018, will be paid according tothe following timetable: Tel: 0371 384 2839.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Final dividend record date: 29 June 2018 Deadline for return of DRIP mandate forms: 13 July 2018 Please dial 44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK or Final dividend payment date: 3 August 2018 see help.
co. uk for additional information.
The ADR local payment date will be approximately five AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS business days after the proposed dividend payment date We have a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt for ordinary shareholders.
ADR programme to enable US investors to purchase ADRsin US Dollars.
Each ADR represents one Burberry Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK ordinary share.
bankaccount, with the tax voucher being sent to the shareholders address.
This is the easiest way for For queries relating to ADRs in Burberry, please use the shareholders to receive dividend payments and avoids following contact details: therisk of lost or out of date cheques.
A dividend mandate form is available from Equiniti or at www.
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services P. O.
Box 30170 If you are a UK taxpayer, please note that you are eligible College Station, TX 77842-3170 for a tax-free Dividend Allowance of 5,000 in each tax year.
Any dividends received above this amount will be Tel: Toll free within the US: 1 888 269 2377 subject to taxation.
Dividends paid on shares held within Tel: International: 1 201 680 6825 pensions and Individual Savings Accounts ISAs will Email enquiries: shrrelations@.
com continue to be tax-free.
Further information can be Website: www.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING DIVIDENDS PAYABLE IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES Our Annual General Meeting will be held at the Conrad Equiniti are able to pay dividends to shareholder bank London St. James, 22-28 Broadway, London, SW1H 0BH, on accounts in over 30 currencies worldwide through the Thursday, 12 July 2018.
An administrative fee will be deducted from each dividend payment.
Further details can The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business be obtained from Equiniti or online at www.
to be conducted at the meeting, is available on our Company website at www.
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN Our Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP enables The voting results for the 2018 Annual General Meeting will shareholders to use their dividends to buy further also be accessible on www.
Full details of the DRIP can be obtained the meeting.
If shareholders would like their final 2018 dividend and future dividends to qualify for the DRIP, UPDATES TO OUR PRIVACY POLICY completed application forms must be returned to The General Data Protection Regulation applies from Equinitiby 13 July 2018.
Please see the updated privacy policy on www.
com for details on how Burberry DUPLICATE ACCOUNTS collectsand uses shareholder personal information.
Shareholders who have more than one account due to inconsistency in account details may avoid duplicate mailings by contacting Equiniti and requesting the amalgamation of their share accounts.
193 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION For telephone dealing, please telephone 03456 037 037 Shareholders may at any time choose to receive between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for allshareholder documentation in electronic form via internet dealing visit www.
theinternet, rather than in paper format.
Shareholders Shareholders will need their reference number which whodecide to register for this option will receive an can be found on their share certificate.
emaileach time a shareholder document is published onthe internet.
Shareholders who wish to receive SHAREGIFT documentation in electronic form should register online Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value atwww.
ofwhich makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to consider donating their shares to charity through ShareGift, Equiniti offers a range of shareholder information and a donation scheme operated by The Orr Mackintosh services online at www.
A ShareGift donation form can be obtained for those with hearing difficulties is available by calling: from Equiniti.
Further information is available at 0371 384 2255.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday www.
org or by telephone on 0207 9303 737. to Friday.
Please call 44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK.
SHARE PRICE INFORMATION The latest Burberry Group plc share price is available on FINANCIAL CALENDAR the Companys website at www.
First quarter trading update: 11 July 2018 Annual General Meeting: 12 July 2018 UNAUTHORISED BROKERS BOILER ROOM SCAMS Interim results announcement: November 2018 Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Third quarter trading update: January 2019 advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free Preliminary results announcement: May 2019 company reports.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them REGISTERED OFFICE what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in Burberry Group plc US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly Horseferry House known as boiler rooms.
Horseferry Road London If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, get SW1P 2AW thecorrect name of the person and organisation, and check that they are properly authorised by the FCA Registered in England and Wales beforegetting involved.
This can be done by visiting Registered Number 03458224 www.
com If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be SHARE BUYBACK eligibleto receive payment under the Financial Services From July 2017 to February 2018, we completed a buyback Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
A further share buyback of 150m will be completed in FY 2018 19.
Further details are provided in If you think you have been approached by an unauthorised the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting, which is firm, you should contact the FCA consumer helpline available on our website at www.
SHARE DEALING More detailed information can be found on the FCA website Burberry Group plc shares can be traded through most at www.
uk consumers protect-yourself banks, building societies or stock brokers.
atelephone and internet dealing service.
Terms and conditions and details of the commission charges are WEBSITE available on request.
This Annual Report and other information about BurberryGroup plc, including share price information anddetails of results announcements, are available at www.
194 195 p u b l i c Pages 1-196 are printed on Oxygen Offset which is made from 100% fide-inked pulp recycled fibre.
The cover of this report is printed on Colorplan.
This productismade from virgin ECF pulp, which is produced from sawmill residues, forest thinnings, and roundwoodfrom managed sustainable forests.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint who areaCarbon Neutral Company using their technology.
Both the manufacturing mills and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 andare Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
com Disclaimer The purpose of thisAnnual Reportis to provide information to the members of Burberry Group plc.
This document contains certain statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group including among other things, statements about expected revenues, margins, earnings per share or other financial or other measures.
Forwardlooking statementsappear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of ourofficers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business we operate.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertaintyand subject to a number of riskssince future events and circumstances can causeactualresults and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this document and unless otherwise required by applicable law the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profitforecast.
All members, wherever located, should consult any additional disclosures that the Company may make in any regulatory announcements or documents which it publishes.
The Company and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this document save as would arise under English law.
This document does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Burberry Group plc shares, in the UK, or in the USA, or under the USASecurities Act 1933 or any other jurisdiction.
