Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, retailer and wholesaler.
The Group also licenses third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trademarks.
All of the companies which comprise the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with the European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance, and after making enquiries, the directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018.
There have been no new standards, amendments or interpretations issued and made effective for the financial period commencing 1 April 2017 that have had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
As at 31 March 2018, the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations, which may be relevant to the Groups results, were issued but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial instruments This standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 replaces the guidance in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The new standard: 1. retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost: fair value through OCI: and fair value through P&L: 2. introduces a forward-looking impairment model based on expected credit losses on financial assets: and 3. updates hedge accounting requirements, to more closely align the accounting with the risk management activities.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard also introduces revised disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The adoption of the hedging element of IFRS 9 is an accounting policy choice but will become a requirement when IFRS 9 Macro hedging is endorsed by the European Union.
The Group does not intend to adopt the hedging element of IFRS 9 at this time and so will continue to hedge account under IAS 39.
The most significant impact of the hedging requirements for the Groups cash flow hedge programme is the requirement for gains or losses on hedge instruments to be included in the carrying amount of underlying hedged items when they are recognised.
Adopting the other elements of IFRS 9 will have some effect on the measurement of the Groups bad debt provisions but this does not have a significant impact on the Groups results for the current year.
Adopting IFRS 9 will also result in a change in classification of financial instruments to reflect the new measurement categories.
The most significant impact for Burberry is that cash equivalents held in money market funds will be classified as fair value through P&L where they are currently measured at amortised cost.
However, as the Group only invests in low volatility funds at present, this change in measurement basis does not impact the book value of cash equivalents in the current year.
The Group will apply the new rules retrospectively from 1 April 2018, with the practical expedient permitted under the standard.
Comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2018 will not be restated.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers This standard deals with revenue recognition and replaces both IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts, providing a single revenue standard to be applied across all industries.
Under the new standard, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service.
IFRS 15 establishes principles for reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
There will also be additional disclosure requirements.
The Group will apply the modified retrospective transition approach with the cumulative impact of initial adoption recognised at the date of initial application.
The impact of adopting this standard has been assessed and will result in a delay in the timing of a portion of the Groups digital revenue due to a difference between the assessment of the transfer of control under the new standard and the transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership under existing guidance.
Based on this assessment the impact on the current year's results is not significant.
IFRS 16 Leases This standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both lessees and lessors.
It replaces IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
The most significant changes are in relation to lessee accounting.
Under the new standard, the concept of assessing a lease contract as either operating or financing is replaced by a single lessee accounting model.
Under this new model, substantially all lease contracts will result in a lessee acquiring a right-to-use asset and obtaining financing.
The lessee will be required to recognise a corresponding asset and liability.
The asset will be depreciated over the term of the lease and the interest on the financing liability will be charged over the same period.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Adopting this new standard will result in a fundamental change to the Groups Balance Sheet, with right-to-use assets and accompanying financing liabilities for the Groups retail stores, warehouses and offices being recognised for the first time.
The Income Statement will also be impacted, with rent expense relating to operating leases being replaced by a depreciation charge arising from the right-to-use assets and interest charges arising from lease financing.
The Group has carried out a review of existing leases and other contractual arrangements to identify any lease arrangements that would need to be recognised under IFRS 16.
The IFRS 16 implementation project is in progress and the impact will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
Refer to note 24 for details of the Groups future minimum lease commitments at 31 March 2018.
These future minimum lease commitments give an indication of the magnitude of the lease liability to be recognised on adoption.
Note that the future minimum lease commitments disclosed at note 24 include undiscounted payments up to the date of the Groups first available termination option.
The lease term under IFRS 16 will include further terms under which the Group has the option to continue to use the asset if it is reasonably certain at the inception of the lease that the Group will exercise that option.
The amount recognised on the balance sheet under IFRS 16 will be the present value of these future payments.
142 142 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation continued Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, retailer and wholesaler.
The Group also Basis of consolidation licenses third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trademarks.
All of the companies which comprise The Groups annual financial statements comprise those of Burberry Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries, presented as a the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
The results of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies across the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with the European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and parts of the Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred value through profit or loss.
to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the portion of the reporting period during which Taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance, and after making enquiries, the directors consider it the Group had control.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised profits on transactions between Group companies are appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018. eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries from non-controlling interests, the There have been no new standards, amendments or interpretations issued and made effective for the financial period commencing difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is 1 April 2017 that have had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Gains or losses on disposals of interests in subsidiaries to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
As at 31 March 2018, the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations, which may be relevant to the Key sources of estimation uncertainty Groups results, were issued but not yet effective: Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the measurement of reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of IFRS 9 Financial instruments contingent liabilities.
This standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best estimates at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be updated as appropriate in the period The new standard: in which the circumstances change.
1. retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost: fair value through OCI: and fair value through P&L: Estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future 2. introduces a forward-looking impairment model based on expected credit losses on financial assets: and events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas where the estimates and assumptions applied 3. updates hedge accounting requirements, to more closely align the accounting with the risk management activities.
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
Further details of the Groups accounting policies in relation to these areas are provided in note 2.
The adoption of the hedging element of IFRS 9 is an accounting policy choice but will become a requirement when IFRS 9 Macro hedging is Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions endorsed by the European Union.
The Group does not intend to adopt the hedging element of IFRS 9 at this time and so will continue to hedge account under Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount IAS 39.
The most significant impact of the hedging requirements for the Groups cash flow hedge programme is the requirement for gains or losses on hedge may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit instruments to be included in the carrying amount of underlying hedged items when they are recognised.
Adopting is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates in the period.
IFRS 9 will also result in a change in classification of financial instruments to reflect the new measurement categories.
The most significant impact for Burberry is Where the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is negative, the need for an onerous lease provision in relation to the that cash equivalents held in money market funds will be classified as fair value through P&L where they are currently measured at amortised cost.
However, as committed future minimum lease payments is considered.
Refer to note 14 for further details of property, plant and equipment the Group only invests in low volatility funds at present, this change in measurement basis does not impact the book value of cash equivalents in the current and impairment reviews carried out in the period.
Refer to note 21 for further details of onerous lease provisions.
Inventory provisioning IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.
As a result, it This standard deals with revenue recognition and replaces both IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts, providing a single revenue standard to be is necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of inventories and the associated provisioning required.
When calculating applied across all industries.
IFRS 15 establishes principles inventory provisions, management considers the nature and condition of the inventory, as well as applying assumptions around for reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
There anticipated saleability of finished goods and future usage of raw materials.
Refer to note 17 for further details of the carrying value will also be additional disclosure requirements.
The impact of adopting of inventory.
this standard has been assessed and will result in a delay in the timing of a portion of the Groups digital revenue due to a difference between the assessment of the transfer of control under the new standard and the transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership under existing guidance.
Based on this assessment the Key judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies impact on the current year's results is not significant.
Judgements are those decisions made when applying accounting policies which have a significant impact on the amounts recognised IFRS 16 Leases in the Group financial statements.
Further details of the Groups accounting policies in relation to these areas are provided in note This standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both lessees and lessors.
Key judgements that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements are discussed below: Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
Under this new model, Payment in relation to disposal of Beauty operations substantially all lease contracts will result in a lessee acquiring a right-to-use asset and obtaining financing.
The lessee will be required to recognise a The Group received 130m upon completion of the disposal of the Beauty operations and the granting of a licence for Beauty corresponding asset and liability.
Adopting this new standard will result in a fundamental change to the products to the acquirer.
Management has applied judgement in assessing the nature of the payment in order to determine the Groups Balance Sheet, with right-to-use assets and accompanying financing liabilities for the Groups retail stores, warehouses and offices being recognised for correct accounting treatment.
Management has determined that the payment represents both consideration received for the the first time.
The Income Statement will also be impacted, with rent expense relating to operating leases being replaced by a depreciation charge arising from disposal of the Beauty operations as well as upfront revenue for the ongoing licence.
In order to identify the payment that relates the right-to-use assets and interest charges arising from lease financing.
The Group has carried out a review of existing leases and other contractual to the licence, management prepared a market-based valuation of the ongoing licence using the relief-from-royalty method, arrangements to identify any lease arrangements that would need to be recognised under IFRS 16.
The IFRS 16 implementation project is in progress and the based on key assumptions including future sales projections and royalty rates.
Management also prepared a discounted cash flow impact will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
These calculation to determine the fair value of the Beauty operations transferred.
The results of these two valuations were used to future minimum lease commitments give an indication of the magnitude of the lease liability to be recognised on adoption.
Note that the future minimum lease allocate the upfront sum between the licence royalty revenue and proceeds on disposal.
A change in the allocation of the commitments disclosed at note 24 include undiscounted payments up to the date of the Groups first available termination option.
The lease term under IFRS 16 proceeds would result in a higher or lower gain on disposal and a corresponding decrease or increase in the recognition of will include further terms under which the Group has the option to continue to use the asset if it is reasonably certain at the inception of the lease that the licence revenue over the term of the licence.
Refer to note 6 for further details.
Group will exercise that option.
142 143 143 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies of the Group are: a Revenue Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates of transactions with customers.
Wholesale sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, with provisions made for expected returns and allowances.
Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return levels.
Royalties receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, which is typically on the basis of sales or production volumes.
b Segment reporting As required by IFRS 8 Operating segments, the segmental information presented in the financial statements is reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance, has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Group has centralised activities for designing, making and sourcing, which ensure a global product offering is sold through retail and wholesale channels worldwide.
Resource allocation and performance is assessed across the whole of the retail wholesale channel globally.
Hence the retail wholesale channel has been determined to be an operating segment.
Licensed products are manufactured and sold by third-party licensees.
As a result, this channel is assessed discretely by the Chief Operating Decision Maker and has been determined to be an operating segment.
The Group presents an analysis of its revenue by channel, by product division and by geographical destination.
c Business combinations The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Contingent payments are remeasured at fair value through the Income Statement.
All transaction costs are expensed to the Income Statement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.
Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity, and are initially measured either at fair value or at a value equal to the non-controlling interests share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
The choice of the basis of measurement is an accounting policy choice for each individual business combination.
The excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement.
d Share schemes The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation schemes, under which services are received from employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
The cost of the share-based incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
Appropriate option pricing models, including Black-Scholes, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made.
The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date.
The grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date.
The cost of the share-based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding increase in equity.
When options are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held in an Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trust, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme.
The proceeds received from the exercises, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium accounts.
144 144 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued The principal accounting policies of the Group are: e Leases The Group is both a lessor and lessee of property, plant and equipment.
Determining whether an arrangement is or contains a lease a Revenue is based on the substance of the arrangement.
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less asset are transferred to the lessee by the lessor are classified as finance leases.
Leases which are not finance leases are classified as returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
Wholesale sales are recognised when Gross rental expenditure income in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, with provisions made for expected returns and leases.
Certain rental expenses are determined on the basis of revenue achieved in specific retail locations and are accrued for allowances.
Royalties receivable on that basis.
from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, which is typically on the basis of sales or production volumes.
Amounts paid to received from the landlord to acquire or transfer the rights to a lease are treated as prepayments deferred income.
Lease incentives, typically rent-free periods and capital contributions, are held on the Balance Sheet in deferred income b Segment reporting and non-financial accruals and recognised over the term of the lease.
As required by IFRS 8 Operating segments, the segmental information presented in the financial statements is reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is f Dividend distributions responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance, has been identified as the Board of Directors.
Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividend becomes a committed obligation.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are The Group has centralised activities for designing, making and sourcing, which ensure a global product offering is sold through retail recognised when paid.
g Pension costs Eligible employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held in an Licensed products are manufactured and sold by third-party licensees.
As a result, this channel is assessed discretely by the Chief independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating employees is recognised in the Income Operating Decision Maker and has been determined to be an operating segment.
Statement as they fall due and comprises the amount of contributions to the schemes.
h Intangible assets Goodwill c Business combinations Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest, over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisition is recorded as an intangible asset.
Fair values are attributed to the The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are also made to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful life.
Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events or changes in are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.
Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity, and are initially measured either at fair circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not reversed in future periods.
value or at a value equal to the non-controlling interests share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
The excess of the cost of acquisition together Trademarks, licences and other intangible assets with the value of any non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the The cost of securing and renewing trademarks and licences, and the cost of acquiring other intangible assets, such as key money, is capitalised at purchase price and amortised by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits are expected to accrue, Income Statement.
typically ten years for trademarks, or the term of the lease or licence.
The useful life of trademarks and other intangible assets is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement and the nature of the asset.
d Share schemes The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation schemes, under which services are received from Computer software employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
Appropriate option The cost of acquiring computer software including licences and separately identifiable development costs is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for its intended use.
Software costs are pricing models, including Black-Scholes, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made.
The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance conditions is not considered in amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which may be up to seven years.
determining the fair value on the date of grant.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised i Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of assets in the course of construction, is stated at cost or deemed cost, based at each balance sheet date.
on historical revalued amounts prior to the adoption of IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and transferred to completed In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date.
assets when substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
144 145 145 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued i Property, plant and equipment continued Depreciation Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years Leaseholds Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease Short life leasehold improvements Leasehold improvements Up to 10 years Plant and machinery Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 15 years Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Office fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 7 years Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets represent the difference between the net proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional.
j Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, for which an impairment has been previously recognised are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at each reporting date.
k Investment properties Investment properties are freehold properties held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation.
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Cost includes the original purchase price plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Investment properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over an estimated useful life of up to 50 years.
l Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Discontinued operations are presented on the Income Statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continued use, and a sale within the next 12 months is considered to be highly probable.
Assets classified as held for sale cease to be depreciated and they are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
m Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost consists of all costs of purchase, costs of conversion, design costs and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
The cost of inventories is determined using a first-in, first-out FIFO method, taking account of the fashion seasons for which the inventory was offered.
Where necessary, provision is made to reduce cost to no more than net realisable value having regard to the nature and condition of inventory, as well as its anticipated utilisation and saleability.
n Taxation Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
146 146 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued i Property, plant and equipment continued n Taxation continued Depreciation Deferred tax is recognised, using the liabilities method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the assets in liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the temporary difference arises from equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years Leaseholds Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Short life leasehold improvements Leasehold improvements Up to 10 years Plant and machinery Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 15 years Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Office fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 7 years foreseeable future.
Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets represent the difference between the net taxable entities or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
o Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable j Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated based on the present value of subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value is calculated using forward market interest rates as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks specific to the future obligation.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows Property obligations cash generating units.
Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, for which an impairment has been previously recognised are A provision for the present value of future property reinstatement costs is recognised where there is an obligation to return the reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at each reporting date.
leased property to its original condition at the end of an operating lease.
Where a leased property is no longer expected to be fully occupied or where the costs exceed the future expected benefits, an onerous lease provision will be recognised for that portion of k Investment properties the lease in excess to the Groups requirements and not fully recovered through sub-leasing, or through value-in-use.
Investment properties are freehold properties held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price Restructuring costs plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Investment properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over an estimated Provisions for costs associated with restructuring programmes are recognised when a detailed formal restructuring plan has been useful life of up to 50 years.
Examples of  costs include employee termination payments, contract termination penalties and onerous contract payments.
l Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical p Share capital area of operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in Discontinued operations are presented on the Income Statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any transaction rather than through continued use, and a sale within the next 12 months is considered to be highly probable.
Assets directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are classified as held for sale cease to be depreciated and they are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of m Inventories the Company.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
q Financial instruments A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the contractual Where necessary, provision is made to reduce cost to no more than net realisable value having regard to the nature and condition of inventory, as well as its anticipated utilisation and saleability.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is n Taxation discharged, cancelled or expires.
Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method except for derivatives which are held at fair value and which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for hedge The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes accounting.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost mostly approximate their carrying amount due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Where the fair value of any financial asset or liability held at amortised cost items which are never taxable or deductible.
is materially different to the book value, the fair value is disclosed.
146 147 147 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued The Group classifies its instruments in the following categories: Fair value measurement 2 Financial instrument category Note Classification Measurement hierarchy Cash and cash equivalents 19 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A Trade and other receivables 16 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A Trade and other payables 20 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A Borrowings 22 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A Deferred consideration 20 Other financial liabilities Fair value through profit and loss 2 3 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts 18 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 Equity swap contracts 18 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 1.
Cash flow hedge and net investment hedge accounting is applied to the extent it is achievable.
The fair value measurement hierarchy is only applicable for financial instruments measured at fair value.
The measurements for financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised into different levels in the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs to the valuation technique used.
The different levels are defined as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: includes unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Observable inputs are those which are developed using market data, such as publicly available information about actual events or transactions.
The Group has an established framework with respect to measurement of fair values, including Level 3 fair values.
The Group regularly reviews any significant inputs which are not derived from observable market data and considers, where available, relevant third-party information, to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of IFRS.
The classification level in the fair value hierarchy is also considered periodically.
Significant valuation issues are reported to the Audit Committee.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and market rates and, in the case of forward foreign exchange contracts, after discounting using the appropriate yield curve as at the balance sheet date.
All Level 2 fair value measurements are calculated using inputs which are based on observable market data.
The fair value of the fixed payment component of deferred consideration is considered to be a Level 2 measurement and is derived using a present value calculation of the remaining fixed payments, discounted using an appropriate risk-free rate.
The fair value of the contingent payment component of deferred consideration is considered to be a Level 3 measurement and is derived using a present value calculation, incorporating observable and non-observable inputs.
This valuation technique has been adopted as it most closely mirrors the contractual arrangement.
The Groups primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: Cash and cash equivalents On the Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits with a maturity date of three months or less, held with banks and liquidity funds.
In the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are recorded under current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
148 148 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued q Financial instruments continued The Group classifies its instruments in the following categories: Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance Fair value sheet date.
Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest measurement rate method.
2 Financial instrument category Note Classification Measurement hierarchy Cash and cash equivalents 19 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A Borrowings including overdrafts Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at Trade and other receivables 16 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A Trade and other payables 20 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified as current Borrowings 22 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A Deferred consideration 20 Other financial liabilities Fair value through profit and loss 2 3 liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance 1 sheet date.
Forward foreign exchange contracts 18 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 Equity swap contracts 18 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 Deferred consideration Deferred consideration is initially recognised at the present value of the expected future payments.
at fair value at each reporting period with the change in fair value relating to changes in expected future payments recorded in the 2.
Income Statement as an operating expense or income.
Changes in fair value relating to unwinding of discounting to present value are recorded as a financing expense.
The different levels are defined as follows: Derivative instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the trading transactions.
The principal derivative instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly measurement date.
probable cash flows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases.
The Group also may designate forward foreign exchange contracts or foreign currency borrowings as a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries.
When hedge accounting is applied, the Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Level 3: includes unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of Group regularly reviews any significant inputs which are not derived from observable market data and considers, where available, recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature relevant third-party information, to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of IFRS.
The classification of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets and level in the fair value hierarchy is also considered periodically.
liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : 3 hedges of net investment of the assets of overseas subsidiaries net investment hedges : or 4 classified as held for trading.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and market rates and, in the case of forward foreign exchange contracts, after discounting using the appropriate yield curve as at the Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement balance sheet date.
immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The fair value of The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is deferred in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately in the the contingent payment component of deferred consideration is considered to be a Level 3 measurement and is derived using a present value calculation, incorporating observable and non-observable inputs.
This valuation technique has been adopted as it Income Statement.
Amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are recycled through the Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item affects the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer most closely mirrors the contractual arrangement.
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
When a forecast transaction is no The Groups primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Income Statement within net exchange gain loss on derivatives held for trading.
If a derivative instrument is not designated as a hedge, Cash and cash equivalents On the Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits with a maturity date of three months or the subsequent change to the fair value is recognised in the Income Statement within operating expenses or interest depending upon the nature of the instrument.
less, held with banks and liquidity funds.
Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations through derivative instruments or foreign currency borrowings, the Trade and other receivables gains or losses on the effective portion of the change in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as a hedge of a net investment, or the gains or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive income and are Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest reclassified to the Income Statement when the foreign operation that is hedged is disposed of.
rate method, less provision for impairment.
The amount of r Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
148 149 149 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued r Foreign currency translation continued Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies within each entity in the Group are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date closing rate.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise, except where these exchange differences form part of a net investment in overseas subsidiaries of the Group, in which case such differences are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Translation of the results of overseas businesses The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into the Groups presentation currency of Sterling each month at the weighted average exchange rate for the month according to the phasing of the Groups trading results.
The weighted average exchange rate is used, as it is considered to approximate the actual exchange rates on the date of the transactions.
The assets and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at the closing rates.
Differences arising on the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiary companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average rate Closing rate Year to Year to As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Euro 1.13 1.19 1.14 1.17 US Dollar 1.33 1.30 1.40 1.25 Chinese Yuan Renminbi 8.79 8.73 8.83 8.62 Hong Kong Dollar 10.37 10.11 11.01 9.74 Korean Won 1,473 1,487 1,489 1,402 s Adjusted profit before taxation In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business, the Groups results include a presentation of Adjusted operating profit and Adjusted profit before taxation adjusted PBT.
Adjusted PBT is defined as profit before taxation and before adjusting items.
Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be excluded in order to provide a consistent and comparable view of the performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Generally, this will include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature as well as income or expenses relating to acquisitions or disposals of businesses or other transactions of a similar nature, including the impact of changes in fair value of expected future payments or receipts relating to these transactions.
Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis each year and a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements.
Adjusting items and their related tax impacts, as well as adjusting taxation items, are added back to deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive at adjusted earnings per share.
Refer to note 7 for further details of adjusting items.
Segmental analysis The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Board reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports used by the Board.
The Board considers the Groups business through its two channels to market, being retail wholesale and licensing.
Retail wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets and digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts.
The flow of global product between retail and wholesale channels and across our regions is monitored and optimised at a corporate level and implemented via the Groups inventory hubs situated in Asia, Europe and the USA.
Licensing revenues are generated through the receipt of royalties from global licensees of beauty, eyewear, timepieces, and from licences relating to the use of non-Burberry trademarks in Japan.
The Board assesses channel performance based on a measure of adjusted operating profit.
This measurement basis excludes the effects of adjusting items.
The measure of earnings for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board includes an allocation of corporate and central costs.
Interest income and charges are not included in the result for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board.
150 150 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Segmental analysis continued r Foreign currency translation continued Transactions in foreign currencies Retail Wholesale Licensing Total Transactions denominated in foreign currencies within each entity in the Group are translated into the functional currency at the Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date closing rate.
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise, except where m m m m m m these exchange differences form part of a net investment in overseas subsidiaries of the Group, in which case such differences are Retail 2,176.3 2,127.2 2,176.3 2,127.2 taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Wholesale 526.4 613.9 526.4 613.9 Licensing 31.9 27.1 31.9 27.1 Translation of the results of overseas businesses Total segment revenue 2,702.7 2,741.1 31.9 27.1 2,734.6 2,768.2 1 The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into the Groups presentation currency of Sterling each month at the weighted Inter-segment revenue 1.8 2.2 1.8 2.2 average exchange rate for the month according to the phasing of the Groups trading results.
The weighted average exchange rate is Revenue from external customers 2,702.7 2,741.1 30.1 24.9 2,732.8 2,766.0 used, as it is considered to approximate the actual exchange rates on the date of the transactions.
The assets and liabilities of such 2 undertakings are translated at the closing rates.
Differences arising on the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiary Depreciation and amortisation 124.0 144.0 124.0 144.0 3 companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Net impairment of intangible assets 7.1 7.1 Net impairment of property, plant and Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign equipment 10.7 15.9 10.7 15.9 operation and translated at the closing rate.
Other non-cash items: Share-based payments 17.1 13.1 17.1 13.1 The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Adjusted operating profit 440.7 437.0 25.9 21.7 466.6 458.7 4 Average rate Closing rate Adjusting items 58.3 67.6 Year to Year to As at As at Finance income 7.8 5.5 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Finance expense 3.5 1.8 2018 2017 2018 2017 Profit before taxation 412.6 394.8 Euro 1.13 1.19 1.14 1.17 US Dollar 1.33 1.30 1.40 1.25 1.
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated Chinese Yuan Renminbi 8.79 8.73 8.83 8.62 third parties.
Depreciation of 6.5m relating to the Groups cost-efficiency programme and 0.2m for assets disposed as part of the disposal of Beauty operations, Korean Won 1,473 1,487 1,489 1,402 and 0.6m of amortisation for assets disposed as part of the disposal of Beauty operations are presented as adjusting items and excluded from the segmental analysis for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Amortisation of 7.5m relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset is presented s Adjusted profit before taxation as an adjusting item and excluded from the segmental analysis for the year ended 31 March 2017.
In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business, the Groups results 3.
Impairment of 6.5m relating to Saudi Arabia goodwill is presented as an adjusting item and excluded from the segmental analysis for the year ended include a presentation of Adjusted operating profit and Adjusted profit before taxation adjusted PBT.
Adjusted PBT is defined as 31 March 2018.
Impairment of 18.6m relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset and impairment of 7.3m of software assets profit before taxation and before adjusting items.
Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be specifically relating to the disposal of the Beauty operations are presented as adjusting items and excluded from the segmental analysis for the year excluded in order to provide a consistent and comparable view of the performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Generally, ended 31 March 2017. this will include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature as well as income or expenses relating to acquisitions or 4.
Refer to note 7 for details of adjusting items.
disposals of businesses or other transactions of a similar nature, including the impact of changes in fair value of expected future payments or receipts relating to these transactions.
Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis each year Retail Wholesale Licensing Total and a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements.
Adjusting items and their related tax Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to impacts, as well as adjusting taxation items, are added back to deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March at adjusted earnings per share.
Segmental analysis Additions to non-current assets 107.8 112.1 107.8 112.1 The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors.
Management has determined the operating segments based on Total segment assets 1,087.6 1,332.5 9.5 3.6 1,097.1 1,336.1 the reports used by the Board.
The Board considers the Groups business through its two channels to market, being retail wholesale Goodwill 88.4 99.6 and licensing.
Cash and cash equivalents 915.3 843.5 Taxation 122.2 134.2 Retail wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets and Total assets per Balance Sheet 2,223.0 2,413.4 digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts.
150 151 151 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.
EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa.
Entity-wide disclosures Revenue derived from external customers in the UK totalled 305.1m for the year to 31 March 2018 2017: 300.9m.
Revenue derived from external customers in foreign countries totalled 2,427.7m for the year to 31 March 2018 2017: 2,465.1m.
This amount includes 538.0m of external revenues derived from customers in the USA 2017: 576.6m and 443.5m of external revenues derived from customers in China 2017: 413.7m.
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is 151.0m 2017: 147.6m.
The remaining 372.1m of non-current assets are located in other countries 2017: 456.2m, with 130.0m located in the USA 2017: 159.6m, 66.1m located in China 2017: 76.7m, and 62.8m located in Korea 2017: 72.4m.
Net operating expenses Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Note m m Selling and distribution costs 861.9 913.5 Administrative expenses 568.9 560.9 Adjusting operating items 7 56.3 64.4 Net operating expenses 1,487.1 1,538.8 152 152 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 3.
Profit before taxation Additional revenue analysis Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note m m Revenue by product division m m Adjusted profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : Accessories 1,046.5 1,033.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Womens 808.4 791.9 Within cost of sales 0.8 1.6 Mens 647.3 623.5 Within selling and distribution costs 88.2 107.4 1 Childrens Other 116.8 108.1 Within administrative expenses 10.1 12.3 Beauty 83.7 184.4 Amortisation of intangible assets Retail Wholesale 2,702.7 2,741.1 Within selling and distribution costs 0.8 1.0 2 Licensing 30.1 24.9 Within administrative expenses 24.1 21.7 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2.7 3.5 Total 2,732.8 2,766.0 3 Impairment of intangible assets 13 7.1 Net impairment of property, plant and equipment 14 10.7 15.9 4 Employee costs 27 500.3 484.7 Year to Year to Operating lease rentals 31 March 31 March 5 Minimum lease payments 246.2 239.0 2018 2017 Contingent rents 110.1 108.6 Revenue by destination m m Net exchange loss gain on revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities 7.3 12.2 Asia Pacific 1,089.0 1,069.0 1 Net exchange loss on derivatives held for trading for the year 3.7 0.2 975.2 991.2 EMEIA Trade receivables net impairment charge 3.1 2.4 Americas 638.5 680.9 Retail Wholesale 2,702.7 2,741.1 Adjusting items Licensing 30.1 24.9 Adjusting operating items Total 2,732.8 2,766.0 Gain on disposal of Beauty operations 6 5.2 Costs relating to disposal of Beauty operations 7 5.0 14.5 1.
Charge relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 7 26.1 Restructuring costs 7 54.5 20.8 Entity-wide disclosures Goodwill impairment 7 6.5 Revenue derived from external customers in the UK totalled 305.1m for the year to 31 March 2018 2017: 300.9m.
Revaluation of deferred consideration liability 7 4.5 3.0 Total adjusting operating items 56.3 64.4 Revenue derived from external customers in foreign countries totalled 2,427.7m for the year to 31 March 2018 2017: 2,465.1m.
This Adjusting financing items amount includes 538.0m of external revenues derived from customers in the USA 2017: 576.6m and 443.5m of external revenues Finance charge on deferred consideration liability 7 2.0 2.2 derived from customers in China 2017: 413.7m.
Put option liability finance charge 7 1.0 Total adjusting financing items 2.0 3.2 The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is 151.0m 2017: 147.6m.
The remaining 372.1m of non-current assets are located in other countries 2017: 456.2m, with 130.0m located in the USA 2017: 1.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment within administrative expenses for the year ended 31 March 2018 has been presented excluding 159.6m, 66.1m located in China 2017: 76.7m, and 62.8m located in Korea 2017: 72.4m.
depreciation of 6.5m relating to the Groups cost-efficiency programme and depreciation of 0.2m for assets disposed as part of the disposal of Beauty operations, which have been presented as adjusting items refer to note 7.
Amortisation of intangible assets within administrative expenses for the year ended 31 March 2018 has been presented excluding amortisation of Year to Year to 0.6m included in costs relating to the disposal of Beauty operations, which has been presented as an adjusting item.
Amortisation of intangible assets 31 March 31 March within administrative expenses for the year ended 31 March 2017 has been presented excluding amortisation of 7.5m relating to the fragrance and 2018 2017 beauty licence intangible, which has been presented as an adjusting item refer to note 7.
Impairment of intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2018 is presented excluding an impairment of 6.5m relating to goodwill allocated to the Selling and distribution costs 861.9 913.5 Saudi Arabia cash generating unit, which has been presented as an adjusting item refer to note 7.
Impairment of intangible assets for the year ended Administrative expenses 568.9 560.9 31 March 2017 is presented excluding an impairment of 18.6m relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible and an impairment of 7.3m of software assets specifically relating to the disposal of the Beauty operations, which have been presented as adjusting items refer to note 7.
Employee costs for the year ended 31 March 2018 are presented excluding 14.9m 2017: 9.7m of costs arising as a result of the cost-efficiency Net operating expenses 1,487.1 1,538.8 programme, which have been presented as an adjusting item refer to note 7.
Minimum lease payments include charges for onerous lease provisions during the year ended 31 March 2018 of 7.2m 2017: 7.9m and do not include payments of 4.8m 2017: 8.3m where existing onerous lease provisions have been utilised.
Minimum lease payments for the year ended 31 March 2018 have been presented excluding charges of 29.1m for onerous property obligations in connection with the Groups cost-efficiency programme, which have been presented as adjusting items refer to note 7.
152 153 153 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Gain on disposal of Beauty operations On 3 April 2017, the Group entered into two agreements with Coty Geneva SARL Versoix Coty to grant Coty a licence to sell its fragrance and beauty products and to transfer the Groups Beauty operations to Coty.
Under the agreement to transfer the Beauty operations, the Group transferred inventory and property, plant and equipment relating to the Beauty operations to Coty.
The assets transferred to Coty were paid for by cash proceeds of 33.3m, with the exception of some of the inventory which will be paid for in the future if it is used by Coty.
A debtor of 4.1m has been recognised for contingent consideration in relation to the estimated future proceeds arising from the disposal of inventory to Coty.
The licence agreement, which is for a term of up to 15 years, allows Coty to manufacture and sell Burberry Beauty products.
Under the licence agreement Coty will pay the Group royalties based on the value of products sold.
The Group received an upfront payment of 130.0m for the licence and related disposal of the Beauty operations under the two agreements.
The directors have carried out an allocation and have attributed 30.0m of this upfront payment to the disposal of the Beauty operations refer to note 1.
As a result, the total consideration for the disposal of the Beauty operations is 67.4m.
The remaining 100.0m of the payment has been attributed to the licence and has been recognised as deferred royalty income on the balance sheet refer to note 20.
It will be recognised as royalty revenue over the term of the licence.
The agreements with Coty completed on 2 October 2017.
Details of the sale are as follows: Year to 31 March 2018 m Consideration received or receivable Cash proceeds 63.3 Fair value of contingent consideration 4.1 Total disposal consideration 67.4 Carrying amount of net assets disposed 37.4 Directly attributable costs 24.8 Gain on disposal before taxation 5.2 The carrying amount of net assets disposed is presented net of a 10.1m write-down of Beauty inventory remeasured to the lower of the carrying value and net realisable value upon classification as held for sale at 30 September 2017.
Directly attributable costs relate to the write-down of inventory and provisions for the costs of certain contract terminations and employee redundancy.
2.2m of these costs were paid in the period, with the remaining 12.5m to be recognised in future periods.
The net gain on disposal is presented as an adjusting item in accordance with the Groups accounting policy as it arises from the disposal of a business.
A related tax charge of 1.0m has been recognised in the year ended 31 March 2018.
Adjusting items Costs relating to the disposal of the Beauty operations In addition to the costs arising directly from the disposal of the Beauty operations, costs of 5.0m relating to the Beauty transaction were incurred in the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: 14.5m.
Costs incurred in the year ended 31 March 2017 related to the writeoff of software assets specifically relating to the Beauty operations of 7.3m: a provision for the termination of a distributor agreement: and other ancillary charges incurred.
Costs incurred in the year ended 31 March 2018 relate to retention payments, advisory fees, and depreciation and amortisation on assets no longer required as a result of the disposal.
11.3m of these costs were paid in the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: nil.
These costs are presented as an adjusting item in accordance with the Groups accounting policy as they arise in relation to the disposal of a business.
A related tax credit of 1.0m has also been recognised in the period 2017: 2.9m.
Charge relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence, following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA.
This asset was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
During the six months ended 30 September 2016, amortisation expense of 7.5m was recognised in relation to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible.
At 30 September 2016, management carried out an impairment assessment of the carrying value of this asset based on a value-in-use calculation using latest estimates for cost and revenue projections.
As a result of a reduction in projected revenue over the remaining life to 31 December 2017, compared to previous estimates, management concluded that the book value of the asset was not supported by its value-in-use.
An impairment charge of 18.6m was recognised at 30 September 2016, to write the remaining balance of the intangible asset down to nil.
154 154 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Gain on disposal of Beauty operations 7.
Adjusting items continued On 3 April 2017, the Group entered into two agreements with Coty Geneva SARL Versoix Coty to grant Coty a licence to sell its These charges have been presented as an adjusting item, which is consistent with the treatment of the cost recognised on fragrance and beauty products and to transfer the Groups Beauty operations to Coty.
termination of the licence relationship in the year ended 31 March 2013.
A related tax credit of 5.1m was also recognised in the year ended 31 March 2017.
The assets transferred to Coty were paid for by cash proceeds of 33.3m, with the exception of Restructuring costs some of the inventory which will be paid for in the future if it is used by Coty.
A debtor of 4.1m has been recognised for contingent Restructuring costs of 54.5m 2017: 20.8m were incurred in the current period, arising as a result of the Groups cost-efficiency consideration in relation to the estimated future proceeds arising from the disposal of inventory to Coty.
These costs are presented as an adjusting item as they are considered material and one-off in nature, being part of a restructuring programme running from May 2016 to March 2019.
The most significant elements of the The licence agreement, which is for a term of up to 15 years, allows Coty to manufacture and sell Burberry Beauty products.
Under restructuring costs relate to onerous lease obligations for property, redundancies and consultancy costs supporting organisational the licence agreement Coty will pay the Group royalties based on the value of products sold.
design and development of strategic growth and productivity initiatives, with the remainder relating to legal advice and project assurance.
A related tax credit of 11.4m 2017: 4.2m has also been recognised in the current period.
The directors have carried out an allocation and have attributed 30.0m of this upfront payment to the disposal of the Goodwill impairment Beauty operations refer to note 1.
A charge of 6.5m 2017: nil was recorded in the period to fully impair goodwill allocated to the Saudi Arabia cash generating unit, following a significant and prolonged downturn in the Saudi Arabian economy.
The charge has been presented as an adjusting item in The remaining 100.0m of the payment has been attributed to the licence and has been recognised as deferred royalty income on accordance with the Groups accounting policy, as it is one-off in nature, and relates to the acquisition of a business.
No tax was the balance sheet refer to note 20.
recognised on this item, as the value is not considered to be deductible for tax purposes.
Details of the sale are as follows: Items relating to the deferred consideration liability On 22 April 2016, the Group entered into an agreement to transfer the economic right to the non-controlling interest in Burberry Year to Middle East LLC to the Group in consideration of contingent payments to be made to the minority shareholder based on an agreed 31 March percentage of future revenue, together with fixed payments to be paid over the period to 2023.
The present value of the fixed and 2018 contingent deferred consideration in total, at the date of the transaction, was estimated to be AED 236.0m 44.6m.
m Consideration received or receivable A credit of 4.5m in relation to the revaluation of this balance has been recognised in operating expenses for the year ended Cash proceeds 63.3 31 March 2018 2017: charge of 3.0m.
A financing charge of 2.0m in relation to the unwinding of the discount on the nonFair value of contingent consideration 4.1 current portion of the deferred consideration liability has also been recognised for the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: 2.2m.
Total disposal consideration 67.4 These movements are unrealised.
No tax has been recognised on either of these items, as the future payments are not considered Carrying amount of net assets disposed 37.4 to be deductible for tax purposes.
These items are presented as adjusting items in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, Directly attributable costs 24.8 as they arise from changes in the value of the liability for expected future payments relating to the purchase of a non-controlling interest in the Group.
Gain on disposal before taxation 5.2 Put option liability finance charge The carrying amount of net assets disposed is presented net of a 10.1m write-down of Beauty inventory remeasured to the lower of The financing charge of 1.0m for the year ended 31 March 2017 relates to fair value movements including the unwinding the carrying value and net realisable value upon classification as held for sale at 30 September 2017.
Directly attributable costs relate of the discount on the put option liability over the non-controlling interest in Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd. No tax was to the write-down of inventory and provisions for the costs of certain contract terminations and employee redundancy.
2.2m of recognised on this item, as the value of the option on exercise is not considered to be deductible for tax purposes.
This item has these costs were paid in the period, with the remaining 12.5m to be recognised in future periods.
The net gain on disposal is been presented as an adjusting item in accordance with the Groups accounting policy as it arises from changes in the value of the presented as an adjusting item in accordance with the Groups accounting policy as it arises from the disposal of a business.
liability for expected future payments relating to the purchase of a non-controlling interest in the Group.
The liability was released A related tax charge of 1.0m has been recognised in the year ended 31 March 2018. upon expiration of the put option on 1 August 2016, therefore there is no charge for the year ended 31 March 2018.
Adjusting items An adjusting taxation charge of 12.2m has also been recognised for the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: nil.
Refer to note 10 for Costs relating to the disposal of the Beauty operations further details.
In addition to the costs arising directly from the disposal of the Beauty operations, costs of 5.0m relating to the Beauty transaction were incurred in the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: 14.5m.
Costs incurred in the year ended 31 March 2017 related to the write- 8.
Auditor remuneration off of software assets specifically relating to the Beauty operations of 7.3m: a provision for the termination of a distributor Fees incurred during the year in relation to audit and non-audit services are analysed below: agreement: and other ancillary charges incurred.
11.3m of these costs Year to Year to were paid in the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: nil.
These costs are presented as an adjusting item in accordance with the 31 March 31 March Groups accounting policy as they arise in relation to the disposal of a business.
A related tax credit of 1.0m has also been 2018 2017 recognised in the period 2017: 2.9m.
m m Audit services in respect of the financial statements of the Company and consolidation 0.4 0.4 Charge relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset Audit services in respect of the financial statements of subsidiary companies 1.9 1.8 During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and Services relating to taxation advisory services 0.2 wholesale channels rather than under licence, following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA.
Other non-audit-related services 0.5 0.2 This asset was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
Total 2.9 2.7 During the six months ended 30 September 2016, amortisation expense of 7.5m was recognised in relation to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible.
154 155 155 Notes to the Financial Statements 9. Financing Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Note m m Bank interest income 7.2 5.0 Other finance income 0.6 0.5 Finance income 7.8 5.5 Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 1.3 1.0 Bank charges 0.7 0.7 Other finance expense 1.5 0.1 Finance expense 3.5 1.8 Finance charge on deferred consideration liability 7 2.0 2.2 Put option liability finance charge 7 1.0 Other financing charge 2.0 3.2 Net finance income 2.3 0.5 10.
Taxation Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Current tax UK corporation tax Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2018 at 19% 2017: 20% 45.0 48.2 Double taxation relief 3.2 0.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.2 3.3 46.0 44.1 Foreign tax Current tax on income for the year 73.1 45.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5.8 6.3 Total current tax 113.3 83.1 Deferred tax UK deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4.3 0.2 Impact of changes to tax rates 0.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.4 0.4 4.7 0.2 Foreign deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12.2 19.7 Impact of changes to tax rates 12.6 0.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.6 4.3 Total deferred tax 5.7 24.0 Total tax charge on profit 119.0 107.1 156 156 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 9. Financing 10.
Taxation continued Year to Year to Analysis of charge for the year recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity: 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Year to Year to Note m m 31 March 31 March Bank interest income 7.2 5.0 2018 2017 m m Other finance income 0.6 0.5 Finance income 7.8 5.5 Current tax Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 1.3 1.0 Recognised in other comprehensive income Current tax credit charge on exchange differences on loans foreign currency translation reserve 3.6 5.4 Bank charges 0.7 0.7 Other finance expense 1.5 0.1 Current tax credit charge on cash flow hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 0.3 1.9 Current tax credit on cash flow hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 1.6 Finance expense 3.5 1.8 Current tax charge credit on net investment hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 0.5 0.6 Finance charge on deferred consideration liability 7 2.0 2.2 Total current tax recognised in other comprehensive income 5.0 6.7 Put option liability finance charge 7 1.0 Other financing charge 2.0 3.2 Recognised in equity Net finance income 2.3 0.5 Current tax credit on share options retained earnings 0.8 0.4 Total current tax recognised directly in equity 0.8 0.4 10.
Taxation Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement: Deferred tax Recognised in other comprehensive income Year to Year to Deferred tax credit on cash flow hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 0.9 31 March 31 March Deferred tax charge on net investment hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 0.1 2018 2017 Deferred tax credit on net investment hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 0.1 m m Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income 0.1 0.8 Current tax UK corporation tax Recognised in equity Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2018 at 19% 2017: 20% 45.0 48.2 Double taxation relief 3.2 0.8 Deferred tax charge credit on share options retained earnings 0.9 0.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.2 3.3 Total deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.9 0.5 46.0 44.1 Foreign tax The tax rate applicable on profit varied from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK due to the following factors: Current tax on income for the year 73.1 45.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5.8 6.3 Year to Year to Total current tax 113.3 83.1 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Deferred tax m m Profit before taxation 412.6 394.8 UK deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4.3 0.2 Tax at 19% 2017: 20% on profit before taxation 78.4 79.0 Impact of changes to tax rates 0.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.4 0.4 Rate adjustments relating to overseas profits 10.7 14.1 Permanent differences 4.2 5.7 4.7 0.2 Foreign deferred tax Tax on dividends not creditable 10.1 6.1 Current year tax losses not recognised 1.9 5.5 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12.2 19.7 Impact of changes to tax rates 12.6 0.2 Prior year tax losses no longer recognised 1.7 1.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.6 5.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.6 4.3 Adjustments to deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 12.6 0.6 Total deferred tax 5.7 24.0 Total tax charge on profit 119.0 107.1 Total taxation charge 119.0 107.1 Total taxation recognised in the Group Income Statement arises on the following items: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Tax on adjusted profit before taxation 118.2 119.3 Tax on adjusting items 11.4 12.2 Adjusting taxation charge 12.2 Total taxation charge 119.0 107.1 Adjusting taxation charge relates to a net adjustment to deferred taxes, reflecting the reduced US federal income tax rate.
156 157 157 Notes to the Financial Statements 11.
Earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share based on adjusted profit before taxation are also disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m 1 Attributable profit for the year before adjusting items 352.6 342.2 1 Effect of adjusting items after taxation 59.1 55.4 Attributable profit for the year 293.5 286.8 1.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average number of Burberry Group plc ordinary shares in issue throughout the year, excluding ordinary shares held in the Groups ESOP trusts.
Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition, account is taken of any options and awards made under the employee share incentive schemes, which will have a dilutive effect when exercised.
Refer to note 27 for additional information on the terms and conditions of the employee share incentive schemes.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Millions Millions Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 425.7 439.1 Dilutive effect of the employee share incentive schemes 3.7 3.1 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 429.4 442.2 12.
Dividends paid to owners of the Company Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Prior year final dividend paid 28.4p per share 2017: 26.8p 123.0 118.6 Interim dividend paid 11.0p per share 2017: 10.5p 46.4 45.8 Total 169.4 164.4 A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2018 of 30.3p 2017: 28.4p per share, amounting to 125.3m, has been proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The final dividend to Burberry Group plc shareholders has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on 3 August 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 June 2018.
158 158 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 11.
Intangible assets The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company for the year divided by Trademarks, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share based on adjusted licences and Intangible profit before taxation are also disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
other assets in the intangible Computer course of 1 1 1 Year to Year to Goodwill assets software construction Total 31 March 31 March Cost m m m m m 2018 2017 As at 31 March 2016 88.8 87.9 133.7 23.0 333.4 m m Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 10.8 0.6 3.7 15.1 1 Attributable profit for the year before adjusting items 352.6 342.2 Additions 0.3 14.9 18.9 34.1 1 Effect of adjusting items after taxation 59.1 55.4 Disposals 7.5 1.5 9.0 Attributable profit for the year 293.5 286.8 Reclassifications from assets in the course of construction 20.1 20.1 As at 31 March 2017 99.6 88.8 164.9 20.3 373.6 1.
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.7 2.4 0.1 7.2 Additions 0.3 8.1 40.4 48.8 The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average number of Burberry Group plc ordinary shares in issue throughout the year, excluding ordinary shares held in the Groups ESOP trusts.
Disposals 70.9 54.5 125.4 Reclassifications from assets in the course Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition, account of construction 14.1 14.1 is taken of any options and awards made under the employee share incentive schemes, which will have a dilutive effect when As at 31 March 2018 94.9 18.2 130.2 46.5 289.8 exercised.
Accumulated amortisation and impairment Year to Year to As at 31 March 2016 53.2 90.6 143.8 31 March 31 March Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.4 2.7 3.1 2018 2017 Charge for the year 8.4 21.8 30.2 Millions Millions Disposals 6.6 6.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 425.7 439.1 Impairment charge on assets 18.6 14.4 33.0 Dilutive effect of the employee share incentive schemes 3.7 3.1 As at 31 March 2017 80.6 122.9 203.5 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 429.4 442.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 2.0 2.1 Charge for the year 0.8 24.7 25.5 12.
Impairment of goodwill of 6.5m in the year ended 31 March 2018 is included in adjusting items refer to note 7.
During the year ended 31 March 2017 A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2018 of 30.3p 2017: 28.4p per share, amounting to 125.3m, has been proposed 14.4m of software assets were impaired, of which 7.3m related to the disposal of the Beauty operations and is included in adjusting items refer to for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The final dividend to note 7.
During the year ended 31 March 2017 an impairment charge of 18.6m was recognised relating to the Beauty intangible asset refer to note 7.
Burberry Group plc shareholders has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on 3 August 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 June 2018.
Impairment testing of goodwill The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to cash generating units: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m China 47.8 48.9 Korea 27.7 29.4 Other 12.9 21.3 Total 88.4 99.6 158 159 159 Notes to the Financial Statements 13.
Intangible assets continued The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or where there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
Value-in-use calculations for each cash generating unit are based on projected pre-tax discounted cash flows together with a discounted terminal value.
The cash flows have been discounted at pre-tax rates reflecting the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
Where the cash generating unit has a non-controlling interest which was recognised at a value equal to its proportionate interest in the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the acquisition date, the carrying amount of the goodwill has been grossed up, to include the goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest, for the purpose of impairment testing the goodwill attributable to the cash generating unit.
The key assumptions contained in the value-in-use calculations include the future revenues, the margins achieved, the assumed life of the business and the discount rates applied.
The value-in-use calculations have been prepared using managements approved financial plans for the five years ending 31 March 2023.
These plans contain managements best view of the expected performance for the year ending 31 March 2019 and the expected growth rates for the years thereafter.
The plans are based on the performance achieved in the current year and managements knowledge of the market environment and future business plans.
A terminal value has been included in the value-inuse calculation based on the cash flows for the year ending 31 March 2023 incorporating the assumption that there is no growth beyond 31 March 2023.
For the material goodwill balances of China and Korea, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use calculations by assuming no growth beyond the year ending 31 March 2019.
This sensitivity analysis indicated significant headroom between the recoverable amount under this scenario and the carrying value of goodwill and therefore management considered no further detailed sensitivity analysis was required.
The pre-tax discount rates for China and Korea were 15.9% and 13.4% respectively 2017: 16.7%: 14.0%.
During the year, revenue in the Saudi Arabia cash generating unit has declined following a significant and prolonged downturn in the Saudi Arabian economy.
Recovery to previous trading levels is not expected to occur in the short term.
The recoverable amount of the net assets was determined by an impairment test of the value-in-use of the cash generating unit.
Following this impairment test, the goodwill relating to the Saudi Arabia cash generating unit has been written off in full.
This has given rise to a charge of 6.5m for the year ended 31 March 2018.
The charge is presented in operating profit as an adjusting item.
The remaining net assets in the Saudi Arabia cash generating unit are 4.1m at 31 March 2018, excluding cash and cash equivalents.
The value of these net assets is expected to be recovered through value-in-use.
The other goodwill balance of 12.9m 2017: 21.3m consists of amounts relating to seven cash generating units, none of which have goodwill balances individually exceeding 6.0m as at 31 March 2018.
No impairment has been recognised in respect of the carrying value of the remaining goodwill balances in the year, as the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying value for each of the other cash generating units.
160 160 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 13.
Property, plant and equipment The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or where there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable Fixtures, Assets in the amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
Value-in-use calculations for each cash generating Freehold land Leasehold fittings and course of 1 unit are based on projected pre-tax discounted cash flows together with a discounted terminal value.
The cash flows have been and buildings improvements equipment construction Total discounted at pre-tax rates reflecting the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
Cost m m m m m Where the cash generating unit has a non-controlling interest which was recognised at a value equal to its proportionate interest in As at 31 March 2016 159.0 418.3 491.5 9.4 1,078.2 the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the acquisition date, the carrying amount of the goodwill has been grossed Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 18.4 47.5 43.7 1.0 110.6 up, to include the goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest, for the purpose of impairment testing the goodwill Additions 0.4 37.4 27.0 13.2 78.0 attributable to the cash generating unit.
The key assumptions contained in the value-in-use calculations include the future Disposals 29.2 32.4 28.5 0.4 90.5 revenues, the margins achieved, the assumed life of the business and the discount rates applied.
Reclassifications from assets in the course of construction 4.0 4.7 8.7 The value-in-use calculations have been prepared using managements approved financial plans for the five years ending As at 31 March 2017 148.6 474.8 538.4 14.5 1,176.3 31 March 2023.
These plans contain managements best view of the expected performance for the year ending 31 March 2019 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 12.8 29.7 24.7 0.8 68.0 and the expected growth rates for the years thereafter.
The plans are based on the performance achieved in the current year and Additions 0.3 25.3 18.7 14.7 59.0 managements knowledge of the market environment and future business plans.
A terminal value has been included in the value-inDisposals 11.5 41.8 53.3 use calculation based on the cash flows for the year ending 31 March 2023 incorporating the assumption that there is no growth Disposal of a business 7.4 0.6 8.0 beyond 31 March 2023.
Reclassifications from assets in the course of construction 0.2 3.2 5.5 8.9 For the material goodwill balances of China and Korea, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use calculations by As at 31 March 2018 136.3 462.1 488.7 18.9 1,106.0 assuming no growth beyond the year ending 31 March 2019.
This sensitivity analysis indicated significant headroom between the recoverable amount under this scenario and the carrying value of goodwill and therefore management considered no further Accumulated depreciation and impairment detailed sensitivity analysis was required.
Charge for the year 4.3 52.3 64.7 121.3 Disposals 21.3 32.0 27.6 80.9 During the year, revenue in the Saudi Arabia cash generating unit has declined following a significant and prolonged downturn in the Net impairment charge on assets 0.6 8.1 7.2 15.9 Saudi Arabian economy.
The recoverable amount of As at 31 March 2017 46.9 290.3 439.5 776.7 the net assets was determined by an impairment test of the value-in-use of the cash generating unit.
Following this impairment test, Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.6 19.5 20.7 44.8 the goodwill relating to the Saudi Arabia cash generating unit has been written off in full.
This has given rise to a charge of 6.5m for Charge for the year 3.9 53.1 48.8 105.8 the year ended 31 March 2018.
The remaining net assets in the Saudi Disposals 11.1 41.2 52.3 Arabia cash generating unit are 4.1m at 31 March 2018, excluding cash and cash equivalents.
The value of these net assets is Disposal of a business 3.7 3.7 expected to be recovered through value-in-use.
Net impairment charge on assets 3.6 7.1 10.7 As at 31 March 2018 46.2 316.4 429.8 792.4 The other goodwill balance of 12.9m 2017: 21.3m consists of amounts relating to seven cash generating units, none of which have goodwill balances individually exceeding 6.0m as at 31 March 2018.
Net book value As at 31 March 2018 90.1 145.7 58.9 18.9 313.6 No impairment has been recognised in respect of the carrying value of the remaining goodwill balances in the year, as the As at 31 March 2017 101.7 184.5 98.9 14.5 399.6 recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying value for each of the other cash generating units.
Included in fixtures, fittings and equipment are finance lease assets with a net book value of 1.1m 2017: 1.3m.
During the year to 31 March 2018, a net charge of 16.8m 2017: 23.0m was recorded within net operating expenses as a result of the annual review of impairment of retail store assets.
A charge of 9.6m 2017: 15.3m was recognised against property, plant and equipment, and 7.2m 2017: 7.7m was charged in relation to onerous lease provisions.
Where indicators of impairment were identified, the impairment review compared the value-in-use of the cash generating units to the carrying values at 31 March 2018.
The pre-tax cash flow projections were based on financial plans of expected revenues and costs for each retail cash generating unit, as approved by management, and extrapolated beyond the budget year to the lease exit dates using growth rates and inflation rates appropriate to each stores location.
The pre-tax discount rates used in these calculations were between 10.7% and 21.5% 2017: between 11.4% and 21.6%, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
Where the value-in-use was less than the carrying value of the cash generating unit, an impairment of property, plant and equipment was recorded.
Where the value-in-use was negative, onerous lease provisions were assessed in relation to the future contracted minimum lease payments.
Potential alternative uses for property, such as subletting of leasehold or sale of freehold, were considered in estimating both the value for impairment charges and onerous lease provisions.
160 161 161 Notes to the Financial Statements 14.
Property, plant and equipment continued Management has considered the potential impact of changes in assumptions on the total recorded as a result of the review for impairment of retail store assets and consideration of onerous lease provisions.
The most significant estimate is the future level of revenues achieved by the retail stores.
It is estimated that, for the stores subject to an impairment or onerous lease provision in the year, a 5% decrease increase in revenue assumptions for the year ending 31 March 2019, with no change to subsequent forecast revenue growth rate assumptions, would result in an 9.4m increase 8.0m decrease in the charge in the year ended 31 March 2018.
The impairment charge recorded in property, plant and equipment relates to 23 retail cash generating units 2017: 33 retail cash generating units for which the total recoverable amount at the balance sheet date is 4.5m 2017: 22.0m.
Impairment charges of 1.1m 2017: 0.6m arose relating to other assets in the year.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, and to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are shown in the table below: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax assets 115.5 125.0 Deferred tax liabilities 4.2 0.4 Net amount 111.3 124.6 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 The movement in the deferred tax account is as follows: m m As at 1 April 124.6 133.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.8 13.5 Charged to the Income Statement 5.7 24.0 Credited to other comprehensive income 0.1 0.8 Charged credited to equity 0.9 0.5 As at 31 March 111.3 124.6 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Deferred tax liabilities Unrealised inventory profit and other Capital inventory Derivative allowances provisions instruments Other Total m m m m m As at 31 March 2016 2.8 0.9 1.1 1.0 4.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.5 Charged credited to the Income Statement 0.6 0.1 4.3 4.8 As at 31 March 2017 3.7 1.1 1.1 5.6 9.3 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Credited to the Income Statement 1.6 0.8 2.4 Credited to other comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 As at 31 March 2018 2.0 1.8 0.9 5.4 6.5 162 162 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 14.
Property, plant and equipment continued 15.
Deferred taxation continued Management has considered the potential impact of changes in assumptions on the total recorded as a result of the review for Deferred tax assets impairment of retail store assets and consideration of onerous lease provisions.
The most significant estimate is the future level of Unrealised revenues achieved by the retail stores.
It is estimated that, for the stores subject to an impairment or onerous lease provision in the inventory profit year, a 5% decrease increase in revenue assumptions for the year ending 31 March 2019, with no change to subsequent forecast and other Unused revenue growth rate assumptions, would result in an 9.4m increase 8.0m decrease in the charge in the year ended 31 March 2018.
Capital inventory Share Derivative tax 1 allowances provisions schemes instruments losses Other Total The impairment charge recorded in property, plant and equipment relates to 23 retail cash generating units 2017: 33 retail cash m m m m m m m generating units for which the total recoverable amount at the balance sheet date is 4.5m 2017: 22.0m.
As at 31 March 2016 11.5 46.9 9.3 0.7 6.9 63.9 137.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 7.5 0.6 6.4 14.0 Impairment charges of 1.1m 2017: 0.6m arose relating to other assets in the year.
Credited charged to the Income Statement 3.2 4.4 1.4 2.1 14.5 19.2 Credited to other comprehensive income 0.8 0.8 15.
Deferred taxation Credited to equity 0.5 0.5 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax As at 31 March 2017 14.2 50.0 8.4 0.1 5.4 55.8 133.9 liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, and to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are shown in the Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.4 3.9 0.1 0.2 3.8 7.0 table below: Credited charged to the Income Statement 0.1 9.1 0.5 1.7 2.1 8.1 Charged to other comprehensive income 0.1 0.1 As at As at Charged to equity 0.9 0.9 31 March 31 March As at 31 March 2018 14.7 37.0 8.1 3.9 54.1 117.8 2018 2017 m m 1.
Deferred tax balances within the Other category in the analysis above include temporary differences arising on property provisions of 9.0m Deferred tax assets 115.5 125.0 2017: 9.1m, accrued intercompany expenses of 23.6m 2017: 20.2m and other provisions and accruals of 21.5m 2017: 26.5m.
Deferred tax liabilities 4.2 0.4 Net amount 111.3 124.6 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of 76.5m 2017: 79.8m in respect of losses and temporary timing differences amounting to 285.3m 2017: 272.2m that can be set off against future taxable income.
There is a time Year to Year to limit for the recovery of 30.4m of these potential assets 2017: 37.0m which ranges from one to ten years 2017: two to ten years.
31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Included within other temporary differences above is a deferred tax liability of 4.0m 2017: 5.0m relating to unremitted overseas The movement in the deferred tax account is as follows: m m earnings.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where the Group As at 1 April 124.6 133.8 is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future, or Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.8 13.5 where no liability would arise on the remittance.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences in respect of unremitted earnings is Charged to the Income Statement 5.7 24.0 170m 2017: 300m.
Credited to other comprehensive income 0.1 0.8 Charged credited to equity 0.9 0.5 16.
Trade and other receivables As at 31 March 111.3 124.6 As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: m m Non-current Deferred tax liabilities Deposits and other financial receivables 42.4 44.9 Other non-financial receivables 2.9 3.7 Unrealised inventory profit Prepayments 23.9 27.8 and other Total non-current trade and other receivables 69.2 76.4 Capital inventory Derivative Current allowances provisions instruments Other Total Trade receivables 128.6 201.3 m m m m m Provision for doubtful debts 11.6 9.5 As at 31 March 2016 2.8 0.9 1.1 1.0 4.0 Net trade receivables 117.0 191.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.5 Other financial receivables 22.5 22.3 Charged credited to the Income Statement 0.6 0.1 4.3 4.8 Other non-financial receivables 17.4 20.4 As at 31 March 2017 3.7 1.1 1.1 5.6 9.3 Prepayments 40.3 38.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Accrued income 9.1 3.0 Credited to the Income Statement 1.6 0.8 2.4 Total current trade and other receivables 206.3 275.6 Credited to other comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 Total trade and other receivables 275.5 352.0 As at 31 March 2018 2.0 1.8 0.9 5.4 6.5 Included in total trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of 84.5m 2017: 90.0m.
162 163 163 Notes to the Financial Statements 16.
Trade and other receivables continued The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their payment due dates or where uncertainty exists over recoverability.
As at 31 March 2018, trade receivables of 19.8m 2017: 17.2m were impaired.
The amount of the provision against these receivables was 11.6m as at 31 March 2018 2017: 9.5m.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of the impaired trade receivables is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Current 0.2 Less than 1 month overdue 7.0 7.0 1 to 3 months overdue 3.3 2.3 Over 3 months overdue 9.3 7.9 19.8 17.2 As at 31 March 2018, trade receivables of 9.0m 2017: 20.9m were overdue but not impaired.
The ageing of these overdue receivables is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Less than 1 month overdue 4.1 8.4 1 to 3 months overdue 2.5 12.1 Over 3 months overdue 2.4 0.4 9.0 20.9 Movement in the provision for doubtful debts is as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m As at 1 April 9.5 7.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 0.2 Increase in provision for doubtful debts 3.1 2.4 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 0.9 0.3 As at 31 March 11.6 9.5 As at 31 March 2018 there were 1.4m of impaired receivables within other receivables 2017: 1.6m.
The carrying amounts of the Groups non-derivative financial assets excluding cash and cash equivalents by customer geographical location are: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Asia Pacific 107.6 120.4 EMEIA 60.5 78.1 Americas 22.9 63.5 191.0 262.0 164 164 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 16.
Trade and other receivables continued 17.
Inventories The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their payment due dates or where As at As at uncertainty exists over recoverability.
The amount of 31 March 31 March the provision against these receivables was 11.6m as at 31 March 2018 2017: 9.5m.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables 2018 2017 is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of the impaired trade receivables is as follows: m m Raw materials 9.2 32.7 As at As at Work in progress 0.6 1.8 31 March 31 March Finished goods 402.0 470.8 2018 2017 Total inventories 411.8 505.3 m m Current 0.2 Less than 1 month overdue 7.0 7.0 As at As at 1 to 3 months overdue 3.3 2.3 31 March 31 March Over 3 months overdue 9.3 7.9 2018 2017 19.8 17.2 m m Total inventories, gross 503.1 596.8 As at 31 March 2018, trade receivables of 9.0m 2017: 20.9m were overdue but not impaired.
The ageing of these overdue Provisions 91.3 91.5 receivables is as follows: Total inventories, net 411.8 505.3 As at As at The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 800.0m 2017: 795.9m.
31 March 31 March 2018 2017 The net movement in inventory provisions included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2018 was a cost of 35.3m 2017: m m 21.1m.
The reversal of inventory provisions as at 31 March 2017 during the current year was not significant.
Included in the change in Less than 1 month overdue 4.1 8.4 inventory provisions for the year ended 31 March 2018 is 12.9m relating to the disposal of Beauty inventory to Coty.
Refer to note 6 1 to 3 months overdue 2.5 12.1 for further details.
Over 3 months overdue 2.4 0.4 9.0 20.9 The cost of finished goods physically destroyed in the year was 28.6m 2017: 26.9m, including 10.4m of destruction for Beauty inventory.
Movement in the provision for doubtful debts is as follows: 18.
Derivative financial instruments Master netting arrangements Year to Year to 31 March 31 March The Groups forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts are entered into under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master netting arrangements.
In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each 2018 2017 m m counterparty on a single day in respect of all transactions outstanding in the same currency are aggregated into a single amount that is payable by one party to the other.
In certain circumstances, such as when a default occurs, all outstanding transactions under the As at 1 April 9.5 7.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 0.2 agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable in settlement of all transactions.
The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the Balance Sheet as the Groups right to offset is enforceable only on Increase in provision for doubtful debts 3.1 2.4 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 0.9 0.3 the occurrence of future events such as default.
The Groups Balance Sheet would not be materially different if it had offset its forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts subject to these ISDA agreements.
As at 31 March 11.6 9.5 Derivative financial assets As at 31 March 2018 there were 1.4m of impaired receivables within other receivables 2017: 1.6m.
As at As at 31 March 31 March The carrying amounts of the Groups non-derivative financial assets excluding cash and cash equivalents by customer geographical 2018 2017 location are: m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 3.2 As at As at Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge of net investment 0.5 31 March 31 March 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 0.4 0.3 2018 2017 Equity swap contracts held for trading 1.5 2.1 m m Total position 1.9 6.1 Asia Pacific 107.6 120.4 Comprising: EMEIA 60.5 78.1 Americas 22.9 63.5 Total non-current position 0.3 1.1 Total current position 1.6 5.0 191.0 262.0 164 165 165 Notes to the Financial Statements 18.
Derivative financial instruments continued Derivative financial liabilities As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 2.8 0.6 Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge of net investment 0.4 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 1.0 2.5 Equity swap contracts held for trading 0.1 Total position 3.9 3.5 Comprising: Total non-current position 0.1 Total current position 3.8 3.5 Net derivative financial instruments The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange and equity swap contracts at year end are: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Cash flow hedges 211.2 129.1 Hedge of net investment 18.1 74.7 1 Held for trading 289.3 122.6 Equity swap contracts 5.6 5.9 1.
Forward foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading are used for cash management purposes.
At 31 March 2018, all such contracts had maturities of no greater than three months from the balance sheet date.
Contractual maturities of derivatives used for hedging The gross inflows outflows disclosed in the table below represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to derivative financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes.
They are usually not closed out prior to the contractual maturity.
The foreign currency cash flows shown are based on spot rates at the balance sheet date.
Contractual maturities Carrying Contractual 1 to 6 6 to 12 amount cash flows months months m m m m As at 31 March 2018 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow 229.3 108.5 120.8 Inflow 225.2 106.0 119.2 2.8 4.1 2.5 1.6 As at 31 March 2017 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow 204.1 120.4 83.7 Inflow 206.1 123.2 82.9 2.7 2.0 2.8 0.8 The contractual maturity profile of non-current financial liabilities is shown in note 26.
For further details of cash flow hedging and net investment hedging refer to note 26 Market risk.
166 166 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 18.
Cash and cash equivalents Derivative financial liabilities As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 195.6 268.7 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 2.8 0.6 Short-term deposits 719.7 574.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge of net investment 0.4 Total 915.3 843.5 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 1.0 2.5 Equity swap contracts held for trading 0.1 20.
Trade and other payables Total position 3.9 3.5 As at As at Comprising: 31 March 31 March Total non-current position 0.1 2018 2017 Total current position 3.8 3.5 m m Non-current Net derivative financial instruments Other payables 2.2 2.5 1 The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange and equity swap contracts at year end are: Deferred income and non-financial accruals 149.4 75.6 3 Deferred consideration 16.5 23.8 As at As at Total non-current trade and other payables 168.1 101.9 31 March 31 March Current 2018 2017 Trade payables 153.2 172.3 m m Other taxes and social security costs 73.3 58.7 2,3 Cash flow hedges 211.2 129.1 Other payables 4.1 8.2 Hedge of net investment 18.1 74.7 Accruals 190.2 186.9 1 1 Held for trading 289.3 122.6 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 27.4 22.1 3 Equity swap contracts 5.6 5.9 Deferred consideration 12.7 10.9 Total current trade and other payables 460.9 459.1 1.
At 31 March 2018, all such contracts had Total trade and other payables 629.0 561.0 maturities of no greater than three months from the balance sheet date.
Includes 96.7m 2017: nil relating to deferred income for the beauty licence granted during the year.
90.2m is included in non-current and 6.5m is Contractual maturities of derivatives used for hedging included in current.
The gross inflows outflows disclosed in the table below represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to derivative 2.
Includes nil 2017: 3.3m relating to the cost of shares not yet purchased under an agreement entered in to by the Company to purchase its own financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes.
shares, together with anticipated stamp duty arising.
Refer to note 23 for further details.
Liabilities relating to financing activities include the cost of shares not yet purchased noted above and deferred consideration.
The change in the share liability arises as a result of a financing cash outflow.
The change in the deferred consideration liability arises as result of a financing cash Contractual maturities outflow and non-cash movements.
Carrying Contractual 1 to 6 6 to 12 amount cash flows months months Included in total trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of 250.1m 2017: 156.5m.
m m m m As at 31 March 2018 Deferred consideration Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Following the purchase of the economic right to the non-controlling interest in Burberry Middle East LLC on 22 April 2016, the Group Outflow 229.3 108.5 120.8 has recognised a liability in relation to the deferred consideration for this transaction.
The deferred consideration consists of fixed Inflow 225.2 106.0 119.2 payments to be paid over the period 2016 to 2019, and contingent payments calculated as an agreed percentage of the future 2.8 4.1 2.5 1.6 revenue of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries, over the period 2016 to 2023.
Payments of 3.0m were made in the year As at 31 March 2017 ended 31 March 2018 2017: 15.1m.
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow 204.1 120.4 83.7 The fair value of the deferred consideration relating to the fixed payments has been derived via a present value calculation of the Inflow 206.1 123.2 82.9 remaining fixed payments, discounted at an appropriate risk-free rate applicable to Burberry Middle East LLC.
2.7 2.0 2.8 0.8 The fair value of the deferred consideration relating to the contingent payments has been estimated using a present value The contractual maturity profile of non-current financial liabilities is shown in note 26.
For further details of cash flow hedging and calculation, incorporating observable and non-observable inputs.
The inputs applied in arriving at the value of this component of the deferred consideration are an estimate of the future revenue of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries from the current net investment hedging refer to note 26 Market risk.
period to 2023 and an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate for Burberry Middle East LLC.
The carrying value of the deferred consideration relating to contingent payments is dependent on assumptions applied in determining these inputs, and is subject to change in the event that there is a change in any of these assumptions.
The valuation is updated at every reporting period or more often if a significant change to any input is observed.
A 10% increase decrease in the estimate of future revenues of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries would result in a 1.6m increase decrease in the carrying value of the deferred consideration relating to contingent payments at 31 March 2018 and a corresponding 1.6m decrease increase in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2018.
166 167 167 Notes to the Financial Statements 21.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Property Other obligations costs Total m m m Balance as at 31 March 2016 51.8 4.2 56.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.2 0.1 6.3 Created during the year 18.8 6.9 25.7 Discount unwind 0.1 0.1 Utilised during the year 11.1 1.0 12.1 Released during the year 8.1 2.5 10.6 Balance as at 31 March 2017 57.7 7.7 65.4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.6 0.1 4.5 Created during the year 39.7 15.2 54.9 Discount unwind 0.3 0.3 Utilised during the year 6.0 3.5 9.5 Released during the year 0.4 2.7 3.1 Balance as at 31 March 2018 86.7 16.8 103.5 Within property obligations are amounts of 59.0m 2017: 30.3m relating to onerous lease obligations.
Refer to note 14 for details relating to impairment of assets and onerous lease provisions for retail cash generating units.
The net charge in the year for onerous lease obligations is 36.3m 2017: 7.9m.
This includes amounts of 7.2m 2017: 7.7m relating to retail stores refer to note 14 and a charge of 29.1m 2017: charge of 0.2m relating to other properties.
As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Analysis of total provisions: Non-current 71.4 47.3 Current 32.1 18.1 Total 103.5 65.4 The non-current provisions relate to provisions for onerous leases and property reinstatement costs which are expected to be utilised within 18 years 2017: 19 years.
Bank overdrafts Included within bank overdrafts is 22.2m 2017: 31.3m representing balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group.
The Group has a number of committed and uncommitted arrangements agreed with third parties.
At 31 March 2018, the Group held bank overdrafts of 1.0m 2017: 3.0m excluding balances on cash pooling arrangements.
On 25 November 2014, the Group entered into a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks.
At 31 March 2018, there were nil outstanding drawings 2017: nil.
The facility matures in November 2021.
The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within this facility and has been in compliance throughout the financial year.
The fair value of overdrafts approximate the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Share capital and reserves Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2017: 0.05p each As at 31 March 2016 445,037,254 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 135,811 As at 31 March 2017 445,173,065 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 266,139 Cancellation of treasury shares 27,164,081 As at 31 March 2018 418,275,123 0.2 168 168 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 21.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 23.
Share capital and reserves continued Property Other The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum of 10% obligations costs Total of its issued share capital.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Company entered into agreements to purchase 350m of its m m m own shares back, excluding stamp duty, as part of a share buy-back programme 2017: 100m.
Own shares purchased by the Company, as part of a share buy-back programme, are classified as treasury shares and their cost offset against retained earnings.
Balance as at 31 March 2016 51.8 4.2 56.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.2 0.1 6.3 When treasury shares are cancelled, a transfer is made from retained earnings to capital redemption reserve, equivalent to the nominal value of the shares purchased and subsequently cancelled.
In the year ended 31 March 2018, 27.2m treasury shares with a Created during the year 18.8 6.9 25.7 Discount unwind 0.1 0.1 nominal value of 14,000 were cancelled 2017: nil.
The cost of shares purchased by ESOP trusts are offset against retained earnings, as the amounts paid reduce the profits available for distribution by the Company.
Utilised during the year 11.1 1.0 12.1 Released during the year 8.1 2.5 10.6 As at 31 March 2018 the amount held as treasury shares by the Company and offset against retained earnings is nil 2017: 97.2m Balance as at 31 March 2017 57.7 7.7 65.4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.6 0.1 4.5 including stamp duty of nil 2017: 0.5m.
As at 31 March 2018 the Company held nil treasury shares 2017: 6.7m, with a market value of nil 2017: 116.1m.
There was nil 2017: 3.3m, relating to the cost of shares not yet purchased under the current share buyCreated during the year 39.7 15.2 54.9 Discount unwind 0.3 0.3 back agreement, charged to retained earnings in the period.
The payment obligation at 31 March 2017 was recognised in other Utilised during the year 6.0 3.5 9.5 payables refer to note 20.
Released during the year 0.4 2.7 3.1 Balance as at 31 March 2018 86.7 16.8 103.5 As at 31 March 2018 the amount of own shares held by ESOP trusts and offset against retained earnings is 40.5m 2017: 44.7m.
As at 31 March 2018, the ESOP trusts held 2.9m shares 2017: 3.5m in the Company, with a market value of 49.8m 2017: 59.6m.
In the year to 31 March 2018 the ESOP trusts and the Company have waived their entitlement to dividends of 2.0m 2017: 1.7m.
Within property obligations are amounts of 59.0m 2017: 30.3m relating to onerous lease obligations.
During the year profits of nil 2017: nil have been transferred to capital reserves due to statutory requirements of subsidiaries.
The capital reserve consists of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising on the purchase of own shares.
Other reserves in the Statement of Changes in Equity consists of the capital reserve, the foreign currency translation reserve, and the hedging reserves.
The hedging reserves consist of the cash flow hedge reserve and the net investment hedge reserve.
As at As at 31 March 31 March Hedging reserves 2018 2017 Foreign m m Net currency Analysis of total provisions: Capital Cash flow investment translation Non-current 71.4 47.3 reserve hedges hedge reserve Total Current 32.1 18.1 m m m m m Total 103.5 65.4 Balance as at 31 March 2016 41.1 4.2 3.9 164.9 214.1 Other comprehensive income: The non-current provisions relate to provisions for onerous leases and property reinstatement costs which are expected to be Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 8.7 8.7 utilised within 18 years 2017: 19 years.
Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 4.0 4.0 Net investment hedges losses deferred in equity 2.3 2.3 22.
Bank overdrafts Foreign currency translation differences 101.3 101.3 Included within bank overdrafts is 22.2m 2017: 31.3m representing balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group.
Tax on other comprehensive income 1.0 0.5 5.4 5.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 3.7 1.8 95.9 97.8 The Group has a number of committed and uncommitted arrangements agreed with third parties.
At 31 March 2018, the Group held Balance as at 31 March 2017 41.1 7.9 2.1 260.8 311.9 bank overdrafts of 1.0m 2017: 3.0m excluding balances on cash pooling arrangements.
Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges losses deferred in equity 1.5 1.5 On 25 November 2014, the Group entered into a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks.
At Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 8.5 8.5 31 March 2018, there were nil outstanding drawings 2017: nil.
The Group is in compliance Net investment hedges gains deferred in equity 2.3 2.3 with the financial and other covenants within this facility and has been in compliance throughout the financial year.
Foreign currency translation differences 49.7 49.7 Tax on other comprehensive income 1.9 0.4 3.6 5.1 The fair value of overdrafts approximate the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Share capital and reserves Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2017: 0.05p each As at 31 March 2016 445,037,254 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 135,811 As at 31 March 2017 445,173,065 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 266,139 Cancellation of treasury shares 27,164,081 As at 31 March 2018 418,275,123 0.2 168 169 169 Notes to the Financial Statements 24.
Financial commitments The Group leases various retail stores, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group has commitments relating to future minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Amounts falling due: Within 1 year 206.8 221.9 Between 2 and 5 years 445.6 524.0 After 5 years 148.0 163.6 Total 800.4 909.5 The commitments above are future minimum lease payments for periods up to the date of the Groups first available termination option.
The financial commitments for operating lease amounts calculated as a percentage of revenue revenue leases have been based on the minimum payment that is required under the terms of the relevant lease excluding any contingent payments.
Under certain revenue-based leases, there are no minimums and therefore no financial commitment is included in the table above.
As a result, the amounts charged to the Income Statement may be materially higher than the financial commitment at the prior year end.
The total of future minimum payments to be received under non-cancellable leases on investment properties and subleases on land and buildings is as follows: Leases Subleases As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Amounts falling due: Within 1 year 0.8 0.8 2.4 2.4 Between 2 and 5 years 0.8 1.5 1.3 1.6 After 5 years 0.1 0.1 Total 1.7 2.3 3.7 4.1 25.
Capital commitments As at As at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Capital commitments contracted but not provided for: Property, plant and equipment 15.5 13.2 Intangible assets 4.9 3.2 Total 20.4 16.4 Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and future work in respect of major capital expenditure projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
170 170 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 24.
Financial risk management The Group leases various retail stores, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, cash and short-term deposits, overdrafts, trade and other The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group has commitments relating to future minimum lease receivables, and trade and other payables arising directly from operations.
payments under these non-cancellable operating leases as follows: The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks including foreign exchange risk, share price risk and As at As at interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk.
31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Risk management is carried out by the Group treasury department Group Treasury based on forecast business requirements to m reduce financial risk and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest in cash and cash m Amounts falling due: equivalents safely and profitably.
Group Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying business requirements.
The policies of Group Treasury are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
The Group uses Within 1 year 206.8 221.9 Between 2 and 5 years 445.6 524.0 derivative instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
After 5 years 148.0 163.6 Total 800.4 909.5 Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
The commitments above are future minimum lease payments for periods up to the date of the Groups first available termination option.
The financial commitments for operating lease amounts calculated as a percentage of revenue revenue leases have been The Groups Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency based on the minimum payment that is required under the terms of the relevant lease excluding any contingent payments.
Under fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign exchange certain revenue-based leases, there are no minimums and therefore no financial commitment is included in the table above.
As a contracts refer to note 18.
These transactions are recorded as cash flow hedges.
The Groups foreign currency transactions arise result, the amounts charged to the Income Statement may be materially higher than the financial commitment at the prior year end.
principally from purchases and sales of inventory.
The total of future minimum payments to be received under non-cancellable leases on investment properties and subleases on land The Groups treasury risk management policy is to hedge anticipated cash flows in each major foreign currency that qualify as highly and buildings is as follows: probable forecast transactions for hedge accounting purposes within the current or previous year.
Currently, the Group does not hedge intercompany foreign currency transactions.
Leases Subleases As at As at As at As at The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of overseas subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for reporting 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March purposes.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge net assets of overseas subsidiaries, relating to surplus cash 2018 2017 2018 2017 whose remittance is foreseeable.
The outstanding net investment hedges as at 31 March 2018 had a principal value of KRW nil nil m m m m and CNY 160m 18.1m, 2017: KRW 28.5bn 20.3m and CNY 471m 54.6m.
Amounts falling due: Within 1 year 0.8 0.8 2.4 2.4 At 31 March 2018, the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of Sterling strengthening weakening by 20% Between 2 and 5 years 0.8 1.5 1.3 1.6 2017: 20% against other currencies with all other variables held constant.
The effect on translating foreign currency denominated After 5 years 0.1 0.1 net cash, trade, intercompany and other financial receivables and payables and financial instruments at fair value through profit or Total 1.7 2.3 3.7 4.1 loss would have been to decrease increase operating profit for the year by 19.5m 2017: decrease increase 18.2m.
The effect on translating forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges would have been to decrease increase equity by 25.
Capital commitments 25.4m 2017: decrease increase 7.6m on a post-tax basis.
As at As at 31 March 31 March The following table shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the year end in currencies other than 2018 2017 the local currency of operation, after accounting for the effect of any specific forward foreign exchange contracts used to manage m m currency exposure.
Monetary assets and liabilities refer to cash, deposits, overdrafts and other amounts to be received or paid in Capital commitments contracted but not provided for: cash.
Amounts exclude intercompany balances which eliminate on consolidation.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of Property, plant and equipment 15.5 13.2 these assets and liabilities are recognised in Net operating expenses.
Intangible assets 4.9 3.2 Total 20.4 16.4 As at 31 March 2018 As at 31 March 2017 Monetary Monetary Monetary Monetary Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and future work in respect of major capital assets liabilities Net assets liabilities Net expenditure projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Financial risk management continued Market risk continued Share price risk The Group is exposed to employers national insurance liability due to the implementation of various employee share incentive schemes.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability due to movements in the Groups share price, the Group has a policy of entering into equity swaps at the time of granting share options and awards.
The Group does not seek hedge accounting treatment for equity swaps.
The Group monitors its exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability on an ongoing basis.
The net impact of an increase decrease in the share price of 50.0p 2017: 50.0p would have resulted in an increase decrease in profit after tax of nil 2017: nil.
Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to cash, short-term deposits and overdrafts.
The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 March 2018 are 23.2m 2017: 34.3m.
This includes cash pool overdraft balances of 22.2m 2017: 31.3m which are offset by cash balances for the purpose of interest calculations.
At 31 March 2018 the remaining overdrafts were 1.0m 2017: 3.0m and any change in interest rates would not significantly impact profit.
The floating rate financial assets as at 31 March 2018 comprise short-term deposits of 719.7m 2017: 574.8m, interest bearing current accounts of 71.6m 2017: 34.2m and cash pool asset balances of 27.0m 2017: 32.9m.
At 31 March 2018, if interest rates on floating rate financial assets had been 100 basis points higher lower 2017: 100 basis points, excluding the impact on cash pool asset balances and with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 5.4m 2017: 3.9m higher lower, as a result of higher lower interest income.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The trade receivables balance is spread across a large number of different customers with no single debtor representing more than 7% of the total balance due 2017: 7%.
The Group has policies in place to ensure that wholesale sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash or via major credit cards.
In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant and default rates have historically been very low.
An ageing of overdue receivables is included in note 16.
During the year ended 31 March 2013 the Group entered into a retail leasing arrangement in the Republic of Korea.
As part of this arrangement, a KRW 27bn 19.3m 15-year interest-free loan was provided to the landlord.
The Group holds a registered mortgage over the leased property for the equivalent value of the loan which acts as collateral.
At 31 March 2018, the discounted fair value of the loan is 13.6m 2017: 14.8m.
The book value of the loan, recorded at amortised cost, is 12.9m 2017: 13.3m.
Other than this arrangement, the Group does not hold any other collateral as security.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date with respect to trade and other receivables is approximated by the carrying amount on the Balance Sheet.
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short-term deposits and certain derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying value of these instruments.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution and only deposits funds with independently rated financial institutions with a minimum rating of A other than where required for operational purposes.
A total of 14.9m 2017: 13.4m was held with institutions with a rating below A at 31 March 2018.
These amounts are monitored on a weekly basis and regularly reported to the Board.
The Group has deposited CHF 0.3m 2017: CHF 0.3m and AED 0.3m 2017: AED 0.3m which is held as collateral at a number of European banks.
172 172 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Financial risk management continued Market risk continued Liquidity risk Share price risk The Groups financial risk management policy aims to ensure that sufficient cash is maintained to meet foreseeable needs and close The Group is exposed to employers national insurance liability due to the implementation of various employee share out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by incentive schemes.
keeping committed credit lines available.
For further details of this, refer to note 22.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability due to movements in the Groups share price, the All short-term trade and other payables, accruals, and bank overdrafts mature within one year or less.
The carrying value of all Group has a policy of entering into equity swaps at the time of granting share options and awards.
The Group does not seek hedge financial liabilities due in less than one year is equal to their contractual undiscounted cash flows.
accounting treatment for equity swaps.
The net impact of an increase decrease in the share price of 50.0p 2017: 50.0p would have resulted in an The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Groups non-current financial liabilities, excluding derivatives increase decrease in profit after tax of nil 2017: nil.
used for hedging, is as follows: Interest rate risk As at As at The Groups exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to cash, short-term deposits and overdrafts.
31 March 31 March 2018 2017 The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 March 2018 are 23.2m 2017: 34.3m.
This includes cash pool overdraft balances of 22.2m m m 2017: 31.3m which are offset by cash balances for the purpose of interest calculations.
At 31 March 2018 the remaining overdrafts In more than 1 year, but not more than 2 years 19.0 13.0 were 1.0m 2017: 3.0m and any change in interest rates would not significantly impact profit.
In more than 2 years, but not more than 3 years 12.1 8.7 In more than 3 years, but not more than 4 years 10.8 9.5 The floating rate financial assets as at 31 March 2018 comprise short-term deposits of 719.7m 2017: 574.8m, interest bearing In more than 4 years, but not more than 5 years 9.9 8.2 current accounts of 71.6m 2017: 34.2m and cash pool asset balances of 27.0m 2017: 32.9m.
At 31 March 2018, if interest rates In more than 5 years 18.8 19.6 on floating rate financial assets had been 100 basis points higher lower 2017: 100 basis points, excluding the impact on cash pool Total financial liabilities 70.6 59.0 asset balances and with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 5.4m 2017: 3.9m higher lower, as a result of higher lower interest income.
Other non-current financial liabilities relate to other payables and onerous lease provisions.
Credit risk Capital risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The trade receivables balance is spread across a large number of The Board reviews the Groups capital allocation policy annually.
Our capital allocation framework defines our priorities for uses of different customers with no single debtor representing more than 7% of the total balance due 2017: 7%.
The Group has policies in cash, underpinned by our principle to maintain a strong balance sheet with solid investment grade credit metrics.
The framework has place to ensure that wholesale sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Sales to retail customers are made in four priorities: cash or via major credit cards.
An ageing of overdue receivables is re-investment in the business to drive organic growth: included in note 16. maintaining a progressive dividend policy: continuing to pursue selective strategic investment: and During the year ended 31 March 2013 the Group entered into a retail leasing arrangement in the Republic of Korea.
As part of this to the extent that there is surplus capital to these needs, provide additional returns to shareholders.
arrangement, a KRW 27bn 19.3m 15-year interest-free loan was provided to the landlord.
At 31 March 2018, the discounted fair value of At 31 March 2018, the Group had net cash of 892.1m 2017: 809.2m and total equity excluding non-controlling interests of the loan is 13.6m 2017: 14.8m.
The Group has access to a facility of 300m which was undrawn at 31 March 2018.
For further details arrangement, the Group does not hold any other collateral as security.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date refer to note 22. with respect to trade and other receivables is approximated by the carrying amount on the Balance Sheet.
Having considered the future cash generation, growth, productivity and investment plans, taking into consideration the current With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short-term deposits and certain derivative challenging external environment and relevant financial parameters, the Group decided to continue the share buy-back programme instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty with a maximum exposure equal to the it began in May 2016.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Company entered into agreements to purchase 350m 2017: 100m carrying value of these instruments.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution and of its own shares back as part of the programme, of which 50m related to the programme announced during the year ended 31 only deposits funds with independently rated financial institutions with a minimum rating of A other than where required for March 2017.
At 31 March 2018 the Company had purchased 355.0m of its own shares including stamp duty 2017: 97.2m.
These details refer to note 23. amounts are monitored on a weekly basis and regularly reported to the Board.
172 173 173 Notes to the Financial Statements 27.
Employee costs Staff costs, including the cost of directors, incurred during the year are as shown below.
Directors remuneration, which is separately disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 121 and forms part of these financial statements, includes, for those share options and awards where performance obligations have been met, the notional gains arising on the future exercise but excludes the charge in respect of these share options and awards recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 418.1 408.3 1 Termination benefits 14.9 10.5 Social security costs 51.1 48.8 Share-based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 17.1 13.1 Other pension costs 14.0 13.7 Total 515.2 494.4 1.
Termination benefits include 14.9m 2017: 9.7m relating to restructuring costs, of which nil 2017: 1.6m relate to related parties.
Refer to note 7 and note 28 for further details.
The average number of full-time equivalent employees including executive directors during the year was as follows: Number of employees Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 1 EMEIA 5,114 5,062 Americas 1,852 1,954 Asia Pacific 2,786 2,812 Total 9,752 9,828 1.
Share options granted to directors and employees The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation schemes for its directors and employees.
Details of each of these schemes are set out in this note.
The share option schemes have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key inputs used in the Black-Scholes pricing model to determine the fair value include the share price at the commencement date: the exercise price attached to the option: the vesting period of the award: an appropriate risk-free interest rate: a dividend yield discount for those schemes that do not accrue dividends during the course of the vesting period: and an expected share price volatility, which is determined by calculating the historical annualised standard deviation of the market price of Burberry Group plc shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the vesting period of the option.
Where applicable, equity swaps have been entered into to cover future employers national insurance liability or overseas equivalent that may arise in respect of these schemes.
The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Plan 2014 the ESP The ESP was set up in the year ended 31 March 2015, to replace the previous two long-term incentive plans the Burberry CoInvestment Plan and the Restricted Share Plan.
The ESP aims to reward executives and senior management for sustainable long-term performance and successful execution of the Groups long-term strategy.
Under the ESP, participants are awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of four times base salary per annum.
Awards may be subject to a combination of non-market performance conditions, including compound annual Group adjusted PBT growth: compound annual Group revenue growth: and average retail wholesale adjusted return on invested capital ROIC.
Performance conditions will be measured over a three-year period from the last reporting period prior to the grant date.
Each performance condition will stipulate a threshold and maximum target.
The portion of the scheme relating to each performance target will vest 25% if the threshold target is met, and then on a straight-line basis up to 100% if the maximum target is met.
The portion of the scheme relating to each performance target for the Senior Leadership Team for awards made in the current year will vest 15% if the threshold target is met.
Dependent on the performance of the vesting conditions, 50% of the award will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date, and the remaining 50% of the award will vest on the fourth anniversary of the grant date.
174 174 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 27.
Employee costs continued Staff costs, including the cost of directors, incurred during the year are as shown below.
Directors remuneration, which is separately Awards made to the Senior Leadership Team are subject to all three non-market performance conditions and are measured 50% disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 121 and forms part of these financial statements, includes, for those based on annual adjusted PBT growth: 25% based on annual revenue growth: and 25% based on adjusted retail wholesale ROIC.
share options and awards where performance obligations have been met, the notional gains arising on the future exercise but excludes the charge in respect of these share options and awards recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Awards made to Senior Management in 2015 are subject to two non-market performance conditions and are measured 75% based on annual adjusted PBT growth and 25% based on annual revenue growth.
Awards made to Senior Management during the current Year to Year to and prior year are subject to two non-market performance conditions and will be measured 50% based on annual adjusted PBT 31 March 31 March growth and 50% based on annual revenue growth.
2018 2017 m m Awards made to Management will not be subject to performance conditions apart from continued service during the vesting period.
Wages and salaries 418.1 408.3 1 Termination benefits 14.9 10.5 During the year, the following grants were made under the ESP: Social security costs 51.1 48.8 Share-based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 17.1 13.1 Targets Other pension costs 14.0 13.7 Options Fair Total 515.2 494.4 Date of grant granted value Participant group Performance conditions Threshold Maximum 31 July 2017 1,167,881 17.11 Senior Leadership Team 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 2% 10% 3-year growth in Group revenue 1% 5.5% 1.
3-year average retail wholesale adjusted ROIC 16.2% 18.2% The average number of full-time equivalent employees including executive directors during the year was as follows: 31 July 2017 981,316 17.11 Senior Management 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 2% 10% 3-year growth in Group revenue 1% 5.5% Number of employees 31 July 2017 208,079 17.11 Management Continued service N A N A 27 November 2017 29,731 17.49 Senior Management 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 2% 10% Year to Year to 3-year growth in Group revenue 1% 5.5% 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 1 The annual ESP grant usually occurs in July, aligned with the timing of the Groups performance review process.
EMEIA 5,114 5,062 Americas 1,852 1,954 The fair values for the above grants have been determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used Asia Pacific 2,786 2,812 in determining the fair value were as follows: Total 9,752 9,828 31 July 2017 27 November 2017 1.
Share price at contract commencement date 17.11 17.49 Exercise price nil nil Share options granted to directors and employees Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Equivalent to vesting period The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation schemes for its directors and employees.
Details of Expected volatility 27.5% 28.1% each of these schemes are set out in this note.
The share option schemes have been valued using the Black-Scholes option Risk-free interest rate 0.32% 0.60% pricing model.
Obligations under this plan will be met either by market purchase shares via the ESOP trust or by the issue of ordinary shares of The key inputs used in the Black-Scholes pricing model to determine the fair value include the share price at the commencement date: the exercise price attached to the option: the vesting period of the award: an appropriate risk-free interest rate: a dividend the Company.
yield discount for those schemes that do not accrue dividends during the course of the vesting period: and an expected share price volatility, which is determined by calculating the historical annualised standard deviation of the market price of Burberry Group plc Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the vesting period of the option.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Where applicable, equity swaps have been entered into to cover future employers national insurance liability or overseas equivalent that may arise in respect of these schemes.
2018 2017 Outstanding at 1 April 5,104,256 3,238,480 The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Plan 2014 the ESP Granted during the year 2,387,007 2,570,913 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 1,354,118 701,016 The ESP was set up in the year ended 31 March 2015, to replace the previous two long-term incentive plans the Burberry CoInvestment Plan and the Restricted Share Plan.
The ESP aims to reward executives and senior management for sustainable long-term Exercised during the year 4,121 performance and successful execution of the Groups long-term strategy.
Outstanding at 31 March 6,137,145 5,104,256 Exercisable at 31 March Under the ESP, participants are awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of four times base salary per annum.
174 175 175 Notes to the Financial Statements 27.
Employee costs continued Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: Number of Number of awards as at awards as at 31 March 31 March Term of the award 2018 2017 22 July 2015 21 July 2025 2,085,889 2,497,624 18 November 2015 17 November 2025 102,294 102,294 30 January 2017 30 January 2027 1,912,579 2,504,338 31 July 2017 31 July 2027 2,006,652 27 November 2017 27 November 2027 29,731 Total 6,137,145 5,104,256 Exceptional, one-off awards The Company grants certain options in respect of ordinary shares as exceptional and one-off awards with a nil exercise price.
The awards vest in stages, which vary by award, and are dependent upon continued employment over the vesting period, as well as key strategic performance objectives linked to long-term growth of the Group for certain awards.
On 8 February 2018 options in respect of 279,412 ordinary shares were granted as two one-off awards.
The first award was for options in respect of 227,627 ordinary shares and was immediately exercisable.
The second award was for options in respect of 51,785 ordinary shares and will vest in the following manner: 33% vested immediately, 33% will vest on 23 October 2018, 17% will vest on 22 October 2019 and 17% will vest on 30 October 2020.
The fair value for the awards has been determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: First award Second award Share price at contract commencement date 15.44 15.44 Exercise price nil nil Equivalent to Equivalent to Life of award vesting period vesting period Expected volatility 0.0% 29.3% Risk-free interest rate 0.31% 0.83% Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Outstanding at 1 April 2,616,027 2,143,151 Granted during the year 279,412 610,434 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 447,274 112,558 Exercised during the year 667,327 25,000 Outstanding at 31 March 1,780,838 2,616,027 Exercisable at 31 March 621,443 Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: Number of Number of awards as at awards as at 31 March 31 March Term of the award 2018 2017 14 June 2013 15 July 2019 825,950 1,000,000 12 June 2014 31 July 2020 168,921 500,000 18 November 2015 18 November 2025 290,577 505,593 30 January 2017 22 December 2026 263,269 284,096 30 January 2017 30 January 2027 197,425 326,338 08 February 2018 07 February 2028 34,696 Total 1,780,838 2,616,027 176 176 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 27.
Employee costs continued Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: Other schemes The Group also issues options to employees under Savings-Related Share Option Schemes Sharesave and free shares to employees Number of Number of under an All Employee Share Plan.
In the year ended 31 March 2018, options were granted under Sharesave with a three-year and awards as at awards as at five-year vesting period.
31 March 31 March Term of the award 2018 2017 Additional awards were granted under an All Employee Share Plan, offering employees awards of ordinary shares in the Company at 22 July 2015 21 July 2025 2,085,889 2,497,624 a nil exercise price.
All awards vest after three years and the vesting of these share awards is dependent on continued employment over the vesting period.
Related party transactions Total 6,137,145 5,104,256 Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Total compensation in respect of key management, who are defined as the Board of Exceptional, one-off awards Directors and certain members of senior management, is considered to be a related party transaction.
The Company grants certain options in respect of ordinary shares as exceptional and one-off awards with a nil exercise price.
The awards vest in stages, which vary by award, and are dependent upon continued employment over the vesting period, as well as key The total compensation in respect of key management for the year was as follows: strategic performance objectives linked to long-term growth of the Group for certain awards.
Year to Year to On 8 February 2018 options in respect of 279,412 ordinary shares were granted as two one-off awards.
The second award was for options in respect of 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 51,785 ordinary shares and will vest in the following manner: 33% vested immediately, 33% will vest on 23 October 2018, 17% will vest on 22 October 2019 and 17% will vest on 30 October 2020. m m Salaries, short-term benefits and social security costs 14.4 14.3 The fair value for the awards has been determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in Termination benefits 1.6 Share-based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 5.9 5.5 determining the fair value were as follows: Total 20.3 21.4 First award Second award There were no other material related party transactions in the period.
Share price at contract commencement date 15.44 15.44 Exercise price nil nil Equivalent to Equivalent to Life of award vesting period vesting period Expected volatility 0.0% 29.3% Risk-free interest rate 0.31% 0.83% Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Outstanding at 1 April 2,616,027 2,143,151 Granted during the year 279,412 610,434 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 447,274 112,558 Exercised during the year 667,327 25,000 Outstanding at 31 March 1,780,838 2,616,027 Exercisable at 31 March 621,443 Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: Number of Number of awards as at awards as at 31 March 31 March Term of the award 2018 2017 14 June 2013 15 July 2019 825,950 1,000,000 12 June 2014 31 July 2020 168,921 500,000 18 November 2015 18 November 2025 290,577 505,593 30 January 2017 22 December 2026 263,269 284,096 30 January 2017 30 January 2027 197,425 326,338 08 February 2018 07 February 2028 34,696 Total 1,780,838 2,616,027 176 177 177 Notes to the Financial Statements 29.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of related undertakings as at 31 March 2018, including their country of incorporation and percentage share ownership, is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, all undertakings are indirectly owned by Burberry Group plc and operate in the country of incorporation.
All the subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated as at 31 March 2018.
Country of Holding Company name incorporation Interest % Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd 1 Australia Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Austria GmbH 2 Austria Ordinary shares 100 2 Sandringham Bahrain SPC 3 Bahrain Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Antwerp N. V. 4 Belgium Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Brasil Comrcio fide Artigos fide Vesturio e Acessrios Ltda 5 Brazil Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Canada Inc 6 Canada Common stock 100 Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd 7 China Equity Interest 100 Burberry Czech Rep s. r. o.
8 Czech Republic Ordinary shares 100 Burberry France SASU 9 France Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Deutschland GmbH 10 Germany Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Asia Holdings Limited 11 Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Asia Limited 11 Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 Burberry China Holdings Limited 11 Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Hungary kft 12 Hungary Ordinary shares 100 Burberry India Private Limited 13 India Ordinary shares 51 Burberry Ireland Investments Unlimited Company 14 Ireland Ordinary A shares 100 Ordinary B shares 100 Burberry Ireland Limited 15 Ireland Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Italy Rome SRL 16 Italy Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Italy SRL 16 Italy Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Japan K. K. 17 Japan Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Al Kuwait General Trading Company for Textiles and Kuwait Ordinary shares 49 3 Accessories WLL 18 Burberry Macau Limited 19 Macau Ordinary quota 100 Burberry Malaysia Sdn.
20 Malaysia Ordinary shares 100 Horseferry Mexico S. A. fide C. V. 21 Mexico Ordinary fixed shares 100 Ordinary variable shares 100 Horseferry Mexico Servicios Administrativos, S. A. fide C. V. 21 Mexico Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Netherlands B. V. 22 Netherlands Ordinary shares 100 3 Burberry Qatar W. L. L 23 Qatar Ordinary shares 49 Burberry Korea Limited 24 Republic of Korea Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Retail LLC 25 Russian Federation Participatory share 100 Burberry Saudi Company Limited 26 Kingdom of Saudi Ordinary shares 75 Arabia Burberry Singapore Distribution Company PTE Ltd 27 Singapore Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Spain Retail SL 28 Spain Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Latin America Holdings, S. L. 28 Spain Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Suisse SA 29 Switzerland Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Taiwan Co Ltd 30 Taiwan Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Thailand Limited 31 Thailand Ordinary shares 100 Burberry FZ-LLC 32 United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 100 3 Burberry Middle East LLC 32 United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 49 Burberry Espana Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 4 Burberry N0.
1 Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry No.
7 Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 & 4 Burberry Spain Finance Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry UK Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Beauty Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Distribution Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Europe Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Finance Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 178 178 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 29.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments continued In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of related undertakings as at 31 March 2018, including their Country of Holding country of incorporation and percentage share ownership, is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, all undertakings are Company name incorporation Interest % 1 indirectly owned by Burberry Group plc and operate in the country of incorporation.
All the subsidiary undertakings have been Burberry Haymarket Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 consolidated as at 31 March 2018.
Burberry Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry International Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 5 Country of Holding Burberry Italy Retail Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Company name incorporation Interest % Burberry Latin America Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd 1 Australia Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Austria GmbH 2 Austria Ordinary shares 100 Burberry London Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 2 Sandringham Bahrain SPC 3 Bahrain Ordinary shares 100 Burberry New York 2005 Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Antwerp N. V. 4 Belgium Ordinary shares 100 Burberry New York Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary A shares 100 Burberry Brasil Comrcio fide Artigos fide Vesturio e Acessrios Ltda 5 Brazil Ordinary shares 100 Ordinary B shares 100 4 Burberry Canada Inc 6 Canada Common stock 100 Burberry Spain UK Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd 7 China Equity Interest 100 Burberry Treasury Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Czech Rep s. r. o.
8 Czech Republic Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale 2005 Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry France SASU 9 France Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary A shares 100 Burberry Deutschland GmbH 10 Germany Ordinary shares 100 Ordinary B shares 100 1 Burberry Asia Holdings Limited 11 Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 Burberrys Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Asia Limited 11 Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 Hampstead UK Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry China Holdings Limited 11 Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 Sweet Street Developments Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Hungary kft 12 Hungary Ordinary shares 100 Temple Works Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry India Private Limited 13 India Ordinary shares 51 The Scotch House Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Ireland Investments Unlimited Company 14 Ireland Ordinary A shares 100 Thomas Burberry Holdings Limited.
33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Ordinary B shares 100 Thomas Burberry Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Ireland Limited 15 Ireland Ordinary shares 100 Woodrow-Universal Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Italy Rome SRL 16 Italy Ordinary shares 100 Woodrow-Universal Pension Trustee Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Italy SRL 16 Italy Ordinary shares 100 Worldwide Debt Collections Limited 34 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Japan K. K. 17 Japan Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale Limited 35 United States Class X common stock 100 Burberry Al Kuwait General Trading Company for Textiles and Kuwait Ordinary shares 49 Class Y common stock 100 3 Accessories WLL 18 Burberry Limited 36 United States Class X common stock 100 Burberry Macau Limited 19 Macau Ordinary quota 100 Class Y common stock 100 Burberry Malaysia Sdn.
20 Malaysia Ordinary shares 100 Burberry North America, Inc 37 United States Common stock 100 Horseferry Mexico S. A. fide C. V. 21 Mexico Ordinary fixed shares 100 Burberry USA Holdings Inc 37 United States Common stock 100 Ordinary variable shares 100 Burberry Warehousing Corporation 37 United States Common stock 100 Horseferry Mexico Servicios Administrativos, S. A. fide C. V. 21 Mexico Ordinary shares 100 Castleford Industries, Ltd 37 United States Series A common stock 100 Burberry Netherlands B. V. 22 Netherlands Ordinary shares 100 Castleford Tailors, Ltd 37 United States Common stock 100 3 Burberry Qatar W. L. L 23 Qatar Ordinary shares 49 Burberry Korea Limited 24 Republic of Korea Ordinary shares 100 1.
Held directly by Burberry Group plc.
Burberry Retail LLC 25 Russian Federation Participatory share 100 2.
The Group has an indirect holding of 100% of the issued share capital through a nominee.
Burberry Saudi Company Limited 26 Kingdom of Saudi Ordinary shares 75 3.
The Group has a 100% share of profits of Burberry Middle East LLC as well as a 100% and 88% share of profits in Burberry Middle East LLCs Arabia subsidiaries in Kuwait and Qatar respectively.
The Group has the power to control these companies via the terms of the shareholder agreement for Burberry Singapore Distribution Company PTE Ltd 27 Singapore Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Middle East LLC.
Burberry Spain Retail SL 28 Spain Ordinary shares 100 4.
Strike off application filed on 12 April 2018.
Burberry Latin America Holdings, S. L. 28 Spain Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Suisse SA 29 Switzerland Ordinary shares 100 Ref Registered office address Burberry Taiwan Co Ltd 30 Taiwan Ordinary shares 100 1 Level 5, 343 George Street, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia Burberry Thailand Limited 31 Thailand Ordinary shares 100 2 Kohlmarkt 2, 1010 Wien, Austria Burberry FZ-LLC 32 United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 100 3 3 Building 1A, Road 365 Isa Al Kabeer Avenue, Manama Center 316, Unit 7, Moda Mall, Manama, Bahrain Burberry Middle East LLC 32 United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 49 4 Schuttershofstraat 29, 2000 Antwerp, Belgium Burberry Espana Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 4 5 Rua Do Rcio, 350 3 Andar, Vila Olimpia, So Paulo SP, CEP 04552-000, Brazil Burberry N0.
1 Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 6 1 First Canadian Place, 100 King Street West, Suite 1600, Toronto ON M5X 1G5, Canada Burberry No.
7 Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 & 4 7 Units 3302-3305, Wheelock Square, 1717 Nanjing West Road, Shanghai, 200040, China Burberry Spain Finance Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 8 Praha 1, Pask 11 67, PS 11000, Czech Republic Burberry UK Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 9 56 rue du Faubourg Saint-Honor, 75008, Paris, France Burberry Beauty Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 10 Knigsallee 50, 40212, Dsseldorf, Germany Burberry Distribution Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 11 Suites 2201-02 & 11-14, 22 F Devon House, Taikoo Place, 979 Kings Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong Burberry Europe Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Finance Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 178 179 179 Notes to the Financial Statements 29.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments continued Ref Registered office address 12 1124 Budapest, Csrsz utca 49-51, Hungary 13 3-A-1 Taj Apartment, Rao Tula Ram Marg, New Delhi, 110022, India 14 Suite 9, Bunkilla Plaza, Bracetown Business Park, Clonee, Co. Meath, D15 XR27, Ireland 15 Suite 9, Bunkilla Plaza, Bracetown Office Park, Clonee, Co. Meath, D15 XR27, Ireland 16 Via Monte Napoleone 12, 20121, Milan, Italy 17 1-8-14 Ginza, Chuo-Ku, Tokyo, Japan 18 Hawalli, Block 8, Tunis Street Building, 1 Shiraa Center, Floor 7 Office No.
12, PO Box 22758, Code 13088, Safat, Kuwait 19 Avenida Dr. Sun Yat Sen, s n. Building One Central, 1st Floor, Shops 125-127, Macau Special Adminstrative Region, Macau 20 Level 21, Suite 21.01, The Gardens South Tower, Mid Valley City, Lingkaren Syed Putra 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia 21 Ejercito Nacional Mexicano, 843b Granada Miguel, Ciudad fide Mxico, 11520, Mexico 22 Pieter Cornelisz.
Hooftstraat 48 H, -50, 1071BZ Amsterdam, Netherlands 23 PO Box 22117, Doha, Qatar 24 Cheongdam-dong 459, Dosan-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea 25 Ulitsa Petrovka, 7, 107031, Moscow, Russian Federation 26 The Plaza Olaya Street, PO Box 2392, Riyadh, 12244, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 27 10 Collyer Quay, #10-01 Ocean Financial Centre, 049315, Singapore 28 Calle Valencia 640, 08026 Barcelona, Spain 29 c o L&S Trust Services SA, 30 Route fide Chne, 1208, Genve, Switzerland 30 5F, No.
451, ChangChun Road, Songshan District, Taipei City, 10547, Taiwan 31 989 Siam Piwat Tower, 12A Floor, Unit B1, B2, Rama 1 Road, Pathumwan Sub-district, Pathumwan District, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand 32 Dubai Design District, Building 08, 3rd Floor, PO Box 333266, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 33 Horseferry House, Horseferry Road, London SW1P 2AW, United Kingdom 34 Adelaide House, London Bridge, London EC4R 9HA, United Kingdom 35 CT Corporation System, 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York, 10011, United States 36 CT Corporation System, 1633 Broadway, New York, New York, 10019, United States 37 The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 19801, United States 30.
Transactions with non-controlling interests In the year ended 31 March 2017 the Group entered into two transactions with non-controlling interests.
The impact of these transactions has been presented in the financial statements of the Group in the year ended 31 March 2017 in the following manner: Burberry Middle East Burberry Shanghai transaction transaction Total m m m Charge taken through statement of changes in equity 44.6 53.7 98.3 Cash outflow recognised in statement of cash flows 15.1 53.7 68.8 Burberry Middle East LLC On 22 April 2016 the Group entered into an agreement to transfer the economic right to the non-controlling interest in Burberry Middle East LLC to the Group in consideration of payments to be made to the minority shareholder based on an agreed percentage of the future revenue, together with fixed payments.
The present value of the fixed and contingent deferred consideration in total, at the date of the transaction, was estimated to be AED 236.0m 44.6m.
Non-controlling interests with a book value of 25.5m were transferred to retained earnings.
A liability in relation to the remaining deferred consideration to be paid on the Burberry Middle East transaction was also recognised.
Refer to note 20 for further details on the carrying value of the liability at the balance sheet date.
Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd On 1 August 2016, the Group acquired the remaining 15% economic interest in its business in China, which was held by Sparkle Roll Holdings Ltd, a non-Group company, for consideration of CNY 470.9m 53.7m, through the exercise of a call option held by the Group.
Non-controlling interests with a book value of 27.7m were transferred to retained earnings.
The Group had also granted a put option over the same 15% economic interest to Sparkle Retail Holdings Ltd which was exercisable after 1 September 2020.
Upon exercise of the call option by the Group, the put option expired and, as a result, the value of the liability at the date of exercise, being 51.0m, was transferred directly to retained earnings.
180 180 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 29.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments continued 31.
Contingent liabilities Ref Registered office address The Group is subject to claims against it and to tax audits in a number of jurisdictions.
These typically relate to Value Added Taxes, 12 1124 Budapest, Csrsz utca 49-51, Hungary sales taxes, customs duties, corporate taxes, transfer pricing, payroll taxes, various contractual claims and other matters.
Where 13 3-A-1 Taj Apartment, Rao Tula Ram Marg, New Delhi, 110022, India appropriate, the estimated cost of known obligations have been provided in these financial statements in accordance with the 14 Suite 9, Bunkilla Plaza, Bracetown Business Park, Clonee, Co. Meath, D15 XR27, Ireland Groups accounting policies but these matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
While changes to the amounts that may be payable 15 Suite 9, Bunkilla Plaza, Bracetown Office Park, Clonee, Co. Meath, D15 XR27, Ireland could be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised, the Group does not currently 16 Via Monte Napoleone 12, 20121, Milan, Italy expect the outcome of these contingent liabilities to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
17 1-8-14 Ginza, Chuo-Ku, Tokyo, Japan 18 Hawalli, Block 8, Tunis Street Building, 1 Shiraa Center, Floor 7 Office No.
Events after the balance sheet date 19 Avenida Dr. Sun Yat Sen, s n. Building One Central, 1st Floor, Shops 125-127, Macau Special Adminstrative Region, Macau On 9 May 2018, Burberry entered into an agreement to acquire a business engaged in the development of leather products for, and 20 Level 21, Suite 21.01, The Gardens South Tower, Mid Valley City, Lingkaren Syed Putra 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah supply of, leather products to Burberry.
Consideration and other related payments for the acquisition are anticipated to be up to Persekutuan, Malaysia 26m, of which 15m will be paid on completion with the balance to be paid over the following three years, subject to achieved 21 Ejercito Nacional Mexicano, 843b Granada Miguel, Ciudad fide Mxico, 11520, Mexico performance across a number of measures.
The acquisition is expected to complete by the end of September 2018.
