Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Significant accounting policies General information The Statement of comprehensive income of the company has been omitted from these financial statements in accordance with Caledonia Investments plc is an investment trust company section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England in 1928, under the Companies Acts 1908 to 1917.
The address of its Under the UK Corporate Governance Code and applicable registered office is Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London regulations, the directors are required to satisfy themselves that it SW1E 6NN.
The ordinary shares of the company are premium is reasonable to presume that the company is a going concern.
The listed on the London Stock Exchange.
directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational These financial statements were authorised for issue by the existence for the foreseeable future, as discussed on page 62. directors on 24 May 2018.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, as preparing the financial statements.
this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Adopted IFRSs Caledonia operates.
In the current year, the group has not adopted any new standards Key sources of estimation uncertainty or interpretations.
Fair values of financial instruments IFRSs not yet applied Most of the groups financial instruments are measured at fair At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following value in the Statement of financial position and it is usually standards, which have not been applied in these financial possible to determine their fair values within a reasonable range statements, were in issue but not yet effective.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments revises the approach to financial For actively traded financial instruments, quoted market prices are instruments framework replacing IAS 39 Financial Instruments: readily available.
For other financial instruments, such as unlisted Recognition and Measurement.
The classification and securities, valuation techniques are used to estimate fair value.
measurement of the groups financial instruments are not Valuation techniques make maximum use of market inputs, anticipated to be impacted upon adoption of IFRS 9.
The group including reference to the current fair values of instruments that will continue to apply fair value to investment assets as either are substantially the same subject to appropriate adjustments.
the cash flows are not solely payments of principal and interest Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on or the business model is to manage them on a fair value basis.
market conditions and information about the financial instrument.
The new standard will be applied in the financial statements for These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties the year ended 31 March 2019. and matters of significant judgement and therefore cannot be IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers revises the determined with precision.
approach to revenue recognition from contracts with customers See note 22 for further explanation of the development of and replaces IAS 11 Accounting for construction contracts.
The unobservable inputs used for valuations.
majority of the groups income is received from financial instruments which are excluded from the scope of IFRS 15.
The Significant accounting policies new standard will be applied in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019.
Basis of accounting These financial statements have been prepared in accordance IFRS 16 Leases provides a new approach to lease accounting with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as replacing IAS 17 Leases.
The group is required to recognise lease adopted by the EU and therefore the group financial statements contracts as a lessee on the balance sheet as a right of use asset comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
IFRSs comprise with a corresponding lease liability with the exception of short accounting standards issued by the International Accounting term or low value leases.
Due to immaterial lease obligations, Standards Board and its predecessor body as well as the standard is not expected to impact on the financial position interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting of the group.
The standard is not being early adopted and will be Interpretations Committee and its predecessor body.
applied in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020.
The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in and properties.
Where presentational guidance set out in the future periods in their issued form will have no material impact on Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of the financial statements.
Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP Assessment as investment entity issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January Entities that meet the definition of an investment entity within 2017 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted by IFRS 10 are required to account for most investments in controlled the EU, the directors have sought to prepare the financial entities as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsidiaries that statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of provide investment related services or engage in permitted the SORP.
investment related activities with investees continue to be 74 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information consolidated unless they are also investment entities.
The board Expenses has concluded that the company meets the definition of an All expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis.
In the financial investment entity.
statements, ongoing management expenses are included in revenue reserves, whereas performance fees and share-based Basis of consolidation payment expenses costs relating to compensation schemes that In accordance with the IFRS 10 IAS 28 Investment entities are linked directly to investment performance are included in amendments, the consolidated financial statements include the capital reserves.
Expenses of acquisition of an investment financial statements of the company and service entities designated as held at fair value through profit or loss or expenses controlled by the company made up to the reporting date.
Control of an aborted acquisition or disposal of an investment are is achieved where the company has the power over the potential presented as transaction costs, or deducted from the proceeds of investee as a result of voting or other rights, has rights to positive sale as appropriate, and included in capital reserves.
or negative variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect Operating leases significantly the amount of its returns.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of Employee benefits exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets Pension schemes and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an date are translated to the functional currency at the foreign expense as they fall due.
exchange rate ruling at the reporting date.
Non-monetary assets For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a determined using the projected unit credit method, with foreign currency are translated to the functional currency using actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date.
the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary Re-measurement gains and losses are recognised in full in the assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are period in which they occur in other comprehensive income.
stated at fair value are translated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were Past service cost is recognised immediately in the period of a plan determined.
In the financial statements, foreign exchange gains or losses are The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Statement of recognised in capital or revenue reserve depending on whether financial position represents the present value of the defined the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature respectively.
benefit obligations as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present Income value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue the plan.
when the shareholders right to receive payment has been established, normally the ex-dividend date.
Where no ex-dividend Profit sharing and bonus plans date is available, dividends receivable on or before the period end The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and are treated as revenue for the period.
Provision is made for any profit sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the dividends not expected to be received.
profit attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The group recognises a provision where The fixed returns on debt securities, loans and non-equity shares contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has are recognised on an effective interest rate basis, which is the created a constructive obligation.
rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net Share-based payments carrying amount.
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the fair value at the date of grant and the fair value is expensed on a lease term.
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups The companys share of net income from limited partnerships is estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
recognised as revenue when received.
Where employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to the equity Where uncertainty arises over the collectability of an amount instruments of its parent as consideration for the services already included in income, the uncollectible amount or the provided to the subsidiary, the subsidiary recognises an equityamount in respect of which the recovery has ceased to be settled share-based payment transaction expense with a probable, is recognised as an expense.
When the uncertainty over corresponding increase recognised in equity representing a collectability is removed, normally on receipt, the income is contribution from the parent.
In addition, the parent recognises an recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income.
increase in equity and an increase in subsidiary investment equivalent to the amount of the share-based payment transaction.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 75 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Significant accounting policies continued An employee share trust is used for distributing option and which they are paid and, for final dividends, the date on which performance share and deferred bonus awards to employees they are approved in general meeting.
under Caledonias share remuneration schemes.
The trustee Investments purchases shares with money lent interest free by Caledonia and Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date, transfers shares to participating employees on receipt of the where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract requisite consideration or calling of awards.
whose terms require delivery of the investment within the The transactions the employee share trust undertakes are timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially considered to be performed by the trust as an agent for Caledonia.
measured at cost, excluding transaction costs.
The transactions of the employee share trust are included in the Investments held as part of the groups business of investing in separate financial statements of the parent company and, financial assets are designated as held at fair value through profit following the requirements of IFRS 10, in the consolidated financial or loss in both the consolidated financial statements and the statements as if they arose in that company.
Own shares held by company financial statements.
the employee share trust as at the reporting date are accounted for as if they were treasury shares.
Investments designated as held at fair value through profit or loss are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Gains or National Insurance on share option scheme gains and losses arising from changes in the value of investments designated performance share and deferred bonus awards as held at fair value through profit or loss, including foreign National Insurance payable on the exercise of certain employee exchange movements, are included in net profit or loss for the share options and performance share awards at the date of period as a capital return.
exercise and deferred bonus awards at the date of call has been charged as an expense spread over the respective vesting periods.
Listed investments are valued at bid price or the last traded price The charge is based on the difference between the market value when a bid price is not available.
Unlisted investments are valued of the underlying shares at the reporting date and the exercise using recognised valuation methodologies, based on the price for share options or nil for performance share awards and International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation deferred bonus awards and calculated at the latest enacted Guidelines, which reflect the amount for which an asset could be National Insurance rate.
exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties on an arms length basis.
The portfolio valuation methodology is detailed on Taxation pages 23 and 24.
The tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Distributions from investment limited partnerships are treated as disposal proceeds or income in accordance with the nature of the The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the distribution.
Any surplus capital distributions after repaying period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the partners capital are treated as realised gains.
Statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods Derivative financial instruments and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
were applicable at the reporting date.
Hedge accounting is not applied.
Changes in the fair value of Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on derivative financial instruments are recognised in the Statement of differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities comprehensive income as they arise.
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used Capital reserve in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the The company maintains a capital reserve.
The following items are liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all transferred into the capital reserve from profit or loss: taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit profits will be available against which deductible temporary or loss differences can be utilised.
Investment trust companies that have gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value of approval as such under section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act investments 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
fees and share-based payment expenses linked to investment The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each performance reporting date and adjusted to the extent that it is probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be available to allow all or part expenses and finance costs incurred directly in relation to of the assets to be recovered.
capital transactions actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes Dividend distribution Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are taxation on items recognised in the capital reserve.
appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity.
For interim dividends, this will normally mean the date on 76 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Investment property Cash and cash equivalents Investment properties are properties which are held either to earn Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash rental income or for capital appreciation or for both.
Investment equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are properties are stated at fair value.
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
The valuations are prepared by considering the aggregate of the net annual rents receivable from the properties and, where Borrowings relevant, associated costs.
A yield which reflects the specific risks Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the fair inherent in the net cash flows is then applied to the net annual value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance rentals to arrive at the property valuation.
charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in Statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest profit or loss.
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument over the lease term.
to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they Property, plant and equipment arise.
The effective interest method allocates the interest expense Property is measured at fair value.
Gains arising from changes in over the life of the instrument so as to reflect a constant return on the fair value are included in other comprehensive income for the the carrying amount of the liability.
period in which they arise and losses included in profit or loss.
To Provisions the extent gains represent the reversal of cumulative losses A provision is recognised in the Statement of financial position previously recognised they are included in profit or loss.
when the company has a present legal or constructive obligation Plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss.
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the Assets in course of construction are measured at cost less any expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date accumulated impairment loss.
and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the fair value or cost of In the financial statements, provisions recognised for investments items of property, plant and equipment less their estimated are included in the Statement of comprehensive income as a residual values using the straight-line method over their estimated capital return.
Land and assets in course of construction are not depreciated.
Share capital Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded as the The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
as follows: Where the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust Buildings 25-50 years purchases the companys equity share capital, the consideration Office equipment 3-5 years paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of Accumulated depreciation on revalued property is eliminated income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
companys owners until the shares are transferred.
Where such shares are subsequently transferred, any consideration received, The gain or loss on the disposal or retirement of an asset is net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Statement of the companys owners.
Operating segments Impairment of assets Operating segments are based on the financial information At each reporting date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of reported to the chief operating decision maker.
its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, an impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, if any.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Receivables Receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 77
