196 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information In this section we have provided you with some key information to Share dealing manage your shareholding in Capita plc.
A quick and easy share-dealing service is available for existing Capita shareholders to either sell or buy Capita plc shares online or by Useful websites telephone.
com investors For further information go to: www.
com or telephone Our corporate site is our main external communication channel where 1 44 0 371 664 0445.
Lines are open between 8.00am - 4.30pm, we showcase our services, solutions and innovations from across the Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
It also contains an investor section, where institutional and private shareholders can access the latest If you have only a small number of shares which are uneconomical to announcements, financial and statutory information and reports.
sell, you may wish to donate them to charity free of charge through ShareGift Registered Charity 1052686.
Find out more at Shareholder portal www.
Capitas register of shareholders is maintained by Link Asset Services.
1 Calls to 0871 numbers cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys Our shareholder portal is a secure online site where you can manage access charge.
Calls to 0371 numbers are charged at a standard geographic your shareholding quickly and easily.
You can manage many aspects, rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be such as view your holding, update contact details, manage dividend charged at the applicable international rate.
payments, request to receive shareholder communications by email and register.
To register you will need your investor code, which can be Company contact details found on your share certificate or dividend confirmation.
Registered office Capita plc e-communications 30 Berners Street Help us communicate with you in a greener, more efficient and costLondon W1T 3LR effective way by switching from postal to email communications Tel: 020 7799 1525 which means that we will notify you by email each time new Registered in England and Wales with registration number: 2081330 shareholder communications have been placed on the Capita website.
Investor Relations Registering for e-communications is very straightforward.
Go to our shareholder portal www.
Further information about IRTeam@capita.
co. uk Head of Investor Relations Andrew Ripper our shareholder portal is below.
Company Secretariat Managing your shareholding secretariat@capita.
co. uk We aim to communicate effectively with our shareholders, via our Group Company Secretary Francesca Todd website www.
Shareholders who have questions relating to the Groups business or wish to receive further hard copies Company advisers of annual reports should contact Capitas investor relations team on Independent auditor 020 7799 1525 or email: IRTeam@capita.
KPMG LLP If you have any queries about your shareholding or dividend payments please contact the Companys registrar, Link Asset Services: Corporate brokers Citi Link Asset Services Goldman Sachs The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Bankers Beckenham Barclays Bank plc Kent BR3 4TU National Westminster Bank plc Email: enquiries@linkgroup.
co. uk Corporate communications Tel UK : 0871 664 0300 Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge Powerscourt 1 Overseas : 44 371 664 0300 Registrars Lines are open between 9.00am 5.30pm, Monday to Friday Link Asset Services excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
