Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of Capita plc for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 13 March 2019.
Capita plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activities of the Group are given in the strategic report on pages 152.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies Changes to non-statutory reporting The Group has simplified its non-statutory reporting measures to improve transparency and make it easier for the readers of its annual report and accounts to understand its financial performance.
Historically, the Group presented underlying and non-underlying results comprising business exits and specific items on the face of the income statement.
In the notes, underlying results before significant new contracts and restructuring was disclosed.
The revised presentation has only the reported results on the face of the income statement, with a footnote detailing adjusted profit and earnings per share, and a reference to a note to the consolidated financial statements see note 3 providing a reconciliation between reported and adjusted profit.
The presentation of the cash flow statement and additional cash flow information in note 29 have also been revised to show the same split.
Adjusted profit IAS 1 permits an entity to present additional information for specific items to enable users to better assess the entitys financial performance.
In practice these items are commonly referred to as specific or non-underlying items although such terminology is not defined in IFRS and accordingly there is a level of judgement required in determining what items to separately identify.
The Board has adopted a policy to separately disclose those items that it considers are outside the underlying operating results for the particular year under review and against which the Groups performance is assessed.
Those items which relate to the ordinary course of the Groups operating activities remain within adjusted profit.
The following items are excluded from adjusted profit: acquired intangible amortisation, impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles, acquisition contingent consideration movements, the financial impact of business exits or businesses in the process of being exited, acquisition expenses, movements in the mark-to-market valuation of certain financial instruments, the impact of significant new contracts and restructuring see below, and other specific non-recurring items in the income statement.
In the Directors judgement, these need to be disclosed separately see notes 3, 4, 5, 9 and 10 by virtue of their nature, size and or incidence, in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying in-year performance of the business.
The Board does not consider these items when assessing the performance of the in-year performance and accordingly these items are also excluded in the discussion of divisional performances in the strategic report.
Under IFRS 15, contracts potentially recognise lower profits or losses in their early years where there are significant upfront restructuring costs or higher operating costs prior to transformation.
As such, following the adoption of IFRS 15, the Board adopted a policy to separately disclose the operating profit loss from significant new contract wins in-period and significant restructuring, in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the performance of the underlying business.
The impact of these significant new contracts and restructuring are excluded in arriving at adjusted profit.
A significant new contract is assessed as that which is significant and either entirely new to the Group, or a significant amendment to the scope and scale of an existing contract.
The Group continually assesses the resourcing levels, both at a divisional level and also in relation to the management and delivery of individual contracts.
This results in restructuring in the normal course of business and any such charges are recorded in adjusted profit.
A significant restructuring is assessed as that above this normal level of restructuring.
As discussed in the strategic report, a major transformation plan has been launched and costs incurred in support of this, including external adviser costs, are presented as restructuring charges.
Contract terminations arising in the normal course of business and which result in the disposal of a contract fulfilment asset and or a true-up of revenue recognised, will be included within adjusted profit, and separately disclosed if considered material see note 3.
This policy is kept under review by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee, and is discussed in the Committees report on pages 7179.
The Audit and Risk Committee will keep under review the policy for presentation significant restructuring costs separately, as the programme covers multiple years.
Accordingly, the Committee is cognisant of the need to ensure that costs are defined and that appropriate borders are set for such an extended and critical programme.
Except for the disposal of our Capita Asset Services businesses, none of our 2018 or 2017 business exits or businesses in the process of being exited meet the definition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5, which requires disclosure and the restatement of comparative information where the relative size of a disposal or business closure is significant.
Accordingly, the separate presentation described above does not fall within the requirements of IFRS 5 concerning discontinued operations.
The 2017 adjusted comparatives are restated for business exits or businesses in the process of being exited in 2018 to enable better comparability.
Assets held for sale The Group classifies a non-current asset or disposal group as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continued use.
For this to be the case, the asset or disposal group must be available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets or disposal groups and its sale must be highly probable.
For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset or disposal group, and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have been initiated.
Further, the asset or disposal group must be actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
In addition, the sale should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
106 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in line with generally accepted accounting principles requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the presented periods.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: The measurement of revenue and resulting profit recognition due to the size and complexity of some of the Groups contracts, there are significant judgements to be applied, including the measurement and timing of revenue recognition and the recognition of related balance sheet items such as contract fulfilment assets, capitalisation of costs to obtain a contract, trade receivables, accrued income and deferred income that result from the performance of the contract see e and s below, and the divisional strategy and performance section of the strategic report.
This is particularly in respect of contracts that are in the transformation stage and pre-inflection point, such as PCSE and mobilcom-debitel.
The Group is required to estimate the contract profitability, including the costs to complete the contract.
The ability to accurately forecast such costs involves estimates around cost savings to be achieved over time, anticipated profitability of the contract, as well as future performance against any contract-specific KPIs that could trigger variable consideration or service credits.
The Group first assesses whether the contract assets are impaired and then further considers whether any onerous contract exists.
To mitigate the level of uncertainty in making these estimates the Group regularly compares actual performance of the contracts against previous forecasts and considers whether there have been any changes to significant judgements.
Following this review, as outlined in note 17, contract fulfilment asset provisions for impairment of 22.2m 2017: 14.1m were identified relating to assets capitalised in the year and recognised within adjusted cost of sales.
Due to the level of uncertainty and combination of variables associated with those estimates there is a significant risk that there could be material adjustment to the carrying amounts of onerous contract provisions within the next financial year.
The future range of possible outcomes in respect of the assumptions and significant judgements made to determine the carrying value of onerous contracts could result in either a material increase or decrease in the value of contract fulfilment assets or onerous contract provisions in the next financial year.
The extent to which actual results differ from estimates made at the reporting date depends on the combined outcome and timing of a large number of variables associated with performance across multiple contracts.
Given this wide spread of contracts, it is not practical to provide a quantitative analysis of the aggregated judgements that are applied, and we do not believe that disclosing a potential range of outcomes on a consolidated basis would provide meaningful information to a reader of the accounts.
Due to commercial sensitivities, we do not specifically disclose the amounts involved on any individual contract.
The Board has discussed in the strategic report the outlook on the key contracts that are pre-inflection to provide context for a reader to assess the results and performance of the underlying division.
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill in a business combination on the acquisition of a business the identifiable intangible assets may include licences, customer lists and brands.
The fair value of these assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows generated by the asset as in most cases no active market for the assets exists and therefore no observable value.
The use of different assumptions for the expectations of future cash flows and the discount rate would change the valuation of the intangible assets.
The relative size of the Groups intangible assets, excluding goodwill, makes the judgements surrounding the estimated useful lives material to the Groups financial position and performance.
The measurement and impairment of goodwill the amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business combination is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis or more frequently if required and this requires an estimation of the fair value less cost of disposal of the cash generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated utilising an estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate see note 15.
The measurement of defined benefit obligations the accounting cost of these benefits and the present value of pension liabilities involve judgements about uncertain events including such factors as the life expectancy of members, the salary progression of our current employees, price inflation and the discount rate used to calculate the net present value of the future pension payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in determining the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
The assumptions reflect historical experience and our judgement regarding future expectations see note 32.
The measurement of provisions and contingent liabilities measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation and arbitration, as well as other contingent liabilities see notes 25 and 31.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood of success of any claim and whether a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision.
For further details on the sensitivity of carrying amounts to the methods, assumptions and estimates used, the reason for the sensitivity, the expected resolution of uncertainties, and the range of reasonable possible alternatives for each of the above, refer to the policies and notes referenced.
The Directors apply judgement when considering the presentation of items in arriving at adjusted profit.
As discussed above, the Group separately presents specific items in the income statement, which in the Directors judgement, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size and or incidence in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business see note 3.
This judgement has an impact on the calculation of covenants refer to b. a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of Capita plc the Company and all of its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The parent company has applied FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework in the preparation of its individual financial statements and these are contained on pages 178195.
FRS 101 applies IFRS as adopted by the European Union with certain disclosure exemptions.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 107 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain financial instruments and the pension assets have been measured at fair value.
The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Having taken decisive action to strengthen the balance sheet through the raising of new equity and the disposal of non-core businesses, and undertaking a rigorous assessment of the financial forecast, the Board have concluded that the Group will continue to have adequate financial resources to realise their assets and discharge its liabilities as they fall due.
Accordingly, the Directors have formed the judgement that it is appropriate to prepare these consolidated financial statements on the going concern basis.
Therefore, the consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments which would be required if the going concern basis of preparation is inappropriate.
The Groups committed revolving credit facility, bank term loan facilities and private placement loan notes are subject to compliance with covenant requirements including maximum ratios of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
The Groups covenanted maximum ratio is 3.0 times or to 3.5 times depending on the debt instrument in question.
Net debt is reported in note 29 additional cash flow information.
Adjusted net debt is used to calculate the gearing ratio adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA refer to the alternative performance measures on pages 197198.
The Groups calculation of adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA at 31 December 2018 was 1.2 times and was compliant with the relevant ratios.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Capita plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which Capita plc has control and the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between the fair value of the consideration received and the carrying amount of the assets including goodwill disposed of.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
d Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
In addition, the Group has adopted the new amendments to standards and new IFRIC as detailed below.
Initial adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, bringing together all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments: classification and measurement: impairment: and hedge accounting.
With the exception of hedge accounting, which the Group applied prospectively, the Group has applied IFRS 9 retrospectively, with the initial application date of 1 January 2018.
There has been no restatement to the comparative balances for the period beginning 1 January 2017 as there are no requirements under the standard to restate comparatives.
The Group has performed an assessment to understand the requirements of IFRS 9 and how these differ from IAS 39 and has concluded there is no significant impact on the consolidated financial statements from the date of adoption.
There were no differences between previous carrying amounts and consequently no adjustment has been made to opening retained earnings.
The updated account policy is set out in r. Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle As part of its annual improvements cycles, the International Accounting Standards Board amended various standards primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions The amendments are intended to eliminate diversity in practice, are narrow in scope and address three specific areas of classification and measurement.
Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts The amendments provide two options for entities that issue insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 4: the overlay approach or the deferral approach.
The application of both approaches is optional and an entity is permitted to stop applying them before the new insurance contracts standard is applied.
Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property The amendment provides clarity that an entity shall transfer a property to, or from, investment property when, and only when, there is evidence of a change in use.
A change of use occurs if property meets, or ceases to meet, the definition of investment property.
A change in managements intentions for the use of a property by itself does not constitute evidence of a change in use.
IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration These amendments are intended to eliminate diversity in practice when recognising the related asset, expense or income on the derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability relating to advance consideration received or paid in a foreign currency.
108 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued e Revenue The Group generates revenue largely in the UK and Europe.
The Group operates a number of diverse businesses and accordingly applies a variety of methods for revenue recognition, based on the principles set out in IFRS 15.
Many of the contracts entered into are long-term and complex in nature, given the breadth of solutions the Group offers.
The revenue and profits recognised in any period are based on the delivery of performance obligations and an assessment of when control is transferred to the customer.
In determining the amount of revenue and profits to record, and related balance sheet items such as contract fulfilment assets, capitalisation of costs to obtain a contract, trade receivables, accrued income and deferred income to recognise in the period, management is required to form a number of key judgements and assumptions.
This includes an assessment of the costs the Group incurs to deliver the contractual commitments and whether such costs should be expensed as incurred or capitalised.
These judgements are inherently subjective and may cover future events such as the achievement of contractual milestones, performance KPIs and planned cost savings.
In addition, for certain contracts, key assumptions are made concerning contract extensions and amendments, as well as opportunities to use the contract developed systems and technologies on other similar projects.
Revenue is recognised either when the performance obligation in the contract has been performed so point in time recognition or over time as control of the performance obligation is transferred to the customer.
For all contracts, the Group determines if the arrangement with a customer creates enforceable rights and obligations.
This assessment results in certain Master Service Agreements MSAs not meeting the definition of a contract under IFRS 15 and as such the individual call-off agreements, linked to the MSA, are treated as individual contracts.
The Group enters into contracts which contain extension periods, where either the customer or both parties can choose to extend the contract or there is an automatic annual renewal, and or termination clauses that could impact the actual duration of the contract.
Judgement is applied to assess the impact that these clauses have when determining the appropriate contract term.
The term of the contract impacts both the period over which revenue from performance obligations may be recognised and the period over which contract fulfilment assets and capitalised costs to obtain a contract are expensed.
For contracts with multiple components to be delivered such as transformation, transitions and the delivery of outsourced services, management applies judgement to consider whether those promised goods and services are: i distinct to be accounted for as separate performance obligations: ii not distinct to be combined with other promised goods or services until a bundle is identified that is distinct: or iii part of a series of distinct goods and services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
At contract inception the total transaction price is estimated, being the amount to which the Group expects to be entitled and has rights to under the present contract.
This includes an assessment of any variable consideration where the Groups performance may result in additional revenues based on the achievement of agreed KPIs.
Such amounts are only included based on the expected value or the most likely outcome method, and only to the extent that it is highly probable that no revenue reversal will occur.
The transaction price does not include estimates of consideration resulting from change orders for additional goods and services unless these are agreed.
Once the total transaction price is determined, the Group allocates this to the identified performance obligations in proportion to their relative stand-alone selling prices and recognises revenue when or as those performance obligations are satisfied.
The Group infrequently sells standard products with observable stand-alone prices due to the specialised services required by clients and therefore the Group applies judgement to determine an appropriate stand alone selling price.
More frequently, the Group sells a customer bespoke solution, and in these cases the Group typically uses the expected cost plus margin or a contractually stated price approach to estimate the stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation.
The Group may offer price step downs during the life of a contract, but with no change to the underlying scope of services to be delivered.
In general, any such variable consideration, price step down or discount is included in the total transaction price to be allocated across all performance obligations unless it relates to only one performance obligation in the contract.
For each performance obligation, the Group determines if revenue will be recognised over time or at a point in time.
Where the Group recognises revenue over time for long-term contracts, this is in general due to the Group performing and the customer simultaneously receiving and consuming the benefits provided over the life of the contract.
For each performance obligation to be recognised over time, the Group applies a revenue recognition method that faithfully depicts the Groups performance in transferring control of the goods or services to the customer.
This decision requires assessment of the real nature of the goods or services that the Group has promised to transfer to the customer.
The Group applies the relevant output or input method consistently to similar performance obligations in other contracts.
When using the output method the Group recognises revenue on the basis of direct measurements of the value to the customer of the goods and services transferred to date relative to the remaining goods and services under the contract.
Where the output method is used, in particular for long-term service contracts where the series guidance is applied see below for further details, the Group often uses a method of time elapsed which requires minimal estimation.
Certain long-term contracts use output methods based upon estimation of number of users, level of service activity or fees collected.
If performance obligations in a contract do not meet the over time criteria, the Group recognises revenue at a point in time see below for further details.
The Group disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by contract type, as management believe this best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of the Groups revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.
Categories are: long-term contractual greater than two years: and short-term contractual less than two years.
Years based from service commencement date.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 109 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Long-term contractual greater than two years The Group provides a range of services in the majority of its reportable segments under customer contracts with a duration of more than two years.
The nature of contracts or performance obligations categorised within this revenue type is diverse and includes: i long-term outsourced service arrangements in the public and private sectors: and ii active software licence arrangements see definition below.
The Group considers that the services provided meet the definition of a series of distinct goods and services as they are: i substantially the same: and ii have the same pattern of transfer as the series constitutes services provided in distinct time increments e. g. daily, monthly, quarterly or annual services and therefore treats the series as one performance obligation.
Even if the underlying activities performed by the Group to satisfy a promise vary significantly throughout the day and from day to day, that fact, by itself, does not mean the distinct goods or services are not substantially the same.
For the majority of long-service contracts with customers in this category, the Group recognises revenue using the output method as it best reflects the nature in which the Group is transferring control of the goods or services to the customer.
Active software licences are those where the Group has a continuing involvement after the sale or transfer of control to the customer, which significantly affects the intellectual property to which the customer has rights.
The Group is in a majority of cases responsible for any maintenance, continuing support, updates and upgrades and accordingly the sale of the initial software is not distinct.
The Groups accounting policy for licences is discussed in more detail below.
Short-term contractual less than two years The nature of contracts or performance obligations categorised within this revenue type is diverse and includes: i short-term outsourced service arrangements in the public and private sectors: and ii software maintenance contracts.
The Group has assessed that maintenance and support i. e. on-call support, remote support for software licences is a performance obligation that can be considered capable of being distinct and separately identifiable in a contract if the customer has a passive licence.
These recurring services are substantially the same as the nature of the promise is for the Group to stand ready to perform maintenance and support when required by the customer.
Each day of standing ready is then distinct from each following day and is transferred in the same pattern to the customer.
Transactional Point in time contracts The Group delivers a range of goods or services in all reportable segments that are transactional services for which revenue is recognised at the point in time when control of the goods or services has transferred to the customer.
This may be at the point of physical delivery of goods and acceptance by a customer or when the customer obtains control of an asset or service in a contract with customer-specified acceptance criteria.
The nature of contracts or performance obligations categorised within this revenue type is diverse and includes: i provision of IT hardware goods: ii passive software licence agreements: iii commission received as agent from the sale of third-party software: and iv fees received in relation to delivery of professional services.
Passive software licences are licences which have significant stand-alone functionality and the contract does not require, and the customer does not reasonably expect, the Group to undertake activities that significantly affect the licence.
Any ongoing maintenance or support services for passive licences are likely to be separate performance obligations.
Contract modifications The Groups contracts are often amended for changes in contract specifications and requirements.
Contract modifications exist when the amendment either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.
The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and the Groups measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates, is recognised as an adjustment to revenue in one of the following ways: a. prospectively as an additional separate contract: b. prospectively as a termination of the existing contract and creation of a new contract: c. as part of the original contract using a cumulative catch up: or d. as a combination of b and c. For contracts for which the Group has decided there is a series of distinct goods and services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer where revenue is recognised over time, the modification will always be treated under either a or b : d may arise when a contract has a parttermination and a modification of the remaining performance obligations.
The facts and circumstances of any contract modification are considered individually as the types of modifications will vary contract by contract and may result in different accounting outcomes.
Judgement is applied in relation to the accounting for such modifications where the final terms or legal contracts have not been agreed prior to the period end as management need to determine if a modification has been approved and if it either creates new or changes existing enforceable rights and obligations of the parties.
Depending upon the outcome of such negotiations, the timing and amount of revenue recognised may be different in the relevant accounting periods.
Modification and amendments to contracts are undertaken via an agreed formal process.
For example, if a change in scope has been approved but the corresponding change in price is still being negotiated, management use their judgement to estimate the change to the total transaction price.
Importantly, any variable consideration is only recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that no revenue reversal will occur.
Principal versus agent The Group has arrangements with some of its clients whereby it needs to determine if it acts as a principal or an agent as more than one party is involved in providing the goods and services to the customer.
The Group acts as a principal if it controls a promised good or service before transferring that good or service to the customer.
The Group is an agent if its role is to arrange for another entity to provide the goods or services.
Factors considered in making this assessment are most notably the discretion the Group has in establishing the price for the specified good or service, whether the Group has inventory risk and whether the Group is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to deliver the service or good.
This assessment of control requires judgement in particular in relation to certain service contracts.
An example is the provision of certain recruitment and learning services where the Group may be assessed to be agent or principal dependent upon the facts and circumstances of the arrangement and the nature of the services being delivered.
Where the Group is acting as a principal, revenue is recorded on a gross basis.
Where the Group is acting as an agent, revenue is recorded at a net amount reflecting the margin earned.
110 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Licences Software licences delivered by the Group can either be right to access active or right to use passive licences.
Active licences are licences which require continuous upgrade and updates for the software to remain useful, all other licences are treated as passive licences.
The assessment of whether a licence is active or passive involves judgement.
The key determinant of whether a licence is active is whether the Group is required to undertake activities that significantly affect the licensed intellectual property or the customer has a reasonable expectation that it will do so and the customer is, therefore, exposed to positive or negative impacts resulting from those changes.
When software upgrades are sold as part of the software licence agreement i. e. software upgrades are promised to the customer, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the software upgrade is distinct from the licence i. e. a separate performance obligation.
If the upgrade is considered fundamental to the ongoing use of the software by the customer, the upgrades are not considered distinct and not accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
The Group considers for each contract that includes a separate licence performance obligation all the facts and circumstances in determining whether the licence revenue is recognised over time or at a point in time from the go live date of the licence.
Contract fulfilment assets Contract fulfilment costs are divided into: i costs that give rise to an asset: and ii costs that are expensed as incurred.
When determining the appropriate accounting treatment for such costs, the Group firstly considers any other applicable standards.
If those other standards preclude capitalisation of a particular cost, then an asset is not recognised under IFRS 15.
If other standards are not applicable to contract fulfilment costs, the Group applies the following criteria which, if met, result in capitalisation: i the costs directly relate to a contract or to a specifically identifiable anticipated contract: ii the costs generate or enhance resources of the entity that will be used in satisfying or in continuing to satisfy performance obligations in the future: and iii the costs are expected to be recovered.
The assessment of this criteria requires the application of judgement, in particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be used to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to be recoverable.
The Group regularly incurs costs to deliver its outsourcing services in a more efficient way often referred to as transformation costs.
These costs may include process mapping and design, system development, project management, hardware generally in scope of the Groups accounting policy for property, plant and equipment, software licence costs generally in scope of the Groups accounting policy for intangible assets, recruitment costs and training.
The Group has determined that, where the relevant specific criteria are met, the costs for i process mapping and design: ii system development: and iii project management are likely to qualify to be capitalised as contract fulfilment assets.
The incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer are recognised as a contract fulfilment asset if the Group expects to recover them.
The Group incurs costs such as bid costs, legal fees to draft a contract and sales commissions when it enters into a new contract.
Judgement is applied by the Group when determining what costs qualify to be capitalised in particular when considering whether these costs are incremental and whether these are expected to be recoverable.
For example, the Group considers which type of sales commissions are incremental to the cost of obtaining specific contracts and the point in time when the costs will be capitalised.
The Group has determined that the following costs may be capitalised as contract fulfilment assets: i legal fees to draft a contract once the Group has been selected as a preferred supplier for a bid : and ii sales commissions that are directly related to winning a specific contract.
Costs incurred prior to selection as preferred supplier are not capitalised but are expensed as incurred.
Utilisation, derecognition and impairment of contract fulfilment assets and capitalised costs to obtain a contract The Group utilises contract fulfilment assets to cost of sales over the expected contract period using a systematic basis that mirrors the pattern in which the Group transfers control of the service to the customer.
The utilisation charge is included within cost of sales.
Judgement is applied to determine this period, for example whether this expected period would be the contract term or a longer period such as the estimated life of the customer relationship for a particular contract if, say, renewals are expected.
A contract fulfilment asset is derecognised either when it is disposed of or when no further economic benefits are expected to flow from its use or disposal.
Management is required to determine the recoverability of contract related assets within property, plant and equipment, intangible assets as well as contract fulfilment assets, accrued income and trade receivables.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether or not the contract fulfilment assets are impaired by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the remaining amount of consideration that the Group expects to receive less the costs that relate to providing services under the relevant contract.
In determining the estimated amount of consideration, the Group uses the same principles as it does to determine the contract transaction price, except that any constraints used to reduce the transaction price will be removed for the impairment test.
Where the relevant contracts are demonstrating marginal profitability or other indicators of impairment, judgement is required in ascertaining whether or not the future economic benefits from these contracts are sufficient to recover these assets.
In performing this impairment assessment, management is required to make an assessment of the costs to complete the contract.
The ability to accurately forecast such costs involves estimates around cost savings to be achieved over time, anticipated profitability of the contract, as well as future performance against any contract-specific KPIs that could trigger variable consideration, or service credits.
Where a contract is anticipated to make a loss, these judgements are also relevant in determining whether or not an onerous contract provision is required and how this is to be measured.
Deferred and accrued income The Groups customer contracts include a diverse range of payment schedules dependent upon the nature and type of goods and services being provided.
The Group often agrees payment schedules at the inception of long-term contracts under which it receives payments throughout the term of the contracts.
These payment schedules may include performance-based payments or progress payments as well as regular monthly or quarterly payments for ongoing service delivery.
Payments for transactional goods and services may be at delivery date, in arrears or part payment in advance.
Where payments made are greater than the revenue recognised at the period end date, the Group recognises a deferred income contract liability for this difference.
Where payments made are less than the revenue recognised at the period end date, the Group recognises an accrued income contract asset for this difference.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that accrued income assets may be impaired by considering whether the revenue remains highly probable that no revenue reversal will occur.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 111 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Onerous contracts The Group reviews its long-term contracts to ensure that the expected economic benefits to be received are in excess of the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
The unavoidable costs are the lower of the net costs of termination or the costs of fulfilment of the contractual obligations.
The Group recognises the excess of the unavoidable costs over economic benefits due to be received as an onerous contract provision.
f Foreign currency translation The functional and presentation currency of Capita plc and its UK subsidiaries is the pound sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
The functional currencies of overseas operations include the euro, Indian rupee, South African rand, and the US dollar.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the overseas operations are retranslated into the presentation currency of Capita plc at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rate for the year.
The exchange differences arising on the re-translation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
The Group has elected not to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date as permitted by IFRS 1 as at 31 December 2004.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition.
g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over 50 years.
Leasehold improvements period of the lease.
Plant and equipment 3 to 10 years.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset retired.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year in which the item is derecognised.
h Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction commenced on or after 1 January 2009. i Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is passed to the Group.
Goodwill Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set-off directly against reserves and does not get recycled through the income statement.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units which are expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in these circumstances is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Any difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent company.
Prior to the adoption of IAS 27 Amended, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
112 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued j Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those identified in a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
In the case of capitalised software development costs, research expenditure is written off to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the same way unless and until the Group is satisfied as to the technical, commercial and financial viability of individual projects.
Where this condition is satisfied, the development expenditure is capitalised and amortised over the period during which the Group is expected to benefit.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
There were no indefinite-lived assets in 2018 or 2017.
Amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives and this expense is taken to the income statement through the administrative expenses line item.
Intangible assets with finite lives are only tested for impairment, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level, where there is an indicator of impairment.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
Intangible assets identified and recognised since transition to IFRS are profiled, on a straight-line basis, as follows: Intangible assets acquired in business combinations brands are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 10 years I. P. software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 20 years contracts and committed sales are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 1.5 and 15 years client lists and relationships are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 4 and 10 years.
Intangible assets purchased or internally capitalised capitalised software development costs are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 15 years software and licences are amortised over their useful economic lives of between 5 and 20 years other intangibles are amortised over their useful economic lives of 3 to 15 years.
k Recoverable amount of non-current assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a non-current asset may be impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
l Investments and other financial assets Classification Applicable from 1 January 2018, the Group classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories: those to be measured subsequently at fair value either through OCI or through profit or loss : and those to be measured at amortised cost.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
For investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading, this will depend on whether the Group has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes.
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade date that is, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Measurement At initial recognition, the group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss FVPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss.
Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest.
Debt instruments Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Groups business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset.
There are three measurement categories into which the Group classifies its debt instruments: Amortised cost: assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows, where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at amortised cost.
Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in other gains losses together with foreign exchange gains and losses.
Impairment losses are presented as a separate line item in the statement of profit or loss.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 113 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued FVOCI: assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI.
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses, which are recognised in profit or loss.
When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss and recognised in other gains losses.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other gains losses, and impairment expenses are presented as a separate line item in the statement of profit or loss.
FVPL: assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL.
A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVPL is recognised in profit or loss and presented net within other gains losses in the period in which it arises.
Equity instruments The Group subsequently measures all equity investments at fair value.
Where the Groups management has elected to present fair value gains and losses on equity investments in OCI, there is no subsequent reclassification of fair value gains and losses to profit or loss following the derecognition of the investment.
Dividends from such investments continue to be recognised in profit or loss as other income when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at FVPL are recognised in other gains losses in the statement of profit or loss as applicable.
Impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses on equity investments measured at FVOCI are not reported separately from other changes in fair value.
Impairment From 1 January 2018, the Group assesses, on a forward-looking basis, the expected credit losses associated with its debt instruments carried at amortised cost and FVOCI.
The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
Accounting policies applied until 31 December 2017 The Group has applied IFRS 9 retrospectively, but has elected not to restate comparative information.
As a result, the comparative information provided continues to be accounted for in accordance with the Groups previous accounting policy, as shown below: All investments are initially recorded at their fair value.
Subsequently they are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Investment loans are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at their fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised directly in equity.
When the investment is disposed of, the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement disclosed in investment income include financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through the income statement.
Financial assets may be designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss if the assets are part of a group of financial assets which are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management strategy.
m Trade and other receivables The Group assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit losses associated with its receivables carried at amortised cost.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, resulting in trade receivables recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts based on expected credit losses.
n Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of 3 months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Management has reviewed the classification of certain line items in the 2017 cash flow and identified adjustments required.
Accordingly, the cash flow is re-presented and restated but with no change to the net movement in cash and cash equivalents.
o Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except for instruments designated in fair value hedge relationships.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
p Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
The Group provides, on a discounted basis, for the future rent expense and related cost of leasehold property net of estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
114 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued q Pension schemes The Group maintains a number of defined contribution pension schemes and for these schemes the Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement as the related service is provided.
In addition, the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme and participates in a number of other defined benefit pension schemes, all of which require contributions to be made to separate trustee-administered funds.
The costs of providing benefits under these schemes are determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Re-measurements of the net defined benefit asset liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income and reflected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassified to the income statement.
The Group determines the net interest expense income on the net defined benefit asset liability for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then net defined benefit asset liability, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit asset liability during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Current and past service costs are charged to operating profit while the net interest cost is included within net finance costs.
In respect of 3 of the defined benefit pension schemes in which the Group participates, the Group accounts for its legal and constructive obligation over the period of its participation which is for a fixed period only.
The liability on the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes comprises the total for each scheme, or group of schemes, of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
r Financial instruments Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption amount is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The principal derivative instruments used by the Group are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that a derivative contract is entered into, and they are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The accounting for subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedges : hedges of a particular risk associated with the cash flows of recognised assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedges.
At inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the economic relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, including whether changes in the cash flows of the hedging instruments are expected to offset changes in the cash flows of hedged items.
The Group documents its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking its hedge transactions.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments designated in hedge relationships are disclosed in note 26.
Movements in the hedging reserve in shareholders equity are shown in note 26.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months: it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
In relation to fair value hedges for example, receive fixed and pay floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
In relation to cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve within equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement, within other gains losses.
When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Group generally designates only the change in fair value of the forward contract related to the spot component as the hedging instrument.
Gains or losses relating to the effective portion of the change in the spot component of the forward contracts are recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve within equity.
The change in the forward element of the contract that relates to the hedged item aligned forward element is recognised the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
For some hedge relationships, the Group may designate the full change in fair value of the forward contract including forward points as the hedging instrument.
In such cases, the gains or losses relating to the effective portion of the change in fair value of the entire forward contract are recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve within equity.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 115 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, as follows: Where the hedged item subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset, both the deferred hedging gains and losses and the deferred forward points, if any, are included within the initial cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in the income statement, since the hedged item affects the income statement.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment, are accounted for in a way similar to cash flow hedges.
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income and foreign currency translation reserves in equity while any gains or losses relating to any ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recorded in equity are reclassified to the income statement.
The Group uses loans and foreign exchange derivatives as hedges of its exposures to foreign exchange risks on its investments in foreign subsidiaries.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement and are presented as finance cost excluded from adjusted profits.
Put option arrangements Put options on the shares of subsidiaries held by non-controlling interest shareholders that oblige the Group to purchase those shares for cash or another financial asset are recognised as a financial liability for the present value of the option exercise price.
When the financial liability is recognised initially, that amount is reclassified from equity, and subsequently measured at fair value.
Changes in the carrying amount are recognised in equity.
On exercise of the put options, the Group will treat the transaction as the purchase of the non-controlling interest and will apply acquisition accounting as described in i Business Combinations and Goodwill Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests.
s Leasing The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date and is concerned with whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent upon the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
In assessing whether a lease is an operating lease or a finance lease, judgement needs to be exercised in determining whether or not substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are held by the Group.
Given that finance leases are recognised as liabilities, and operating leases are not, this can have a significant effect on the reported financial position of the Group.
Group as a lessee: Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where a lease is for an asset sold by the Group to the lessor, the two transactions are accounted for separately.
If the sale-and-leaseback results in a finance lease, then any gain on the sale is deferred and recognised as income over the lease term.
If the leaseback is classified as an operating lease, then any gain is recognised immediately if the sale-and-leaseback terms are at fair value.
If the sale-and-leaseback are not deemed to be at fair value then the accounting is as follows: If the selling price is at or below fair value, then the gain or loss is recognised immediately.
However, if a loss is compensated for by future rentals at belowmarket price, then the loss is deferred and amortised over the period in which the asset is expected to be used.
If the selling price exceeds fair value, then that excess is deferred and amortised over the period for which the asset is expected to be used.
If the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying amount of the asset at the date of the transaction, then that difference is recognised immediately as a loss on the sale.
As noted above the assessment of whether the sale-and-leaseback transactions are at fair value may require significant judgement in addition to that applied to determine whether the lease is an operating or finance lease, and the resulting accounting can have a significant effect on the reported results of the Group.
Group as a lessor: leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Rental income arising from operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
t Income tax Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill: except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
116 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
u Share-based payments The Group operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest as a result of not meeting performance or service conditions.
Where all service and performance vesting conditions have been met, the awards are treated as vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, as market conditions have been reflected in the fair value of the equity instruments.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over the fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
v New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB have issued the following standards, amendments and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
These are effective for annual periods beginning on or after the date indicated: Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs and Interpretations IFRICs Endorsed by the EU: IFRS 9 Amendments: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 1 January 2019 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 Not yet endorsed by the EU: IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2021 IAS 28 Amendments: Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2019 Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20152017 Cycle 1 January 2019 IAS 19 Amendments: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement 1 January 2019 Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards 1 January 2020 IFRS 3 Business Combinations 1 January 2020 Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8: Definition of Material 1 January 2020 IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016, replacing IAS 17 Leases IAS 17, and other relevant current guidance.
IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases.
IFRS 16 will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 with early adoption permitted for entities that apply IFRS 15.
Under the transition rules, the Group will apply IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the standard recognised in retained earnings on 1 January 2019.
The Group has elected to apply the short-term lease exemption and low-value items exemption for all lease classes.
The Group has also elected to apply the practical expedient to grandfather the assessment of which arrangements are leases.
It will apply IFRS 16 only to contracts that have been classified as leases as at 31 December 2018.
Contracts that have not been identified as leases under IAS 17 and IFRS 4 were not reassessed for whether there is a lease.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group held a significant number of operating leases for which the future minimum lease payments amount to 736.0m as disclosed in note 24.
As demonstrated below, the standard will have a material impact for the Group as it introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires the recognition of assets and liabilities for all leases.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 117 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The estimated impact for the Group of adopting IFRS 16 is as follows: Year ended Range of impact Expected adoption impact 31 December 2018 on IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019 Consolidated balance sheet Footnote m m m Right-of-use asset a 565575 565575 Finance lease receivable b 1416 1416 Total assets 4,094 579591 4,6734,685 Finance lease liability c 640650 640650 Total financial liabilities 3,990 640650 4,6304,640 Retained deficit d 1,135 23 25 1,158 1,160 Total equity 103 23 25 7880 Expected adoption impact 2019 Consolidated income statement Footnote m EBITDA e 130135 Operating profit e 1921 Finance costs e 2830 Profit before tax e 810 a. Right-of-use asset: total assets will be impacted due to recognition of right-of-use assets on 1 January 2019.
The right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the adoption date less any lease incentives received at or before the adoption date reclassified on the opening balance sheet.
For a selection of material long-term leases, the Group will apply the modified retrospective method one approach, as if IFRS 16 had always been applied using the incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application.
The right-of-use assets will be subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method to the earlier of the end of the useful life or the end of the lease term.
Finance lease receivable: total assets will be impacted by recognition of finance lease receivables where the Group acts as an intermediate lessor and has classified the sub lease as a finance lease because the sub-lease is for a substantial amount of the remaining term of the head lease.
c. Finance lease liability: total financial liabilities will be impacted due to the recognition of finance lease liabilities.
The lease liability will be initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the adoption date, discounted using the Groups incremental borrowing rate.
The lease payments comprise fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments such as service charges and variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the minimum index or rate at commencement date.
The lease liability will be measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
For leases with termination and extension options, the Group has made an assessment whether the option is reasonably certain to be exercised.
d. Retained deficit: Retained deficit change represents the expected cumulative effect of applying the standard.
This is due to applying the modified retrospective method one approach for a selection of properties, as explained in note a. above.
e. Income statement: Upon adopting IFRS 16, the rental costs currently recognised in operating profit will be replaced by depreciation on the right-of-use asset and net finance costs on the finance lease liability.
As the asset is depreciated straight line over the lease term and the interest is accrued using the effective interest rate method, while EBITDA will improve, the profit will be reduced in the earlier years as a result of applying IFRS 16.
The above impacts are expected to increase the leverage ratio by 0.6 times.
However the impact on the Groups adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA covenant ratio is expected to be neutral to positive as the Group covenants are on frozen GAAP, with the exception of the US private placement notes.
The US private placement notes covenant test includes the income statement impact of IFRS 16, but not the balance sheet.
Due to the changes in assets, liabilities, income and expenses that will be recognised as a result of the application of IFRS 16, there are consequent IAS 12 income tax differences that arise on transitional adjustment.
The tax impact is expected to be 4m5m, resulting in an increase in deferred tax assets.
The total cash outflow for lease payments will not change, however the payments related to the principal liability will be presented as cash outflows from financing activities, as opposed to the current treatment as cash outflow from operating activities.
The Group will continue to implement and refine procedures and processes to apply the new requirements of IFRS16.
As a result of this ongoing work, it is possible that there may be some changes to the adoption impact above prior to the 30 June 2019 results being issued.
However, at this time these are not expected to be material.
Due to the Group transformation plan, which includes a consolidation of Capitas properties, the Groups lease portfolio is expected to materially change over the next few years.
Any changes to the lease portfolio will be accounted for when transacted.
The costs arising from the property rationalisation programme will be excluded from adjusted profit in line with the current Group policy.
118 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax The items below are excluded from the adjusted results as the Board has concluded that it is appropriate to do so.
These amounts are or have been material, and require separate disclosure in order for the users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business.
The tax impact of the operating profit adjusting items is a 41.5m credit 31 December 2017: 52.2m credit.
The tax impact of the profit before tax adjusting items is a 20.4m credit 31 December 2017: 51.8m credit.
These items are discussed further below: Operating profit Profit before tax 2018 2017 2018 2017 Notes m m m m Reported 34.9 420.1 272.6 513.1 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 14 143.5 138.3 143.5 138.3 Impairment of goodwill 15 33.8 551.6 33.8 551.6 Impairment of other non-current assets 13 63.5 63.5 Impairment of Life & Pensions assets 13 61.2 61.2 Impairment of loans and investments 1.6 9.0 1.6 9.0 Litigation and claims 1.8 30.0 1.8 30.0 GMP and retirement age equalisation 32 5.4 5.4 Net finance costs 9 18.8 2.1 Contingent consideration movements and acquisition costs in 2017 5.0 0.8 5.0 0.8 Business exit trading 4 16.8 16.8 16.8 16.7 Business exit non-trading expenses 4 29.7 13.7 29.7 13.7 Business exit gain loss on disposals 4 309.7 30.6 Significant restructuring 110.0 17.9 110.0 17.9 Adjusted 335.3 447.5 282.1 383.1 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets: the Group carries on its balance sheet significant balances related to acquired intangible assets.
The amortisation of these assets, and any impairment charges, are reported separately as they distort the in-year trading results, and performance of the acquired businesses is assessed through the underlying operational results.
In 2018 the Group amortised 86.7m of which 4.9m belongs to disposed entities and is included in business exit.
In addition the Group recognised an impairment charge relating to acquired intangible assets of 61.7m in relation to the Swiss business in Customer Management.
Impairment of goodwill: the Group carries on its balance sheet significant balances related to acquired goodwill.
Goodwill is subject to annual impairment testing, and any impairment charges are reported separately as they distort the in-year trading results and IFRS does not permit the recognition of any increases in value of acquisitions, potentially leading to an unbalanced picture being shown over time.
Refer to note 15 for further detail on these impairments.
Impairment of other non-current assets: as part of its year-end close process in 2017, Capita undertook a comprehensive review of its tangible and intangible assets.
Following the review, management took a decision to impair, as at 31 December 2017, a number of assets relating to specific programmes resulting from changes in client and Capita strategy in the second half of 2017.
These impairments have no adverse impact on future cash or trading.
Non-current assets amounting to 63.5m 35.2m property, plant and equipment see note 13: 28.3m capitalised software intangible assets see note 14 were written off and excluded from adjusted profit as the assets have no further value to the Group.
Impairment of life and pensions assets: the Groups life and pension business developed a platform to support an existing life and pensions contract, but which could provide services to multiple clients in the future.
In 2017, the Group identified there was no longer a market for this platform and accordingly the carrying value of this and associated assets were written off as at 31 December 2017.
The impact on the financial statements is a non-underlying charge of 61.2m 54.7m property, plant and equipment see note 13: 1.0m capitalised software intangible assets see note 14: 5.5m contract fulfilment asset see note 17 representing the write-off of the non-current assets.
The charge was excluded from adjusted profit as the assets had no further value to the Group.
Impairment of loans and investments: the Group fully impaired an investment in the year, and a historical loan and investment in the prior year.
The charge is reported separately due to its nature and to be consistent to prior years.
In 2018 the Group impaired 1.6m of investments.
Litigation and claims: the significant litigation costs provided in 2017 relate to two claims in respect of: 1. a contract within the Groups Real Estate and Infrastructure business notified to the Group during 2017.
The related contract began in 2007: and 2. a contract within the Groups Employee Benefits business where more information on the progress of the claim became apparent.
The related contract was delivered from 2009.
The amount provided in respect of these two claims has been recognised in non-underlying due to their age and significance.
The gain of 1.8m in 2018 arises from a loss of derecognition of an insurance asset of 3.7m see note 18, off-set by a release of 5.5m in respect of the above provisions recognised in 2017.
The original claim to which the asset related was excluded from adjusted profit due to its nature and size.
GMP and retirement age equalisation: the High Court issued a judgment in October 2018 which concluded that pension schemes should be amended to equalise pension benefits for men and women in relation to guaranteed minimum pension GMP benefits.
This will impact many pension schemes including the Groups defined benefit schemes.
The Group is working with the Trustees and their advisers to understand the extent to which the judgment crystallises additional liabilities.
For the purpose of these financial statements, we have estimated that this will increase the reported liability of the pension schemes by 4.4m and this is reflected as a past service cost in 2018 and thus taken through the income statement.
In addition, there is a past service cost of 1m in relation to the correction of a historical retirement age equalisation issue for a small group of members in the main scheme.
The amounts provided in respect of GMP and retirement age equalisation are excluded from adjusted profit because they relate to past service costs and therefore not reflective of in-year performance.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 119 3 Adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax continued Net finance costs: non-underlying net finance costs includes the movements in the mark to market valuation of certain financial instruments, and in 2018, the make-whole costs paid to noteholders on early repayment of principal on the Private Placement loan notes from the proceeds of the rights issue and disposals.
Refer to note 9 for further details.
Contingent consideration movements and acquisition-related costs: in accordance with IFRS 3, movements in the fair value of contingent consideration on acquisitions go through the Group income statement.
These are reported separately because performance of the acquired businesses is assessed through the underlying operational results and such a charge credit movement would distort underlying results.
Acquisition-related costs incurred with acquisitions are not included in the assessment of business performance which is based on the adjusted results.
IFRS requires certain costs incurred in connection with acquired businesses to be recorded within the Group income statement.
These charges are not included in the internal assessment of business performance which as above is based on the underlying operational results.
These charges are therefore separately disclosed as specific items.
Business exits: the trading result of businesses exited, or in the process of being exited, and the gain or loss on disposals, are disclosed outside the adjusted results.
The 2017 results have been restated for the trading of those businesses exited, or in the process of being exited, in 2018 to enable comparability of the adjusted results.
Significant restructuring: in January 2018, the Group announced a multi-year transformation plan.
In the period to 31 December 2018, a charge of 110.0m 2017: 17.9m was recognised in relation to the cost of the transformation plan, and restructuring costs relating to Capitas previously announced cost reduction plan.
The costs include the following sub-categories: Cost to realise cost savings and efficiencies from the transformation plan 55m : including significant reductions in overheads via support function restructuring, and the elimination of duplicate roles.
These costs also include engaging the Groups property expertise to rationalise and increase the utilisation of Capitas property estate, in metro centres and regionally.
As the Group continues to rationalise the property estate cost associated with onerous lease commitments and dilapidation liabilities will be captured and presented as part of the transformation adjustments.
Professional fees 31m : incurred to support the delivery of the future strategy, redesign of the Groups operating model, re-ignite sales growth and increasing the proportion of centrally controlled spend, consolidating the supplier base and leveraging the Groups scale.
Finance transformation 6m : improving the Groups financial reporting systems, processes and controls, through increasing standardisation, automation and the quality and availability of data.
The Group is investing in an upgrade of its financial system and increasing the use of offshoring and shared services.
This programme is titled Smarter Faster Finance and all costs associated with this programme are recorded separately, excluding any costs capitalised as part of the investment and the ongoing depreciation and amortisation of such assets.
Previously announced cost-reduction plan 18m : restructuring costs related to the Groups cost-reduction plan announced in prior periods, but did not meet the criteria for provision at the end of 2017.
4 Business exit 2018 business exits Business exits are businesses that have been exited during the year or are in the process of being disposed of.
None of these business exits meet the definition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5, which requires disclosure and comparatives to be restated where the relative size of a disposal or business closure is significant, which is normally understood to mean a reported segment.
Accordingly, the separate presentation described below does not fall within the requirements of IFRS 5 concerning discontinued operations.
However, to enable a like-for-like comparison of adjusted results, the 2017 comparatives have been restated to include 2018 business exits.
During the period, the Group disposed of five businesses and exited one business Capita Specialist Insurance Solutions, Projen which was held for sale as at 31 December 2017, Medicals Direct Group, Supplier Assessment Services including Constructionline, ParkingEye and REI Health.
Non-trading disposal Trading Cash Non-cash Total Total Income statement impact m m m m m Revenue 50.8 50.8 Cost of sales 20.2 20.2 Gross profit 30.6 30.6 Administrative expenses 13.8 1.0 28.7 29.7 43.5 Operating profit loss 16.8 1.0 28.7 29.7 12.9 Net finance costs Gain on business disposal 367.4 57.7 309.7 309.7 Profit before tax 16.8 366.4 86.4 280.0 296.8 Taxation 3.1 23.4 23.4 26.5 Profit after tax 13.7 343.0 86.4 256.6 270.3 Trading revenue and costs represent the current period trading performance of those businesses up to the point of being disposed or exited.
The 2017 comparative trading operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 was 17.8m, representing a full year of trading.
Non-trading administrative expenses comprise 1.0m of closure costs, 24.3m of goodwill impairment, 4.9m of acquired intangible amortisation and 0.5m release of provisions.
There are no cumulative income or expenses included in other comprehensive income relating to the disposal group.
The gain on disposal of 309.7m arises from the disposal of net assets of 69.0m for 400.7m consideration and costs of disposal of 22.0m.
Cash proceeds of 400.7m net of cash disposed amounted to 389.5m.
120 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Business exit continued Cash Non-cash Total Gain on business disposal m m m Property, plant and equipment 19.9 19.9 Intangible assets 12.4 12.4 Goodwill 50.9 50.9 Trade and other receivables 8.5 8.5 Deferred tax asset 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 26.8 26.8 Deferred income 4.6 4.6 Income tax payable 1.5 1.5 Deferred tax liability 0.9 0.9 Provisions 0.2 0.2 Cash disposed of 11.2 11.2 Total net assets disposed of 11.2 57.8 69.0 Cash purchase consideration received 400.7 400.7 Costs of disposal paid and accrued 22.0 22.0 Proceeds, less costs, on disposal 378.7 378.7 Gain on business disposal 367.5 57.8 309.7 Cash Cash proceeds in 2018 m Cash purchase consideration received 400.7 Settlement of receivables sold as part of the disposal 19.0 Total consideration received 419.7 Cost of disposal paid in the year 11.9 Net proceeds received in year 407.8 Business exit cash flows Business disposed of during 2018 generated operating cash outflows of 6.6m.
2017 business exits Business exits are businesses that have been exited during the year or in the process of being disposed of.
Except for the disposal of Capita Asset Services disclosed separately in note 5 Discontinued Operations, none of the Groups business exits meet the definition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5, which requires disclosure and comparatives to be restated where the relative size of a disposal or business closure is significant, which is normally understood to mean a reported segment.
In the Annual Report 2016, we disclosed that the Group intended to dispose of the majority of its specialist recruitment business which no longer fit the Groups business strategy.
As at 31 December 2016, this business did not meet the criteria to be treated as held for sale.
In the Annual Report 2017, the disposal of the specialist recruitment business had completed along with the closure of a number of small businesses, and their results are all included within business exits for the period.
At 31 December 2017, the Group was in an active process to sell a non-core property business Projen and treated this as a disposal group held for sale at that date.
During 2018, the Company disposed of five businesses and exited one business Capita Specialist Insurance Solutions, Projen which was held for sale as at 31 December 2017, Medicals Direct Group, Supplier Assessment Services including Constructionline, ParkingEye and REI Health.
The 2017 income statement below has been restated to include the results of these disposed businesses.
The total loss before tax in 2017 before restatement was 45.4m and the operating loss in 2017 before restatement was 14.7m.
Non-trading disposal Trading Cash Non-cash Total Total Income statement impact m m m m m Revenue 142.8 142.8 Cost of sales 88.1 88.1 Gross profit 54.7 54.7 Administrative expenses 37.9 4.7 9.0 13.7 51.6 Operating profit 16.8 4.7 9.0 13.7 3.1 Net finance costs 0.1 0.1 Loss on business disposal 16.3 46.9 30.6 30.6 Profit loss before tax 16.7 11.6 55.9 44.3 27.6 Taxation 2.2 2.2 Profit loss after tax 14.5 11.6 55.9 44.3 29.8 Trading revenue and costs represent the current year trading performance of those businesses being exited or disposed in 2017 and 2018 as noted above.
Non-trading disposal and closure costs include the costs of exiting businesses and stranded costs such as property lease and redundancy payments.
The loss on disposal of 30.6m arises from the disposal, in 2017, of net assets of 47.0m for 17.0m cash consideration and costs of disposal of 0.6m.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 121 4 Business exit continued Non-trading administrative expenses comprise 4.7m of disposal and closure costs and 9.0m of accelerated depreciation, amortisation and impairments.
Balance Sheet disposal group At 31 December 2017, the Group was in an active process to sell a non-core property business and has treated this as a disposal group held for sale at this date.
2017 m Intangibles 1.5 Trade and other receivables 4.4 Assets held for sale 5.9 Trade and other payables 1.4 Liabilities held for sale 1.4 Business exit cash flows Businesses disposed of and held for sale during 2017 generated operating cash inflows, prior to disposal, of 2.5m.
5 Discontinued operations The Group disposed of the majority of the Capita Asset Services Division in November 2017.
The disposal met the definition of a discontinued operation as stipulated by IFRS 5.
The following presentation, and that included in other notes, follows the requirements of IFRS 5.
2018 2017 Trading Non-trading Total Trading Non-trading Total Discontinued operations: m m m m m m Revenue 261.9 261.9 Cost of sales 94.0 94.0 Gross profit 167.9 167.9 Administrative expenses 5.6 5.6 120.3 66.2 186.5 Operating profit loss 5.6 5.6 47.6 66.2 18.6 Net finance costs 0.1 0.8 0.9 Profit on disposal 445.4 445.4 Profit before tax 5.6 5.6 47.7 380.0 427.7 Income tax expense 10.6 0.7 11.3 Profit for the period 5.6 5.6 37.1 379.3 416.4 The 2018 non-trading credit to administrative expenses consisted of 5.6m provision releases.
The 2017 non-trading administrative expense consisted of amortisation of acquired intangibles of 0.6m and Capita Asset Services indemnity and settlement provision of 65.6m.
Non-trading net finance costs included fair value movements on held for sale assets.
As part of the sale it was agreed with the Trustees of the Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme that a cash contribution of 17.0m would be made to the Scheme.
This was paid in January 2018 refer to note 32.
In addition the Group paid 82.2m in 2018 for costs relating to the disposal, all of which were fully provided for.
The earnings per share impact from discontinued operations is 0.38p 2017: 38.10p on basic earnings per share and 0.38p 2017: 38.10p on diluted earnings per share.
122 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6 Segmental information The Groups operations are managed separately according to the nature of the services provided, with each segment representing a strategic business division offering a different package of client outcomes across the markets the Group serves.
A description of the service provision for each segment can be found in the strategic report on pages 2133.
As announced in the Annual Report 2017, the Group introduced a new simplified divisional structure in 2018 around five markets: Software, People Solutions, Customer Management, Government Services and IT & Networks.
Capita has also formed a sixth division, Specialist Services, which includes those businesses which either a are not within Capita's key growth markets and or b are at an early phase in their development but may be scaled up in the future.
These businesses are mostly stand-alone operations and are being managed on a portfolio basis in order to maximise value.
These divisions are supported by a common set of Group capabilities and functions, and are reported separately as 'Group trading and central services'.
Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
The Board believes the changes improve accountability and transparency across the Group.
Before eliminating sales between business units on consolidation, the Group accounts for sales between business units as if they were to a third party at market rates.
The tables below present revenue, trading result and certain asset and liability information for the Groups business segments for the years 2018 and 2017.
Alloperational divisions are continuing and the 2017 segmental information has been restated for the impact of businesses exited or held for sale in 2018 with total adjusted revenue reduced by 76.1m and profit before tax reduced by 17.8m.
The length of the contract is calculated from the start of the service commencement date.
The figures represent the aggregate amount of currently contracted transaction price allocated to the performance obligations that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied.
Revenue expected to be recognised upon satisfaction of these performance obligations is as follows: Group trading People Customer Government IT & Specialist and central Order book Software Solutions Management Services Networks Services functions Total 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m m Long-term contractual 559.6 715.3 2,011.8 2,187.5 380.4 1,239.1 7,093.7 Short-term contractual 2.3 2.3 Total 559.6 715.3 2,011.8 2,187.5 380.4 1,241.4 7,096.0 Group trading People Customer Government IT & Specialist and central Order book Software Solutions Management Services Networks Services functions Total 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m m Long-term contractual 543.4 786.5 1,843.6 2,660.6 508.3 1,833.7 3.8 8,179.9 Short-term contractual 11.1 11.1 Total 543.4 786.5 1,843.6 2,660.6 508.3 1,844.8 3.8 8,191.0 The table below shows the time bands of the expected timing of revenue to be recognised on long-term contractual at 31 December 2018: Group trading People Customer Government IT & Specialist and central Time bands of long-term contractual Software Solutions Management Services Networks Services functions Total in order book m m m m m m m m 1 year 331.3 222.9 602.8 425.3 169.3 336.0 2,087.6 15 years 196.7 451.3 1,400.1 1,432.7 167.7 683.0 4,331.5 5 years 31.6 41.1 8.9 329.5 43.4 220.1 674.6 Total 559.6 715.3 2,011.8 2,187.5 380.4 1,239.1 7,093.7 The order book represents the consideration to which the Group will be entitled to receive from the customers when the Group satisfies the remaining performance obligations in the contracts.
However, the total revenue that will be earned by the Group will also include non-contracted volumetric revenue, new wins, scope changes and anticipated contract extensions.
These elements have been excluded from the figures in the tables above as they are not contracted.
In addition, revenue from contract extensions is also excluded in the order book unless they are pre-priced extensions whereby the Group has a legal binding obligation to deliver the performance obligations during the extension period.
The total revenue related to pre-priced extensions that has been included in the tables above amounted to 508.0m 2017: 502.0m.
The amounts presented do not include orders for which neither party has performed and each party has the unilateral right to terminate a wholly unperformed contract without compensating the other party.
Of the 7.1bn 2017: 8.2bn revenue to be earned on long-term contractual, 4.2bn 2017: 4.9bn relates to material contracts to the Group.
This amount excludes revenue that will be derived from frameworks transactional point in time contracts, non-contracted volumetric revenue, non-contracted scope changes and future unforeseen volume changes from these material contracts, which together are expected to contribute an additional 2.2bn 2017: 1.8bn of revenue to the Group over the life of these contracts.
2018 2017 United Non-United United Non-United Kingdom Kingdom Total Kingdom Kingdom Total m m m m m m Revenue 3,609.7 308.7 3,918.4 3,902.2 332.4 4,234.6 Non-current assets 2,040.3 51.4 2,091.7 2,168.0 143.8 2,311.8 126 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Operating profit This is stated after charging crediting : 2018 2017 Notes m m Depreciation 59.1 63.5 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 6.1 Amortisation of capitalised purchased intangible assets 27.8 19.9 1 Loss profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 11.4 4.5 Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense 114.7 121.1 Foreign exchange differences 9.6 5.6 Contract fulfilment asset utilisation, impairment and derecognition 17 127.5 89.3 Property commercialisation 2.7 Contract termination gains losses 6.7 6.4 Gain on early termination of the Prudential and Marsh contracts 15.2 Defence Infrastructure Organisation contract 22.0 Supplier settlement 9.2 The table above includes items only within adjusted operating profit.
Specific items excluded from adjusted operating profit are detailed in note 3.
1 The 2017 disclosure of a loss on disposal of 0.5m has been restated to a gain on disposal of 4.5m.
This does not have an impact on the reported profit for 2017.
Adjusted operating profit includes the following items: Contract fulfilment asset utilisation, impairment and derecognition: the Group undertook a comprehensive review of its major contracts to identify indicators of impairment of contract fulfilment assets.
Following this review, management provided against costs capitalised as contract fulfilment assets of 22.2m 31 December 2017: 14.1m within cost of sales.
Refer to note 17 for further details of the review.
Contract termination gains: customer contracts usually contain provisions to compensate the Group for exit costs and future profits in the event of early termination.
In-year customer contract terminations for customer convenience have led to associated exit fees paid to Capita of 6.7m 2017: 6.4m being recorded as income in-year.
These are included within adjusted operating profit because these amounts are payable to the Group under the terms of the respective contracts being terminated.
Prudential, Marsh, and Defence Infrastructure Organisation contracts: contract terminations arising in the normal course of business and which result in the disposal of a contract fulfilment asset and or a true-up of revenue recognised, will also be included within the adjusted results and separately disclosed if considered material: In 2018, two contracts in the Specialist Services division ended: i the administration of Prudentials life and pensions business transferred to a new supplier resulting in a net 6.0m benefit from the true-up of revenue recognised and the disposal of related assets including 9.3m included in the loss on disposal of 11.4m of property, plant and equipment and intangibles : and ii our general insurance contract with Marsh ended resulting in a 9.2m benefit from the true-up of revenue recognised and disposal of related assets.
In 2017, we concluded discussions with the Ministry of Defence in relation to the the Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO contract, which is expected to end in 2019.
The 2017 results for the Government Services division included a 22.0m benefit from the re-shaping of the DIO contract.
Supplier settlement: the IT & Networks division benefited from a one-off supplier settlement of nil 2017: 9.2m.
Minimum lease payments: see note 24 for further details.
2018 2017 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates in respect of: m m Audit and audit-related services The audit of the Company and Group financial statements 3.2 3.8 The audit of the financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 1.8 1.2 Total audit and audit-related services 5.0 5.0 Non-audit services Taxation compliance services 0.1 Services related to corporate finance transactions 0.1 Other assurance services 1.6 0.8 Total non-audit services 1.6 1.0 Total audit and non-audit services 6.6 6.0 The amounts included in the above table relate to fees payable to KPMG LLP and its associates.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 127 8 Employee benefits expense 2018 2017 Notes m m Wages and salaries 1,702.1 1,899.5 Social security costs 175.0 194.2 Pension costs 32 112.6 122.3 Share-based payments 28 3.4 2.9 1,993.1 2,218.9 The expenses above reflect total operations.
Employee benefits expense for continuing operations is 1,993.1m 2017: 2,098.6m.
The aggregate amount of Directors remuneration salary, bonus and benefits is shown on page 92 of the remuneration report: As shown in note 33 related-party transactions, the aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on exercise of share options was 0.0m 2017: 0.7m.
The remuneration of the highest paid Director was 2,014,209 2017: 1,125,510.
Payments have been made to a defined contribution pension scheme on behalf of three Directors 2017: five Directors.
For the highest paid Director, pension contributions of 36,250 2017: 21,310 were made.
2018 2017 The average number of employees during the year was made up as follows: Number Number Sales 1,733 1,825 Administration 7,930 8,148 Operations 56,239 59,486 65,902 69,459 The average number of employees above reflects continuing operations and excludes employees relating to discontinued operations.
9 Net finance costs 2018 2017 Notes m m Interest receivable 2.6 0.7 1 Private placement loan notes 40.4 37.7 Fixed rate interest rate swaps 2.6 Cash flow hedges recycled to the income statement 26 2.5 Bank loans and overdrafts 8.5 15.6 Net interest cost on defined benefit pension schemes 32 9.4 9.2 Interest payable 55.8 65.1 Net finance costs included in adjusted profit 53.2 64.4 Fixed rate interest rate swaps mark-to-market 0.5 Discount unwind on public sector subsidiary partnership payment 26 1.7 1.8 Fair value movement in trade investments 0.6 Non-designated foreign exchange forward contracts mark-to-market 5.1 3.4 2 Interest payable business exit 4 0.1 3 Fair value hedge ineffectiveness 26 3.9 0.6 4 Private placement loan notes prepayments costs 15.9 Net finance costs excluded from adjusted profit 18.8 2.0 Total net finance costs 72.0 62.4 1 Private placement loan notes include US private placement loan notes, euro fixed rate bearer notes and a Schuldschein loan.
Included in private placement loan notes interest is 7.0m of additional coupon interest at a rate of 0.75% per annum.
Refer to note 23 for further details.
2 Interest payable included within business exit trading.
Refer to note 4 for further details.
3 Fair value hedge ineffectiveness includes the costs of the early termination of fair value hedges related to the early repayment of private placement loan notes, ineffectiveness from changes in currency basis, and the movement in mark-to-market valuations on hedge derivatives from the perceived change in the credit worthiness of the counterparties to those instruments.
4 Private placement loan notes prepayment costs includes make-whole costs paid to noteholders on early repayment of principal.
The early repayment was made from the proceeds of the rights issue and disposals and further detail is provided in note 23.
128 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Income tax The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 are set out below.
The income tax credit of 0.9m on reported profit resulted in a tax rate of 0.3% 2017: income tax credit of 14.0m and tax rate 2.7 %.
The reported tax rate will generally vary from the adjusted tax rate year-on-year due to the items excluded from adjusted profit in a period, for example non-taxable profits losses on disposals or non-deductible impairment of certain acquired intangible assets.
The income tax charge of 27.4m on adjusted profit resulted in an adjusted tax rate of 9.7% 2017: income tax charge of 65.8m and adjusted tax rate 17.2%.
This is a reduction year on year as a result of deferred tax credits arising from certain subsidiaries adopting IFRS 15 later and true-ups to filed tax returns, together with an unremitted earnings charge, as detailed further below.
It is expected that the adjusted tax rate will return to a level closer to the UK corporation tax rate of 19% in 2019.
2018 2017 Consolidated income statement m m Current income tax Current income tax charge credit 11.1 35.3 Adjustment in respect of prior years 7.0 10.7 Deferred income tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 5.6 58.1 Adjustment in respect of prior years 10.6 1.9 0.9 14.0 2018 2017 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income m m Income tax on cash flow hedges 0.1 0.4 Deferred income tax movement in relation to actuarial losses on defined benefit plans 22.9 8.8 22.8 8.4 2018 2017 Consolidated statement of changes in equity m m Deferred income tax movement in relation to share based payment 0.4 0.4 The reconciliation between tax expense credit and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the UK corporation tax rate for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 2018 2017 Footnote m m Profit loss before tax 272.6 513.1 Notional debit credit at UK corporation tax rate of 19.00% 2017: 19.25% 51.8 98.8 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of prior years a 7.0 10.7 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of prior years b 10.6 1.9 Non-deductible expenses adjusted c 5.3 4.2 Non-deductible expenses business exit c 4.2 2.9 Non-deductible expenses specific items c 1.0 5.6 Profit loss on disposal d 35.4 6.0 Difference in rate recognition of temporary differences 4.6 9.9 Non-deductible intangible impairment e 11.0 102.0 Tax provided on unremitted earnings 12.8 Attributable to different rates in overseas jurisdictions 0.1 3.9 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax f 27.3 14.7 At the effective tax rate of 0.3 % 2017: 2.7% 0.9 14.0 Total tax credit expense reported in the income statement 0.9 14.0 a.
The 7.0m prior year credit adjustment includes: i a 10.5m credit relating to a reduction in the Group's uncertain tax positions see below, ii a 10.6m debit relating to adjustments which have a corresponding prior-year deferred income tax impact, and iii a 7.1m credit relating to true-ups to filed tax returns 2017: the 10.7m prior year adjustment credit includes: i a 5.5m credit relating to increased losses available for group relief surrenders arising from acquisitions and disposals in previous years but identified during the period, and ii a 5.2m credit relating to adjustments which have a corresponding prior year deferred income tax impact and true ups of positions to filed tax returns.
Credits 2017: debits which have a corresponding prior year current income tax impact and true ups of temporary differences.
c. Adjusted: higher in 2018 mainly due to non-qualifying depreciation.
Business exit: relates to costs associated with disposal of businesses detailed in note 4.
Specific items: relates to contingent consideration movements 2017: litigation and claims detailed in note 3. d. Relates to the application of the UK tax exemption on substantial shareholdings to relevant disposals.
e. Relates to the intangible asset impairments as detailed further in notes 3, 4 and 14. f. Relates to the decrease 2017: increase in unrecognised deferred tax on losses.
The 2017 consolidated financial statements were prepared under IFRS 15, however the deferred tax positions were calculated on the basis of when subsidiaries would adopt IFRS 15 for statutory financial statements purposes.
Subsequent to the finalisation of the 2017 consolidated financial statements, certain subsidiaries adopted IFRS 15 later resulting in a different loss utilisation profile and associated deferred tax asset recognition position.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 129 10 Income tax continued Deferred income tax Deferred income tax as at 31 December relates to the following: Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Deferred tax liabilities Contract fulfilment assets 21.0 41.1 20.1 3.2 Unremitted earnings 12.8 12.8 Fair value adjustments on acquisition 14.8 39.7 25.0 26.2 48.6 80.8 32.3 29.4 Deferred tax assets Accelerated capital allowances 34.9 34.9 15.6 Deferred income 4.7 63.1 58.6 165.4 Share based payments 1.1 0.4 0.3 0.1 Pension schemes liability 28.1 55.8 7.7 0.5 Provisions 8.6 13.2 1.3 2.2 Losses available for offset against future taxable income 100.6 60.5 40.0 57.6 178.0 227.9 27.3 89.4 Net deferred tax asset 129.4 147.1 Deferred income tax credit expense 5.0 60.0 The UK corporation tax rate remained at 19% in 2018 and will decrease further to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax balances have been adjusted to reflect this change.
Deferred tax has been recognised based on the timing of entity adoption of IFRS 15, interaction of the new loss relief rules, and to the extent that the Group has sufficient future taxable profits against which to offset the temporary differences when they unwind.
The recognition for 2018 has been based on the base-case financial forecasts mentioned in the viability statement section of the strategic report.
These forecasts provide evidence of sufficient future taxable profits to enable the utilisation of the recognised deferred tax assets.
The Group has unrecognised tax losses of 206.0m 2017: 348.1m and other temporary differences of 31.0m 2017: 34.5m that are available for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses or other temporary differences arose, but have not been recognised as their recoverability is uncertain.
These unrecognised tax losses and other temporary differences totalling 237.0m 2017: 382.6m are made up as follows: 161.0m 2017: 344.1m relates to the UK and has no time expiry.
These losses will be subject to recently enacted UK tax loss relief legislation which could result in restricted utilisation in the future.
76.0m 2017: 38.5m relates to various overseas jurisdictions, some of which are being subject to specific loss restriction rules but have no time expiry.
85.9m 2017: 101.0m of the unrecognised tax losses were incurred by companies acquired by the Group and therefore not as a result of the Groups trading performance.
Dividends received from subsidiaries on or after 1 July 2009 are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which the subsidiaries operate.
The gross temporary differences of those subsidiaries affected by such potential taxes is 64.2m 2017: 47.0m.
A deferred income tax liability of 12.8m 2017: nil has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of those subsidiaries affected by such potential taxes as the Group is able to control the timing of reversal and it is anticipating dividends to be distributed.
Uncertain tax positions The Group files income tax returns in many jurisdictions.
Various tax authorities are currently examining the Groups income tax returns.
Tax returns contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations and the resolution of tax positions, through negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through litigation, can take several years to complete.
Tax uncertainties are assessed throughout the year and specifically at the yearend with any associated provisions recognised considering the specific circumstances of each risk, including the merits of technical aspects, previous experience with tax authorities, recent tax law and if relevant, external specialist advice.
In the current period the Group has released 10.5m of provisions in respect of uncertain tax positions relating to overseas tax risks which are no longer considered likely to arise.
The release is reflected within the current income tax prior year adjustment.
While it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome in some cases, the Group does not currently anticipate that there will be any material impact on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the next financial year.
Capita's approach to taxation Capita has an open and positive working relationship with HMRC, has a designated customer relationship manager, and is committed to prompt disclosure and transparency in all dealings with HMRC and overseas tax authorities.
The Group does not have a complex tax structure, nor does it pursue aggressive tax avoidance activities.
The Group has a low-risk rating from HMRC.
The Group has operations in a number of countries outside the UK.
All Capita operations in non-UK jurisdictions are trading operations and pay the appropriate local taxes on these activities.
Further detail, regarding the tax strategy, can be found on the Policies and Principles area of the Capita website capita.
130 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11 Earnings loss per share Basic earnings loss per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings loss per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year ended 31 December 2017 has been restated to reflect the rights issue completed in the period see note 27.
The adjustment to the weighted average number of ordinary shares reflects the bonus element of the rights issue.
The following reflects the earnings and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings loss per share computations: Restated As previously reported 2018 2017 2017 Continuing Total Continuing Total Continuing Total operations operations operations operations operations operations m m m m m m 1 Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 239.7 239.7 305.9 305.9 303.6 303.6 Total profit loss attributable to shareholders 263.4 269.0 533.5 117.1 533.5 117.1 1 The adjusted profit attributable to shareholders from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2017, previously reported has been restated to reflect change in presentation during the year as well as the businesses that have been disposed of during the year ended 31 December 2018 see notes 3 and 4.
As previously Restated reported 2018 2017 2017 m m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares excluding trust and treasury shares for basic earnings per share 1,463.9 1,092.8 665.7 Dilutive potential ordinary shares: Employee share options 18.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares excluding trust and treasury shares adjusted for the effect of dilution 1,482.2 1,092.8 665.7 At 31 December 2017, 3,395,030 options were excluded from the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares calculation because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Under IAS 33-Earnings per Share, potential ordinary shares are treated as dilutive when, and only when, their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share or increase loss per share from continuing operations.
The Group made a loss in the prior year from continuing operations hence the diluted earnings loss per share for each component of continuing and total operations needs to be the same amount as the basic earnings loss per share.
There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of completion of these financial statements.
The earnings per share figures are calculated based on adjusted earnings attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent company of 239.7m 2017: 305.9m and reported earnings of 269.0m 2017: loss of 117.1m.
They are both included to provide a better understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
Restated As previously reported 2018 2017 2017 Continuing Total Continuing Total Continuing Total operations operations operations operations operations operations p p p p p p Basic earnings loss per share adjusted 16.37 16.37 27.99 27.99 45.61 45.61 reported 17.99 18.37 48.82 10.72 80.14 17.59 Diluted earnings loss per share adjusted 16.17 16.17 27.99 27.99 45.61 45.61 reported 17.77 18.15 48.82 10.72 80.14 17.59 12 Dividends paid and proposed 2018 2017 m m Declared and paid during the year Ordinary shares equity : Final for 2017 paid: nil per share 2016: 21.2p per share 137.1 Interim for 2018 paid: nil per share 2017: 11.1p per share 73.9 Dividends paid to shareholders 211.0 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 12.2 5.6 Total dividends paid 12.2 216.6 Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability at 31 December Ordinary shares equity : Final for 2018: nil per share 2017: nil per share Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 131 13 Property, plant and equipment Leasehold improvements, Plant and land and machinery Total buildings m m m Cost As at 1 January 2017 105.0 420.3 525.3 Subsidiaries acquired 0.1 0.1 0.2 Disposal of business 15.8 98.2 114.0 Additions 5.8 63.1 68.9 Disposals included in adjusted profit 3.6 10.7 14.3 Disposals excluded from adjusted profit 7.3 91.9 99.2 Asset retirements 7.6 75.2 82.8 Re-class to intangible assets net 13.1 13.1 Exchange movement 0.5 0.6 1.1 As at 31 December 2017 77.1 195.0 272.1 Disposal of business 22.8 22.8 Additions 33.1 56.3 89.4 Disposals included in adjusted profit 0.6 19.7 20.3 Asset retirements 5.9 33.1 39.0 Exchange movement 0.7 0.7 As at 31 December 2018 103.0 175.7 278.7 Depreciation and impairment: As at 1 January 2017 38.8 91.8 130.6 Depreciation charged during the year 11.1 58.9 70.0 Impairment excluded from adjusted profit 10.0 10.0 Disposal of business 6.9 32.9 39.8 Disposals included in adjusted profit 1.4 7.0 8.4 Disposals excluded from adjusted profit 1.5 17.8 19.3 Asset retirements 7.6 75.2 82.8 Re-class to intangible assets 8.0 8.0 Exchange movement 0.2 0.3 0.5 As at 31 December 2017 32.7 20.1 52.8 Depreciation charged during the year 9.7 50.4 60.1 Impairment included in adjusted profit 6.1 6.1 Disposal of business 2.9 2.9 Disposals included in adjusted profit 0.6 10.8 11.4 Asset retirements 5.9 33.1 39.0 Exchange movement 0.2 0.4 0.6 As at 31 December 2018 41.8 23.3 65.1 Net book value As at 1 January 2017 66.2 328.5 394.7 As at 31 December 2017 44.4 174.9 219.3 As at 31 December 2018 61.2 152.4 213.6 The net book value of plant and machinery includes an amount of nil 2017: 0.2m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Depreciation charged during the year includes nil 2017: 0.2m of accelerated depreciation in relation to businesses disposed of.
In 2017 a comprehensive review was undertaken as part of the year-end close process and a number of assets relating to specific programmes resulting from changes in client and Capita strategy in the second half of 2017 were fully written down.
Property, plant and equipment amounting to 89.9m was fully written down and excluded from the adjusted profit for the year.
The charge is shown above within impairment excluded from adjusted profit 10.0m and disposals excluded from adjusted profit 79.9m, being cost 99.2m less accumulated depreciation 19.3m.
The write-downs relate to life and pensions assets 54.7m and other non-current assets 35.2m as detailed in note 3.
132 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Property, plant and equipment continued The table below reconciles the 2017 disposals and impairments of non-current assets between notes 3, 14 and 17.
Goodwill impairments: The Group recognised an impairment charge relating to goodwill of 33.8m 2017: 551.6m.
Intangible assets acquired in business combination impairments: Customer Management saw a weaker performance in Europe, which was impacted by lower profits in Switzerland.
The Group recognised an impairment charge relating to intangible assets acquired in business combinations of 61.7m in relation to the Swiss business in Customer Management.
The recoverable amount of the intangible asset is 12.2m, based on its value in use and a pre-tax discount rate of 11.9%.
2017: In 2017, 14.0m of intangibles acquired in business combinations in relation to the Insurance, Life and Pensions businesses in Specialist Services were identified as impaired.
134 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Intangible assets continued Intangible assets capitalised impairment and disposals: As part of its year-end close process, Capita undertook a review of its tangible and intangible assets, resulting in nil 2017: 29.3m resulting from changes in client and Capita strategy impairments.
The 2017 charge is shown in the table within impairment excluded from adjusted profit 4.0m and disposals excluded from adjusted profit 25.3m, being cost 40.3m less accumulated depreciation 15.0m.
This impairment charge relates to life and pension assets 1.0m and other non-current assets 28.3m.
The table in note 13 reconciles the disposals and impairments of non-current assets between notes 3, 13, 14 and 17.
15 Goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to Cash-Generating Units CGUs, for impairment testing purposes, on the basis of the expected benefit that will accrue to the individual CGU through synergies realised from the acquisitions and integration with the Group as a whole.
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill can be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis.
The enterprise value of each CGU is dependent on the successful implementation of the transformation plan described earlier in the strategic report.
The objective of the new strategy announced in April 2018 is to become a more focused and predicable business with improved returns, stronger client relationships and sustainable free cash flow.
The Group has put in place a new organisational structure, which comprises six divisions: Software, People Solutions, Customer Management, Government Services, IT & Networks, and Specialist Services.
Following this re-organisation, the Group has reviewed the historical assessment of CGUs and the allocation of goodwill.
Reflecting the way management now exercises oversight and monitors the Groups performance, the Board concluded that the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored is at the divisional level for three divisions, and at a sub-divisional level for the other three divisions, and goodwill has been reallocated to these new CGUs or groups of CGUs.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group has 9 CGUs or groups of CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill.
The opening goodwill balance has been reallocated for comparable purposes.
As the transformation plan progresses, the Board will continue to assess the level at which management exercise oversight and monitors the Groups performance to ensure the allocation of goodwill to CGUs remains appropriate.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of Cash-Generating Units The following table shows the allocation of goodwill to groups of CGUs.
Government Services IT & Networks People Customer Central Local Network Specialist Software Solutions Management Government Government IT Services Services Services Total CGU m m m m m m m m m 1 January 2018 275.6 203.5 138.6 8.7 33.8 117.7 108.5 481.5 1,367.9 Additions Fair value adjustment Disposals and business exits 75.2 75.2 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 Impairment 33.8 33.8 31 December 2018 275.6 203.5 138.7 8.7 117.7 108.5 406.3 1,259.0 Specialist Regulated Services is not included in the table above as goodwill and acquired intangibles were fully impaired in 2017, and therefore an impairment test is not required.
The impairment test The Group tests intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that any of these assets may be impaired.
The Groups impairment test compares the carrying value of each CGU with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of fair value less cost of disposal and value in use.
As the Group continues to implement the Group-wide transformation plan it has been determined that for 2018, fair value less costs of disposal will generate the higher recoverable amount.
Fair value less costs of disposal have been estimated using discounted cash flows.
The fair value measurement was categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on the inputs in the valuation technique used.
In undertaking the annual impairment review, the Directors have considered both external and internal sources of information, and any observable indications that may suggest that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired.
As set out in divisional performance in the strategic report, the local government market for large BPO contracts is declining with a significant drop-off in the number and size of opportunities coming to market and existing clients choosing to end contracts early and take services back in house.
This decline is being driven by fiscal pressures, the expectation that this will provide a more flexible cost and delivery model, but also by an ideological shift away from outsourcing by some council leaderships.
The local government BPO market, which we anticipated reducing, declined at an accelerated rate during the year.
Southampton, Sheffield and Birmingham City Councils have notified us of their intention to end contracts with us ahead of their contracted-end dates.
Barnet Council has agreed to take a small number of services back in House.
Capita is committed to the local government market and is working closely with all our Council partners to agree and manage a smooth transfer of services back to council management.
The deterioration in the market opportunities and continued challenges were monitored throughout the year and crystallised in the final quarter of 2018 leading to the recognition of the impairment charges as set out in this note.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 135 15 Goodwill continued The key inputs to the calculations are described below, including changes in market conditions.
Forecast cash flows In the first half of 2018, the Board approved a five-year strategic plan covering the period from 2018 to 2022.
As the five-year strategic plan was approved prior to the finalisation of the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, it was used to derive cash flow forecasts for the purposes of the impairment test for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The bottom-up business planning process completed at the end of 2018, reviewed years two and three 2019 and 2020 of the strategic plan in detail.
The resulting business plan for 2019 and 2020 was approved by the Board.
For the 2018 impairment test, the 2019 and 2020 business plan was used to derive the cash flow forecasts for the purpose of the impairment test.
The cash flows are adjusted to exclude working capital movements as the corresponding balances are not included in the carrying amount.
The cash flows also include forecast capital expenditure and restructuring, as well as an allocation the costs of central functions.
The Board considered an appropriate methodology to apply in allocating the costs of the central functions, which is a key sensitivity.
The forecast 2021 EBITDA measures have been used as these represent a steady state forecast for the Group and an appropriate approximation of the attention and focus of the central functions.
As the transformation plan delivers, the Board will assess any changes required to ensure the allocation methodology continues to reflect the efforts of the central functions.
The forecasts are cash flow projections for 2021 and 2022, represent managements assessment of future trends in relevant industries and have been based on data from both external and internal sources.
The long-term growth rate is based on inflation forecasts by recognised bodies and this has been applied to both 2023 and the terminal period.
Discount rates Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the latest market assumptions for the risk-free rate, the equity risk premium and the net cost of debt, which are all based on publicly available external sources.
The table below represents the pre-tax discount rates used on the cash flows.
The 2017 rates have not been reported, due to the CGU restructure and the adoption of fair value less costs of disposal.
Pre-tax discount rate Division % Software 12.7 People Solutions 12.1 Customer Management 11.9 Central Government 11.4 Local Government 16.8 IT Services 11.1 Network Services 11.1 Specialist Regulated Services 11.5 Specialist Services 11.8 Sensitivity analysis The impairment testing as described is reliant on the accuracy of managements forecasts and the assumptions that underlie them and also on the selection of the discount and growth rates to be applied.
In order to gauge the sensitivity of the result to a change in any one, or combination of the assumptions that underlie the model, a number of scenarios have been run to identify the range of reasonably possible alternatives and measure which CGUs are the most susceptible to an impairment should the assumptions used be varied.
This sensitivity analysis is only applicable to the CGUs that have goodwill.
The table below shows how the enterprise value would be impacted with all other variables being equal by an increase in discount rate of 1%, or if the business plan was missed by 10% for each of the five years or a decrease of 1% in the long-term growth rate for the Group in total and each of the CGUs.
We have also considered the impact of all of the scenarios together and disclosed the impact on impairment in the final column.
Increase in 2018 1% increase in Long-term growth rate Combination impairment using discount rate Miss targets by 10% decrease by 1% sensitivity combination scenario Software 66.1 73.3 48.5 168.7 People Solutions 77.5 78.4 56.2 189.4 Customer Management 43.8 31.6 34.2 96.0 Central Government 60.4 48.2 47.5 137.0 IT Services 19.5 17.7 13.9 47.5 5.0 Network Services 19.7 20.0 14.4 49.4 Specialist Services 88.1 96.4 63.6 222.2 Total 375.1 365.6 278.3 910.2 5.0 Management continue to monitor closely the performance of all CGUs and consider the impact of any changes to the key assumptions.
In conclusion, other than the local government impairment in the year, management believe there is no reasonably possible change in the underlying assumptions that would result in a further significant impairment charge in the consolidated income statement.
136 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Business combinations 2018 acquisitions In October 2018, the Group acquired three operational contact centres as part of extending and expanding an existing customer management contract with Europes largest integrated telecommunications provider.
The consideration was 3 and the acquisition accounting resulted in an intangible asset of 2.7m being recognised.
During the year, the Group settled 11.1m of deferred consideration and 10.4m of contingent consideration payments with regard to previous acquisitions, all of which had been accrued.
The fair value exercise has been completed on a provisional basis for acquisitions made in 2018.
The Group will complete this review in 2019, though an adjustment to the carrying value is likely to be insignificant to the acquisition.
In the current year, there were no revisions made to fair value adjustments that had been determined provisionally at the immediately preceding balance sheet date.
Contingent consideration In respect of 2018 acquisitions, there is no contingent consideration.
For all historic acquisitions, the range of the additional consideration payment is estimated to be between nil and 24.7m.
Contingent consideration has been calculated based on the Groups expectation of what it will pay in relation to the postacquisition performance of the acquired entities by weighting the probability of a range of payments to give an estimate of the final obligation.
2017 acquisitions The Group made a number of acquisitions in 2017 which are shown in aggregate.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired are disclosed in the table below: Fair value to Group recognised on acquisition m Property, plant and equipment 0.2 Intangible assets 12.4 Trade and other receivables due in less than one year 7.5 Corporation tax 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents 4.5 Trade and other payables excluding accruals due in less than one year 2.9 Accruals due in less than one year 2.6 Deferred tax 2.2 Net assets 16.6 Goodwill arising on acquisition 15.1 31.7 Discharged by: Cash 23.3 Deferred consideration 2.0 Contingent consideration accrued 6.4 31.7 In all cases, 100% of the ordinary share capital was acquired.
The companies acquired have been mainly in the areas of IT & Networks, Travel and Events, Customer Management and Software which complement or extend the Groups existing skill sets and provide opportunities for growth into these markets.
In addition, during the year the Group settled 10.8m of deferred consideration and 11.7m of contingent consideration payments with regard to previous acquisitions, all of which had been accrued.
Where this can be determined, the acquired subsidiaries contributed 1.8m to the profit before tax of the Group.
If these acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2017, Groups revenue would have been an estimated 4,237.7m and Group loss before tax would have been an estimated 512.8m.
In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments that arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017.
During the year, some of the acquired businesses have been completely integrated into the existing business of the Group and therefore their post-acquisition performance cannot be determined.
Goodwill has arisen on the acquisitions because the fair value of the acquired assets was lower than the consideration paid: the goodwill represents the value to the Group that can be driven from these underlying assets over the life of the acquired businesses, particularly from synergies, and the capabilities of the acquired workforce.
The total amount of goodwill recognised in the period that is expected to be deductible for tax purposes is nil 2016: nil.
The fair value exercise was completed on a provisional basis for acquisitions made in 2017.
In total, the effect of revisions made to fair value adjustments in 2017 that had been determined provisionally at the immediately preceding balance sheet date increased goodwill by 1.2m.
Contingent consideration In respect of the acquisitions made in 2017, the Group has agreed to pay the vendors additional consideration dependent on the achievement of performance targets in the periods post acquisition.
These performance periods are of up to 3 years in duration and will be settled in cash on their payment date on achieving the relevant targets.
The Group has included 6.4m as contingent consideration related to the additional consideration, which represents its fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration has been calculated based on the Groups expectation of what it will pay in relation to the post-acquisition performance of the acquired entities by weighting the probability of a range of payments to give an estimate of the final obligation.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 137 17 Contract fulfilment assets Total m At 1 January 2017 240.6 Additions 101.2 Impairment 14.1 Derecognition 9.9 Utilised during the year 65.3 At 31 December 2017 252.5 Additions 113.8 Transfers from current contract fulfilment assets 25.4 Impairment 22.2 Derecognition 17.4 Utilised during the year 87.9 At 31 December 2018 264.2 Impairment In preparing these consolidated financial statements, management undertook a review to identify indicators of impairment of contract fulfilment assets.
Management determined whether or not the contract fulfilment assets and capitalised costs to obtain a contract were impaired by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the remaining amount of consideration that the Group expects to receive less the costs that relate to providing services under the relevant contract.
In line with the Groups accounting policy, as set out in note 2, if a contract exhibited marginal profitability or other indicators of impairment, judgement was applied to ascertain whether or not the future economic benefits from these contracts were sufficient to recover these assets.
Following this review, contract fulfilment asset provisions for impairment of 22.2m 2017: 14.1m were identified relating to assets capitalised in the year and recognised within adjusted cost of sales.
Derecognition A contract fulfilment asset is derecognised either when it is disposed of or when no further economic benefits are expected to flow from its use or disposal.
In 2018, 17.4m 2017: 9.9m of contract fulfilment assets were derecognised as the related contracts, Prudential and Marsh, were terminated in the year and the Group had no further use for the assets.
Of the assets derecognised in the prior year, 5.5m was included as an adjustment to operating profit and related to the write-off of the carrying value of a platform developed by the Groups life and pension business.
The Groups transformation plan identified that there was no longer a market for this platform.
138 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Financial assets 2018 2017 Current financial assets m m 1 Deferred consideration 3.0 2 Insurance asset recoverable 1.3 5.0 3 Held for trading assets 0.4 Cash flow hedges 5.0 4.0 4 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 9.3 72.2 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 2.1 4.1 5 Interest rate swaps in relation to GBP denominated loan notes 0.5 18.2 88.7 2018 2017 Non-current financial assets m m 1 Deferred consideration 2.2 Investments 6.1 3 Held for trading assets 2.7 4.2 Cash flow hedges 3.3 3.8 4 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 93.8 113.1 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 1.8 3.6 5 Interest rate swaps in relation to GBP denominated loan notes 1.4 5.4 109.1 132.3 1 The deferred consideration relates to the sale of the Health business which was classified as held for sale in 2015, and sold in 2016.
The amount has been fully recovered.
2 The insurance asset recoverable relates to amounts where the Group has virtual certainty of receiving a contribution in respect of a litigation or insurance claim.
3 Held for trading assets comprise investments in unlisted ordinary shares and fund assets.
The unlisted ordinary shares, for which there is no immediately identifiable market and have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate, are carried at cost less impairment.
The fund assets, for which there are market values, are recorded at fair value as at 31 December 2018.
4 The cross-currency swaps hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange movements and interest rate movements on the Groups USD denominated private placement loan notes.
The changes in the fair value of the underlying private placement loan notes arising from movements in interest and foreign exchange rates are offset by the changes in the fair value of the cross-currency swaps recognised above.
5 The interest rate swaps hedge changes in the fair value of the Groups GBP denominated fixed rate private placement loan notes.
The change in the fair value of the underlying loan notes arising from changes in interest rates is equivalent to the fair value of the interest rate swaps recognised above.
Details of the interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and cash flow hedges are provided in note 26.
19 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 Current m m Trade receivables 435.6 379.5 Other receivables 29.4 26.9 Contract fulfilment assets 11.1 39.4 Accrued income 182.9 207.7 Prepayments 112.7 122.3 771.7 775.8 2018 2017 Non-current m m Other receivables 2.3 0.6 Prepayments 23.9 27.4 26.2 28.0 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-day terms.
Consistent with prior years, the Group made use of non-recourse trade receivable financing arrangements provided to it by a number of its relationship banks.
Therewas a net balance of nil sold on these arrangements as at 31 December 2018 2017: 110.0m as the Group phased-out the use of non-recourse trade receivables financing.
As these trade receivables have been sold without recourse, the Group has derecognised them in the above table.
At 31 December 2018, we raised a provision of 11.2m 2017: 8.3m in relation to a loss allowance made against receivables.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 139 19 Trade and other receivables continued Movements in the loss allowance made against receivables were as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 8.3 11.5 Utilised 1.4 1.5 Provided in the year 9.5 6.9 Released in the year 2.5 8.3 Business disposal closure 2.7 1.4 Provisions acquired 1.1 At 31 December 11.2 8.3 At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired was as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor More than Total impaired 03 months 46 months 712 months 12 months m m m m m m 2018 435.6 326.1 103.6 5.9 2017 379.5 252.1 121.5 5.9 The Group monitors the level of trade receivables on a monthly basis, continually assessing the risk of default by any counterparty.
Current contract fulfilment assets are costs directly related to a contract or to a specifically identifiable anticipated contract which will be used in satisfying performance obligations in the next 12 months from the balance sheet date.
The Groups accrued income balances solely relate to revenue from contracts with customers.
Movements in the accrued income balances were driven by transactions entered into by the Group within the normal course of business in the year, other than 5.1m impairment arising on a contract in Government Services 2017: nil.
20 Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 957.5 921.7 Overdrafts 314.8 443.3 642.7 478.4 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
The fair value of cash is the same as the carrying amount above.
Included in cash at bank and in hand is nil 2017: 14.0m held in a 45-day notice of withdrawal money market fund.
Included in Overdrafts are balances totalling 280.3m 2017: 387.7m held in the Groups notional cash pools under which the bank has the right of offset against Cash at bank see note 26.
21 Trade and other payables 2018 2017 Current m m Trade payables 214.3 274.9 Other payables 10.7 36.5 Other taxes and social security 131.2 150.8 Accruals 312.5 293.0 668.7 755.2 2018 2017 Non-current m m Other payables 1.6 0.1 Accruals 10.0 16.9 11.6 17.0 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are settled within terms agreed with suppliers.
140 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Deferred income 2018 2017 Current m m Current 980.3 1,201.2 980.3 1,201.2 2018 2017 Non-current m m Non-current 277.3 314.0 277.3 314.0 The Groups deferred income balances solely relate to revenue from contracts with customers.
Revenue recognised in the reporting period that was included in the deferred income balance at the beginning of the period was 1,220.8m 2017: 1,381.0m.
Movements in the deferred income balances were driven by transactions entered into by the Group within the normal course of business in the year, other than the accelerated revenue recognised of 10.0m and 38.4m relating to the ending of our general insurance contract with Marsh and our life and pensions contract with the Prudential respectively 2017: 22.0m from the re-shaping of the DIO contract.
23 Financial liabilities 2018 2017 Current Notes m m Contingent consideration 12.1 Deferred consideration 1.3 11.1 Public sector subsidiary partnership payment 9.4 9.4 Put option of non-controlling interests 107.3 6.8 Obligations under finance leases 24 0.2 Other loan notes 0.3 Term loan 100.0 Cash flow hedges 1.2 1.6 Non-designated foreign exchange forward contracts 1.4 0.3 1 Private placement loan notes 82.2 224.1 303.1 265.6 Non-current Contingent consideration 8.9 12.5 Deferred consideration 0.7 2.0 Public sector subsidiary partnership payment 34.1 41.8 Put options of non-controlling interests 11.2 115.6 1 Private placement loan notes 1,025.8 1,439.9 Other loan notes 0.3 Term loan 100.0 Cash flow hedges 1.1 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 3.5 8.5 1,084.2 1,721.7 1 Private placement loan notes include US private placement loan notes, euro fixed rate bearer notes and a Schuldschein loan.
Included in financial liabilities is an amount of 1,108.0m 2017: 1,664.0m which represents the carrying value of the Groups private placement loan notes which should be considered in conjunction with the carrying value of currency and interest rate swaps of: 105.0m 2017: 190.7m included in financial assets: and 3.5m 2017: 8.5m included in financial liabilities.
This gives an effective liability of 1,006.5m 2017: 1,481.8m.
In connection with the Groups transformation strategy and rights issue which were announced on 23 April 2018, Capita agreed amendments to its US private placement loan notes including: the introduction of an allowable minimum basket of 50m of both subsidiary indebtedness and permitted liens, in line with the corresponding baskets under Capitas other financing arrangements: the carve-out of up to 100m worth of bonds and guarantees from the financial covenant definition of indebtedness: certain restructuring costs to be excluded from the calculation of the covenant test, and certain assets to be excluded from the restrictions on disposals: the flexibility to increase the leverage covenant under the terms of the private placement notes from 3.0x to 3.5x if Capita would otherwise breach the covenant as a result of first-year losses from significant new contract wins as a result of the adoption of IFRS 15: Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 141 23 Financial liabilities continued a requirement to offer to prepay as follows until a total of 520m the Prepayment Target has been repaid when combined with any repayments of US private placement loan notes, with original maturity dates of July and September 2018 on the scheduled maturity date : the US private placement loan notes with scheduled maturity dates in July and September 2018, plus a make-whole payment: from the proceeds of the rights issue, 150m of principal of the other US private placement loan notes, plus a make-whole payment: from 50% of the net proceeds arising from non-core asset disposals, a pro-rata prepayment of principal across remaining US private placement notes, plus a make-whole payment: and.
a temporary restriction on the prepayment of certain financial indebtedness and reductions in facility amounts, and a coupon premium of 0.75% until the Fall 1 Away Criteria have been met.
In connection with a waiver allowing consent for the disposal of Parking Eye, in November 2018, Capita agreed amendments to its euro fixed rate bearer notes and Schuldschein loan agreement including: a waiver of the limitation on disposals to allow the disposal of Parking Eye: a temporary restriction of the prepayment of certain financial indebtedness and reductions in facility amounts: a coupon premium of 0.75% until the Fall Away Criteria have been met: and an offer to prepay principal from the net proceeds of the Parking Eye disposal, equivalent pro-rata to the prepayment element of the Prepayment Target offered to the noteholders to the US private placement loan notes.
1 The Fall Away Criteria include a one-time test of leverage being less than 1.5x at the 31 December 2018, 30 June 2019 and 31 December 2019 testing periods on a look-forward basis, and the achievement of the Prepayment Target.
The repayments and prepayments made pursuant to the above mentioned agreements with its lenders are set out in the below table.
US private Event Date of payment prepayment placement loan notes Euro fixed rate bearer notes & Schuldschein loan m equivalent at date m equivalent at date of offer to prepay of offer to prepay Rights issue June 2018 150.0 Loan notes that matured in 2018 June, July and September 2018 222.0 Disposal of Supplier Assessment Services August 2018 70.2 Disposal of Parking Eye November 2018 77.8 48.2 Total payment prepayment 520.0 48.2 On 19 November 2018 the Prepayment Target was formally agreed as having been achieved with the noteholders to the US private placement notes.
Theleverage ratio at 31 December 2018 is 1.2x.
The Company reasonably expects the leverage ratio to be less than 1.5x at 30 June 2019 and 31 December 2019.
As a consequence, the Company expects to make formal statements to the noteholders of the US private placements loan notes on 14 March 2019 stating the same, at which point the Fall Away Criteria will be met.
At this point the temporary conditions referred to above including the 0.75% coupon premium will cease to apply.
The Group incurred financing arrangement fees on the amendments to the US private placement loans during the year amounting to 3.7m which has been included in the carrying value of the private placement loan notes new issue and amendment fees: 2017: 2.1m.
In addition the Group incurred 13.3m of associated prepayment costs and 2.5m of other financing costs which have been included in adjusting finance costs 2017: nil.
Issue and amendment costs are spread over the term of the loan notes.
The unamortised balance of issue and amendment costs at the year-end totalled 3.7m 2017: 3.4m.
The Group's bank term loan is a 100m five-year term loan maturing in May 2019 which bears interest at floating rates linked to Libor.
The obligations under finance leases are secured on the assets being financed.
The term loan, US private placement loan notes, euro fixed rate bearer notes, and Schuldschein loan are all unsecured.
The public sector subsidiary partnership payment liability is an estimate of the annual preferred payments to be made by AXELOS Limited the partnership formed with the Cabinet Office to the Cabinet Office in 2019 to 2023.
The payments are funded by AXELOS Limited and are individually contingent on the profits of that business.
After the contractual obligations to make these payments have been met or have expired, the shareholders will be entitled to share in the retained profits pro rata to their equity interest in AXELOS Limited.
The third-party non-controlling shareholders of AXELOS Limited and Fera Science Limited hold options to sell their shareholdings to a member of the Group.
Accordingly, a liability of 118.5m 2017: 122.4m has been recognised and a corresponding entry has been recorded against retained earnings.
The option held by the non-controlling shareholder in AXELOS became exercisable on 1 January 2019 and as a result is included as a current liability notwithstanding the fact that the Company is not in receipt of any notice of intention to exercise the option.
The option held by the non-controlling shareholder in Fera Science Limited is not expected to become exercisable within a year.
As a result the associated liability is recorded as non-current.
During the year, Capita Business Services Limited paid 6.8m in return for an amendment to the terms of the joint venture shareholders agreement previously entered into with the non-controlling shareholder in Entrust Support Services Limited.
The variation agreement cancelled the option previously held by the noncontrolling shareholder to sell its shares in Entrust Support Services Limited to Capita Business Services Limited under certain circumstances.
As at 31 December 2017 a current liability of 6.8m was recorded in respect of this option.
The Group has available to it a committed Revolving Credit Facility of 600m of which 81m matures in August 2020 and 519m matures in August 2021.
The facility is available for the Group's immediate use and nil was drawn down at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
The covenant terms in respect of the above liabilities are discussed in note 2.
Borrowing costs of nil were capitalised in the year 2017: nil.
142 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Financial liabilities continued At 31 December 2018, the Groups US private placement loan notes, euro fixed rate bearer notes, and the Schuldschein loan were as follows: Interest rate Face Value Private placement loan notes Denomination Maturity % m Issued 2010 Series C 4.78 GBP 37.1 30 June 2020 1 Issued 2011 Series A 4.85 GBP 37.1 22 July 2019 Series C 4.76 GBP 26.0 19 July 2021 Issued 2013 Series A 3.73 GBP 55.7 30 September 2020 Issued 2015 Series C 3.26 GBP 18.6 22 January 2022 Series F 3.54 GBP 7.4 22 January 2025 Series G 3.67 GBP 22.3 22 April 2025 Series I 3.58 GBP 23.8 22 January 2027 Issued 2016 Series B 2.18 GBP 36.0 27 October 2021 Series D 2.52 GBP 27.5 27 October 2023 Series F 2.77 GBP 18.6 27 October 2026 Total GBP denominated loan notes GBP 310.1 2 Issued 2010 Series B 4.80 USD 185.7 30 June 2020 2 Issued 2011 Series B 4.65 USD 59.4 22 July 2019 Series B 4.50 USD 175.3 19 July 2021 Series A 4.75 USD 37.1 26 July 2021 2 Issued 2015 Series A 3.33 USD 29.7 22 January 2022 Series B 3.43 USD 48.3 22 April 2022 Series D 3.45 USD 39.4 22 January 2023 Series E 3.65 USD 74.3 22 January 2025 Series H 3.80 USD 27.5 22 January 2027 2 Issued 2016 Series A 3.03 USD 18.6 27 October 2021 Series C 3.37 USD 17.8 27 October 2023 Series E 3.59 USD 19.3 27 October 2026 Total USD denominated loan notes USD 732.4 Issued 2015 Fixed rate bearer notes 2.125 EUR 179.0 10 November 2022 Fixed rate bearer notes 2.875 EUR 60.0 10 November 2027 Schuldschein loan 2.125 EUR 16.0 10 November 2022 Total euro denominated fixed rate bearer notes and Schuldschein loan EUR 255.0 1 The Group has entered into interest rate swaps to convert the interest cost to floating rates based on 6-month GBP LIBOR.
2 The Group has entered into currency swaps for the USD issues to achieve a floating rate of interest based on 6-month GBP LIBOR.
Further disclosure on the Groups use of hedges is included in note 26.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 143 24 Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts The Group uses finance leases and hire purchase contracts to acquire plant and machinery.
These leases have terms of renewal and purchase options but no escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the lessee.
The value of future minimum lease payments is analysed as follows: 2018 2017 m m Not later than 1 year 0.0 0.2 The Group has entered into commercial leases on properties, motor vehicles and items of plant and machinery.
These leases have an average duration ofbetween3 and 10 years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Not later than 1 year 99.2 119.2 Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 245.3 285.8 Later than 5 years 391.5 428.0 736.0 833.0 25 Provisions Asset services Claim and Restructuring Business exit indemnity litigation Property provision provision provision provision provision Other Total m m m m m m m As at 1 January 2018 10.6 37.0 69.1 64.3 22.5 9.1 212.6 Provisions provided for in the year 41.9 22.7 6.4 2.3 12.7 86.0 Provisions released in the year 5.0 1.7 4.6 7.9 1.8 1.7 22.7 Utilisation 35.5 40.9 61.5 16.4 3.5 3.9 161.7 Provisions acquired 0.6 1.5 2.1 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Reclassification between categories 0.4 0.1 0.3 As at 31 December 2018 12.0 17.5 3.0 46.4 19.9 17.4 116.2 The provisions made above have been shown as current or non-current on the balance sheet to indicate the Groups expected timing of the matters reaching conclusion.
Judgement is required in measuring and recognising provisions related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation and arbitration, as well as other contingent liabilities.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
Where practicable, the range of reasonably possible outcomes and sensitivities of the carrying amounts to the methodology, assumptions and estimates, the reason for the sensitivity, the expected resolution of uncertainties and the range of reasonable possible alternatives, are provided below.
Where no reliable basis of estimation can be made, no provision is recorded.
However, contingent liabilities disclosures are given when there is a greater than a remote probability of outflow of economic benefits.
Restructuring provision: The provision represents the cost of reducing role count where there is a constructive obligation created through communication to affected employees which has crystallised a valid expectation that roles are at risk.
Additionally, it reflects the onerous nature of property lease provisions net of any sub-letting opportunity on a discounted basis, where due to the reduced requirement for space there is additional surplus capacity.
During the year, additional provision has been made for costs as further restructuring opportunities related to the transformation plan have been identified.
Business exit provision: The provision relates to the cost of exiting businesses through disposal or closure including professional fees related to business exits and the costs of separating the businesses being disposed.
Capita Asset Services indemnity provision: In 2017 the Group agreed a full and final settlement with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA regarding the Connaught Income Series 1 Fund the Fund.
Capita Financial Managers Limited CFM was the Operator of the Fund until September 2009, when it was replaced by an unrelated company as Operator, following which CFM had no further involvement with the Fund.
The Fund went into liquidation in 2012 and its liquidator brought a claim against both former Operators, which for its part, Capita settled in 2016 for a sum of 18.5m.
The FCA undertook a formal review of the activities of both Operators and announced that its conclusion was that CFM did not meet all of its regulatory requirements in the period April 2008 to September 2009.
To ensure that investors receive appropriate redress and to bring this matter to a close enabling the smooth disposal of CFM, CFM and Capita agreed a full and final settlement with the FCA.
In reaching this settlement, the full cooperation which CFM gave to the FCA during the course of its investigation was acknowledged.
CFM agreed to a further 66.0m being made available for the benefit of the Funds investors, with Capita agreeing to fund this amount.
The FCA considered that this payment was sufficient to return the amount originally invested, taking into account any interest, distributions and other payments that had already been received, with the intention of placing investors as closely as possible back into the position they would have been in if they had never invested in the Fund.
This settlement allowed for the available funds to be directed towards the Funds Investors.
Given the circumstances, the FCA did not consider that it would be appropriate to require CFM to pay a financial penalty.
144 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Provisions continued Capita made provision for the redress payment and associated legal costs of 66.8m as at 31 December 2017.
CFM and the FCA subsequently reached agreement, on the basis of third-party calculations of the liability due, such that the final amount of the redress payment will not exceed 61.5m, and accordingly 4.6m of the provision has been released.
The final quantum of the redress payments is expected to be determined in the first half of 2019.
Capita completed the disposal of its Asset Services businesses, including CFM, to the Link Group on 3 November 2017.
Capita plc, as part of the sale of the Capita Asset Services businesses, has provided an indemnity against certain legacy claims.
The provisions held, namely the Asset Services settlement provision which includes provisions for Arch Cru, Connaught and other legacy claims, have therefore been retained within the Group.
Giving due consideration to these claims, the Group provided 69.1m including the 66.8m above as at 31 December 2017.
A provision of 3.0m remains as at 31 December 2018 and is expected to unwind within the next 12 months.
Claims and litigation provision: In addition to the Capita Asset Services Indemnity provision, the Group is exposed to other claims and litigation.
The Group makes a provision when a claim has been made where it is more probable than not that a loss might occur.
These provisions are reassessed regularly to ensure that the level of provisioning is consistent with the claims that have been reported.
The range of values attached to these claims, can be significant and, where obligations are probable and estimable, provisions are made representing the Groups best estimate of the expenditure to be incurred.
The Group robustly defends its position on each claim and they are often settled for amounts significantly smaller than the initial claim and may result in no transfer of economic benefits.
Therefore, we do not disclose a range of possible outcomes for these claims.
In the period, the Group has settled a number of liabilities which it had provided for in previous years.
Additionally, it has provisions, which originate due to the nature of the Groups activities and revised existing provisions where more information on the progress of the claim has become apparent.
In addition, 5.5m provision was released from a provision made in 2017 relating to the Groups Real Estate & Infrastructure business.
The Groups exposure to claims is mitigated by having in place a number of large insurers providing cover for the Groups activities, albeit insurance recoveries are only recognised as an asset at the point the recovery is virtually certain.
At the 31 December 2017, an asset had been recognised of 5.0m in respect of recoveries under an indemnity, no other recovery assets had been recognised.
No recovery assets have been recognised as at 31 December 2018.
Due to the nature of these claims, the Group cannot give an estimate of the period over which this provision will unwind.
Property provision: Includes a provision of 10.7m 2017: 12.8m, made on a discounted basis, for the difference between the market value of property leases acquired in 2011 with the Ventura and Vertex Private Sector acquisitions and the lease obligations committed to at the date the leases were signed by the previous owners.
This is in accordance with IFRS 3 revised which requires the use of fair value measurement.
The remaining property provision of 9.2m 2017: 9.7m is made on a discounted basis for the future rent expense and related cost of leasehold property net of estimated sub-lease income where the space is vacant or currently not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
The expectation is that this expenditure will be incurred over the remaining periods of the leases which range from 1 to 24 years.
Other provisions: Relates to provisions in respect of other potential exposures arising due to the nature of some of the operations that the Group provides, the most significant of which are in respect of immaterial onerous contracts.
These are likely to unwind over a period of 1 to 10 years.
26 Financial instruments Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial instruments comprise cash, bank loans, private placement loan notes, finance leases and derivatives, the purpose of which is to provide liquidity for the Groups operations and to manage its financial risks.
The Group has various other financial instruments including trade receivables and trade payables arising from its operations.
The derivatives comprise interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, and forward currency contracts held with its relationship banks, all of which have investment grade credit ratings.
The derivatives purpose is to manage interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
It is the Groups policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board periodically reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
Carrying values and fair values of financial instruments The following table analyses by classification and category the carrying value of the Groups financial instruments excluding short-term debtors, creditors, payables receivables and cash in hand.
The carrying values are a reasonable approximation to the fair value of financial instruments with the exception of the 12 private placement loan notes that remain subject to fixed rate interest.
The fair value has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing foreign exchange spot and forward rate, and interest rate curves.
The valuation models use foreign exchange spot and forward rates and interest rate curves.
These have a carrying value of 473.3m and a fair value of 459.6m.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents including receivables and payables approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of floating rate borrowings approximates to the carrying value because interest rates are at floating rates where payments are reset to market values at intervals of less than one year.
The private placement loan notes that have been hedged to floating rates of interest have a carrying value of 634.7m and a fair value of 634.7m.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 145 26 Financial instruments continued The fair value of cross-currency and interest swaps is determined using discounted cash flow techniques based on readily available market data.
The fair value of the cross-currency and interest rate swaps are provided in note 18 Financial assets, and note 23 Financial liabilities.
At fair value Derivatives At fair value through Amortised used for through the P&L cost hedging OCI Total As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m Financial assets Cash 957.5 957.5 Insurance asset recoverable 1.3 1.3 Cash flow hedges 8.3 8.3 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 3.9 3.9 Interest rate swaps in relation to GBP denominated loan notes 1.9 1.9 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 103.1 103.1 Investments 6.1 6.1 Held for trading assets 2.7 2.7 3.9 958.8 113.3 8.8 1,084.8 At fair value At fair value Derivatives Other through through used for financial equity the P&L hedging liabilities Total m m m m m Financial liabilities Overdrafts 314.8 314.8 Private placement loan notes 1,108.0 1,108.0 Other loan notes 0.3 0.3 Term loan 100.0 100.0 Cash flow hedges 1.2 1.2 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 1.4 1.4 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 3.5 3.5 Contingent consideration 8.9 8.9 Deferred consideration 2.0 2.0 Public sector subsidiary partnership payment 43.5 43.5 Put options of non-controlling interests 118.5 118.5 118.5 10.3 4.7 1,568.6 1,702.1 The aggregate loan note value above of 1,108.0m includes the GBP carrying value of the USD denominated loan notes at 31 December 2018.
To mitigate exposure to currency fluctuations the Group has entered into currency swaps which effectively hedge movements in the loan notes' fair value arising from changes in foreign exchange and interest rates.
Interest rate swaps hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of GBP denominated loan notes.
The fair values of the currency and interest swaps are provided in note 18 Financial assets and note 23 Financial liabilities.
146 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued At fair value Derivatives through the Loans and used for Available for P&L receivables hedging sale Total At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Financial assets Cash 921.7 921.7 1 Available-for-sale assets 4.6 4.6 1 Deferred consideration 5.2 5.2 1 Insurance asset recoverable 5.0 5.0 Cash flow hedges 7.8 7.8 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 7.7 7.7 Interest rate swaps in relation to GBP denominated loan notes 5.4 5.4 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 185.3 185.3 7.7 931.9 198.5 4.6 1,142.7 At fair value Derivatives through used for Other financial the P&L hedging liabilities Total m m m m Financial liabilities Overdraft 443.3 443.3 Private placement loan notes 1,664.0 1,664.0 Other loan notes 0.3 0.3 Term loan 100.0 100.0 Cash flow hedges 2.7 2.7 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 0.3 0.3 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 8.5 8.5 Contingent consideration 24.6 24.6 Deferred consideration 13.1 13.1 Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2 Public sector subsidiary partnership payment 51.2 51.2 Put options of non-controlling interests 122.4 122.4 0.3 11.2 2,419.1 2,430.6 1 Classification has changed in 2018 following the adoption of IFRS 9.
The fair value of financial instruments has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates, except for held for trading assets which are unlisted equity securities and investment loans.
The valuation models incorporate various inputs including foreign exchange spot and forward rates and interest rate curves.
Unlisted equity securities and investment loans are held at amortised cost.
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with multiple counterparties, all of which are financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
Fair value hierarchy The following tables show the fair value measurement of financial instruments by level of the fair value hierarchy: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 147 26 Financial instruments continued At 31 December 2018 Level 2 fair Level 3 fair value value m m Financial assets Cash flow hedges 8.3 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 3.9 Held for trading assets 2.7 Investments 6.1 Interest rate swaps in relation to GBP denominated loan notes 1.9 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 103.1 Total financial assets 117.2 8.8 Financial liabilities Private placement loan notes 634.7 Cash flow hedges 1.2 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 3.5 Contingent consideration 8.9 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 1.4 Put options of non-controlling interests 118.5 Public sector subsidiary partnership payment 43.5 Total financial liabilities 640.8 170.9 At 31 December 2017 Level 2 fair Level 3 fair value value m m Financial assets Cash flow hedges 7.8 Available-for-sale assets 4.6 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 7.7 Interest rate swaps in relation to GBP denominated loan notes 5.4 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 185.3 Total financial assets 206.2 4.6 Financial liabilities Private placement loan notes 1,059.6 Cash flow hedges 2.7 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 8.5 Contingent consideration 24.6 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 0.3 Public sector subsidiary partnership payment 51.2 Put options of non-controlling interests 122.4 Total financial liabilities 1,071.1 198.2 During the year ended 31 December 2018, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
The floating rate private placement loan notes which have a carrying value of 634.7m and a fair value of 634.7m include the GBP equivalent of the US Dollar denominated loan notes at 31 December 2018.
The fair value of cross-currency and interest swaps is determined using discounted cash flow techniques based on readily available market data.
Contingent consideration arises in business acquisitions where the Group has agreed to pay the vendors additional consideration dependent on the achievement of performance targets in the post-acquisition periods.
These performance periods are up to 3 years in duration and will be settled in cash and loan notes if the relevant targets are achieved.
The Group provides for such contingent consideration for each acquisition based on an assessment of fair value at the acquisition date.
The contingent consideration has been calculated using a probability-weighted range of outturns.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on the expected contingent consideration of 8.9m.
The analysis adjusts the probability of payment of the contingent amounts.
A 10% increase in the probability of contingent consideration being paid results in an increase in potential contingent consideration of 1.2m.
A 10% decrease in the probability of the contingent consideration being paid results in a decrease in potential contingent consideration of 0.7m.
148 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued The public sector subsidiary partnership payment liability is an estimate of the aggregate of annual payments to the Cabinet Office in the years 2019 to 2023 to be made by AXELOS Limited the partnership formed with the Cabinet Office.
This payment is funded by AXELOS Limited and the carrying value of43.5m has been derived by discounting the expected payment at an annualised rate of 2.8% to present value.
The carrying value of the liability is sensitive to movements in the profitability of AXELOS and is subject to a cap.
Under all reasonably plausible scenarios the cap has been reached and therefore the sensitivity to changes in both the discount rate and the cash flows that have been used to calculate it is nil.
The put options of non-controlling interest are in respect of AXELOS and Fera see note 23.
These are measured at fair value which has been calculated based on the expected amounts that will be paid in cash by the Group to purchase the shares of the non-controlling interests at the expected date of exercise of the options, which has then been discounted at a annualised rate of 2.8% to arrive at its present value.
The sensitivity of the valuation of the put option of the non-controlling interest to movements in both the discount rate and the cash flows that have been used to calculate it are as follows: a 10% increase in the earnings potential of the business results in a 11.3m increase in the valuation: a 10% decrease in the earnings potential of the business results in a 11.8m decrease in the valuation: a 1% increase in the discount rate applied to the valuation results in a 0.7m decrease in the valuation: and a 1% decrease in the discount rate applied to the valuation results in a 0.2m increase in the valuation.
The following table shows the reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for Level 3 fair values.
Subsidiary Put options of Contingent partnership non-controlling Held for consideration payment interests Investments trading assets m m m m m At 1 January 2018 24.6 51.2 122.4 4.6 Profit and loss movement 5.3 1.9 Utilised 10.4 9.4 Movement of put options recognised in equity 2.9 Fair value of assets and liabilities acquired 6.1 Cancellation of put option 6.8 Discount unwind 1.7 As at 31 December 2018 8.9 43.5 118.5 6.1 2.7 Risk management framework The Groups Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework, which is outlined on pages 4451 of the strategic report.
Interest rate risk The Group manages its interest rate exposure, which arises from the private placement loan notes, using a mix of fixed and variable rate financial instruments.
The Groups USD denominated private placement loan notes are at fixed rates that have been swapped to floating rate GBP liabilities with cross-currency swaps.
These are designated as fair value hedges against the changes in the fair value of the private placement loan notes that arise from changes in foreign currency exchange and interest rates.
The Groups GBP denominated private placement loan notes are at fixed rates.
Certain of these notes have been converted to floating rate GBP interest through interest rate swaps.
The swaps are designated as fair value hedges against the changes in the fair value of the private placement loan notes that arise from changes in interest rates.
The GBP equivalent of the underlying nominal value of private placement loan notes that remain at fixed rates of interest at 31 December 2018 was 473.3m.
The GBP equivalent of the underlying nominal value of private placement loan notes that are exposed to floating rates of interest was 540.5m.
Together with the 100m term loan, the total drawn exposure to floating rates of interest at 31 December 2018 was 640.5m.
This level of floating rate interest exposure, when considered with the floating rate interest received on cash and deposits gives the Group an acceptable overall interest rate risk profile.
The interest rate profile of the interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities of the Group at 31 December was as follows: Within Between Between Between Between More than 1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years 45 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Private placement loan notes 92.8 36.0 191.5 27.5 125.4 473.3 Floating rate Cash in hand 957.5 957.5 Overdraft 314.8 314.8 Private placement loan notes 82.2 145.9 209.5 60.1 44.2 92.9 634.8 Term loan 100.0 100.0 Interest rate swap in relation to GBP denominated loan notes 0.5 1.4 1.9 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 9.3 21.8 35.5 12.2 5.3 15.5 99.6 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 149 26 Financial instruments continued Within Between Between Between Between More than 1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years 45 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Private placement loan notes 124.5 48.2 243.9 186.2 602.8 Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2 Floating rate Cash in hand 921.7 921.7 Overdraft 443.3 443.3 Private placement loan notes 224.1 112.7 194.7 275.7 78.1 175.9 1,061.2 Term loan 100.0 100.0 Interest rate swap in relation to GBP denominated loan notes 2.4 3.0 5.4 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated loan notes 72.2 10.1 26.3 37.8 12.5 17.9 176.8 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings.
There is no impact on the Groups equity.
Effect on profit Increase decrease in interest before tax rates m m 2018 0.5% 0.5 % 3.2 3.2 2017 0.5% 0.5 % 4.9 4.9 Foreign currency risk The Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk arises primarily from cash flows that are not in the native currency of the relevant operation.
The Group is not generally exposed to significant foreign currency transaction risk except where it purchases services in non-native currencies in INR and USD.
The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of this exposure by entering forward currency contracts including Non-deliverable Forward Contracts NDFs to fix the GBP cost of highly probable forecast transactions.
To maximise hedge effectiveness the Group executes the forward currency contracts with terms matching the underlying cash flows.
At 31 December 2018, the Group held foreign exchange forwards against forecast monthly INR costs expected in the years up to and including 2020.
These forecast costs have been determined on the basis of the underlying cash flows associated with the delivery of services under executed customer contracts.
In addition the Group holds foreign exchange forwards against committed costs relating to the purchase of cloud software services in USD in years up to and including 2023.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in INR and USD exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity due to changes in the fair value of the Groups forward exchange contracts.
US Dollars Indian rupee Increase Effect on Increase Effect on decrease profit Effect on decrease profit Effect on in USD before tax equity in INR before tax equity exchange rate m m exchange rate m m 2018 5.0% 2.2 1.3 5.0% 0.6 2017 5.0% 0.7 Hedges Fair value hedges The Group has in issue fixed rate USD and GBP private placement loan notes which it has hedged through a combination of interest rate and cross-currency swaps.
At 31 December 2018 the Group had interest rate swaps in place with a notional amount of 63.1m 2017: 85.0m whereby it receives a weighted average fixed rate of interest of 4.81% 2017: fixed rate of interest 4.81% and pays variable rates based on 6-month GBP Libor.
The swaps hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of 63.1m 2017: 85.0m of the Groups private placement loan notes.
The Group had in place currency swaps whereby it receives a fixed rate of interest and pays a variable rate based on 6-month GBP Libor.
The currency swaps are being used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of 477.4m 2017: 794.8m of the Groups loan notes, which have coupon rates ranging from 3.03% to 4.85%.
The currency swaps are being used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of its US dollar denominated loan notes.
The loan notes, currency and interest rate swaps have the same critical terms including the amount and the date of maturity see note 23.
The total loss in the year on the fair value hedges of 27.5m 2017: total loss 184.0m, excluding credit risk, was equal to the gain loss on the hedged items resulting in no net gain or loss in the income statement apart from hedge ineffectiveness from credit risk and currency basis risk totalling 4.7m credit 2017: 0.6m credit to the income statement shown in net finance costs note 9.
The Group may, at its option, upon notice of not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days, make repayments to its USD and GBP private placement loan notes at a contractual rate.
150 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued The impact of the hedged item on the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 is, as follows: Notional Carrying Change in FV used for Amount Amount measuring ineffectiveness Line item in the statement m m of financial position m Interest rate swap 63.1 1.9 Financial assets 3.5 Notional Carrying Change in FV used for Amount Amount measuring ineffectiveness Line item in the statement m m of financial position m Currency swap asset 432.7 103.1 Financial assets 27.3 Currency swap liability 44.7 3.5 Financial liabilities 0.9 The impact of the hedged item on the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 is, as follows: Accumulated Carrying Change in FV used for FV Amount Line item in the statement measuring ineffectiveness adjustment m of financial position m m Private placement loan notes 1,108.0 101.5 Financial Liabilities 27.5 Cash flow hedges As noted above, the Group holds a series of forward exchange currency contracts in the form of NDFs designated as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions in INR of the Groups Indian operations and committed USD costs.
2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Forward exchange contracts m m m m Fair value 8.3 1.2 7.8 2.7 The terms of the forward currency contracts have been executed to match the terms of the commitments.
The cash flow hedges are in respect of highly probable forecast monthly costs, based on long-term contracts that the Group has in place, denominated in INR and USD up to 2023.
These were assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2018 and a net cumulative unrealised gain of 4.7m 2017: gain of 5.1m less income tax credit of 3.3m 2017: credit of 3.2m was recognised in equity.
The net gain recognised on cash flow hedges during the year was 2.0m 2017: net gain 2.0m while net gains of 2.5m 2017: losses of 0.3m were reclassified to the income statement and included in finance costs.
The tax effect of the net movement in cash flow hedges during the year was a credit to OCI of 0.1m 2017: debit of 0.4m.
Credit risk The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
It is the Groups policy that all clients who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date to measure expected credit losses.
The transition to IFRS 9 has not resulted in a material change to the Groups level of receivable provisioning.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, such as cash and cash equivalents, held for trading financial investments, investment loan, certain derivative instruments and accrued income, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the risk of a default of the counterparty.
The Group manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration of counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to seek assurance from the counterparties to ensure that they can fulfil their obligations.
The Group has a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of the above receivables and instruments.
The mark-to-market movement on derivatives includes the extent to which the fair value of these instruments has been affected by the perceived change in the creditworthiness of the counterparties to those instruments and that of the Group itself own credit risk.
The Group is comfortable that the risk attached to those counterparties is not significant and believes that the currency swaps continue to act as an effective hedge against the movements in the fair value of the Groups issued USD denominated loan notes.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy is to hold cash and undrawn committed facilities at a level sufficient to fund the Group's operations and its medium-term plans.
The Group monitors its risk of experiencing a shortage of funds through a daily cash management process.
This process considers the maturity of both the Groups financial investments and financial assets e. g. accounts receivable, other financial assets and projected cash flows from operations.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use or availability of multiple sources of funding including private placement loan notes, bank loans, term loans, cash, overdrafts and finance leases over a broad spread of maturities to 2027.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 151 26 Financial instruments continued The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2018 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Within Between Between Between Between More than 1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years 45 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m Overdraft 314.8 314.8 Private placement loan notes 83.8 238.6 243.3 254.9 72.4 221.0 1,114.0 Other loan notes 0.3 0.3 Interest on above loan notes 45.0 32.6 26.2 14.8 9.2 20.0 147.8 Term loan 100.0 100.0 Interest on above term loan 0.8 0.8 Contingent consideration 8.9 8.9 Public sector subsidiary partnership payment 9.4 9.4 9.4 9.4 9.4 47.0 Put options of non-controlling interests 107.3 11.2 118.5 Currency swaps 1.3 1.3 1.3 0.9 0.9 1.4 7.1 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 0.1 0.1 Cash flow hedges 1.0 1.0 663.8 290.8 291.4 280.0 91.9 242.4 1,860.3 Within Between Between Between Between More than 1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years 45 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m Overdraft 443.3 443.3 Private placement loan notes 219.0 109.2 310.0 313.6 324.9 363.8 1,640.5 Other loan notes 0.3 0.3 Interest on above loan notes 65.8 52.4 41.6 33.2 18.6 35.5 247.1 Term loan 100.0 100.0 Interest on above term loan 1.6 0.6 2.2 Contingent consideration 12.1 12.5 24.6 Public sector subsidiary partnership payment 9.4 9.4 9.4 9.4 9.4 9.4 56.4 Put options of non-controlling interests 6.8 108.8 10.5 126.1 Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2 Currency swaps 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.0 2.6 9.2 Non-designated foreign exchange forwards and swaps 0.2 0.2 Cash flow hedges 1.7 1.7 761.5 381.8 375.2 368.1 353.9 411.3 2,651.8 The above payments have been calculated based on the prevailing foreign exchange rates and interest rates at the end of the reporting period.
For currency swaps, only payments are included, receipts are excluded.
Master netting or similar agreements The Group has notional cash pools with its banks under which the bank may net cash balances with overdrafts held by other members of the Group.
The effect of this is shown in the table below.
Gross and net amounts Related of financial financial instruments in instruments the balance that are sheet not offset Net amount As at 31 December 2018 m m m Financial assets Cash at bank 957.5 280.3 677.2 Financial liabilities Overdrafts 314.8 280.3 34.5 Gross and net amounts Related of financial financial instruments instruments in the that are balance sheet not offset Net amount As at 31 December 2017 m m m Financial assets Cash at bank 921.7 387.7 534.0 Financial liabilities Overdrafts 443.3 387.7 55.6 152 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit standing, evidenced by healthy capital ratios, to support its ongoing business operations and to maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
The Groups capital management includes consideration of dividend payments or the return of capital to shareholders or issuing new shares.
Focus on capital management forms an important component of Board meetings, with attention on various matters including return on capital employed, ensuring a mix of funding sources to ensure continuity and flexibility, a balance between fixed and floating borrowings, a broad spread of maturities and adequate liquidity headroom.
The Groups capital management process ensures that it meets financial covenants in its borrowing arrangements.
Breaches in meeting the financial covenants could permit the Groups lenders to immediately accelerate repayment of loans and borrowings.
The Group monitors, as part of its monthly Board review, the adherence to specified consolidated leverage ratios and consolidated net interest expense coverage ratios.
There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of any loans and borrowings in the period.
On 23 April 2018, the Company provided a transformation update and proposed rights issue.
The proceeds of the rights issue are being used to: i support the delivery of Capitas new strategy: ii continue to make further investments in the business: and iii reduce its indebtedness in order to help achieve its target leverage ratio of between 1.0x and 2.0x adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA prior to the adoption of IFRS 16.
The Group uses long-dated debt, generally private placement loan notes and long-term bank facilities, to enable it to manage refinancing risk and for the general purposes of the Group.
There are various constraints preventing the Group in using surplus cash to further reduce its debt.
These include the need to maintain adequate liquidity for operations over the course of the planning horizon, cash that is restricted under the terms of its regulated businesses, and the temporary prohibition on the early repayment of debt that was agreed with the lenders of the Groups private placement loan notes as set out above.
A further consideration is that future prepayments of debt could result in a requirement for a pound-for-pound acceleration of the payments to the pension scheme.
Capita plc supports the growth of its various financial services businesses.
These financial firms are subject to various capital requirements imposed by regulators.
These requirements do not apply to Capita plc itself and the Group is not required to provide consolidated returns for regulatory purposes.
The board of each regulated firm is responsible for ensuring it has embedded capital management frameworks that test there are adequate financial resources at all times.
During the year, each complied with all externally imposed financial services regulatory capital requirements.
The Group seeks to maintain a conservative and efficient capital structure with an appropriate level of gearing.
At 31 December 2018, our annualised adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 1.2x 2017: 2.2x with annualised interest cover at 8.2x 2017: 8.6x.
These ratios are monitored monthly by the Board.
The Groups transformation plan includes an assessment of the appropriate financial leverage for the Group over the medium term, to ensure that it has a sustainable capital base to support its clients and operations, increase investment in the business and deliver its future strategy.
The Board considers that the appropriate financial leverage for Capita over the medium term should be an adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of between 1.0x and 2.0x prior to the adoption of IFRS 16.
The Groups debt facilities include typical maintenance obligations including covenant tests on indebtedness and restrictions on the level of liens and indebtedness permitted outside a group of guarantor companies.
The Board monitors ongoing compliance with the tests.
The Group is satisfied that the procedures in place ensure ongoing full compliance with the covenants.
The Group raises debt in a number of markets including the bank loan market, bank overdraft, finance lease and private placement markets.
The facility was undrawn at 31 December 2018 2017: undrawn, and is available for the Groups immediate use.
The Group has historically made use of short-term non-recourse invoice financing facilities provided to it by relationship banks.
nil invoices had been sold under these arrangements and not been settled at 31 December 2018 2017: 110.0m.
The Group has now completed the normalisation of working capital management practices, an objective that was first announced on 31 January 2018.
The Group does not expect to use such invoice financing in future.
Furthermore, the Group will aim to pay suppliers on time in accordance with agreed terms and not seek to accelerate payments for customers beyond terms previously agreed.
Following the rights issue and strategic disposals made during the year, the Group repaid and prepaid a total of 577.2m of the private placement loan notes, fixed rate bearer notes and the Schuldschein loan see note 23.
The maturity of the remaining balances is spread between 2019 and 2027 see note 23.
Further to the Boards update on Capitas transformation, capital structure, funding and trading outlook provided on 31 January 2018, the dividend has been suspended until the Company is generating sustainable free cash flow.
The table below presents quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital: 2018 2017 m m Cash in hand 957.5 921.7 Overdraft 314.8 443.3 Other loan notes 0.3 0.3 Obligations under finance leases 0.0 0.2 Private placement loan notes 1,108.0 1,664.0 Term loan 100.0 100.0 Undrawn available Revolving Credit Facility 600.0 600.0 Currency and interest rate swaps 101.5 182.2 At 31 December 1,064.1 1,703.9 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 153 27 Issued share capital 2018 2017 2018 2017 Allotted, called up and fully paid m m m m Ordinary shares of 2 1 15p each At 1 January 670.1 670.1 13.8 13.8 Rights issue 1,001.0 20.7 At 31 December 1,671.1 670.1 34.5 13.8 In May 2018, the Group offered a rights issue to existing shareholders on the basis of 3 shares for every 2 fully paid ordinary shares held.
The issue was fully subscribed and resulted in the issue of 1,001,032,281 ordinary shares at 0.70 per share.
2018 2017 Share premium m m Ordinary shares of 2 1 15p each At 1 January 501.3 501.3 Rights issue 642.0 At 31 December 1,143.3 501.3 The rights issue raised gross funds of 700.7m.
The total amount capitalised to share capital and share premium was 662.7m 700.7m less issuance costs of 38.0m.
2018 2017 2018 2017 Treasury shares m m m m Ordinary shares of 2 1 15p At 1 January 2.9 3.2 0.1 0.1 Shares allotted in the year 0.3 At 31 December 2.9 2.9 0.1 0.1 In 2018, the Group made no purchases of shares into Treasury and allotted 28,057 2017: 283,281 shares with an aggregate nominal value of 580 2017: 4,420.
The total consideration received in respect of these shares was nil 2017: nil.
2018 2017 2018 2017 Employee benefit trust shares m m m m Ordinary shares of 2 1 15p At 1 January 1.6 1.7 0.1 0.1 Shares allotted in the year 0.1 Shares acquired during the year 10.4 11.0 At 31 December 12.0 1.6 11.1 0.1 The Group will use shares held in the employee benefit trust EBT in order to satisfy future requirements for shares under the Groups share option and longterm incentive plans.
During the year, the EBT allotted 32,367 2017: 69,337 ordinary 2 1 15p shares with an aggregate nominal value of 669 2017: 1,434 tosatisfy exercises under the Groups share option and long-term incentive plans.
The total consideration received in respect of these shares was nil 2017:nil.
The Group acquired 3.2m 2017: nil ordinary 2 1 15p shares paying average market price of 1.87 per share with the total value of 6.0m 2017: nil.
Further, the Group exercised its rights under the rights issue, purchasing 7.2m of shares at 0.70 per share, paying 5.0m.
The aggregate value of shares were transferred to the EBT.
The Group has an unexpired authority to re-purchase up to 10% of its issued share capital.
28 Share-based payment plans The Group operates several share-based payment plans.
In April 2018 Capita announced a rights issue.
The rights issue was made on the basis of three new shares for every two existing shares held by qualifying shareholders at the record date.
To adjust for the dilutive impact of the 2018 rights issue, for share options held that had not vested by 25 May 2018, Capita granted an additional 1.639 the adjustment factor share options for every share option that an employee held to ensure that the fair value remained unchanged after dilution.
The expense recognised for share based payments in respect of employee services received during the year to 31 December 2018 was 3.4m 2017: 2.9m credit, all of which arises from equity-settled share based payment transactions.
Details of the schemes are asfollows: Deferred annual bonus plan This scheme is applicable to Executive Directors.
Under this scheme, awards are made annually consisting of only deferred shares, which are linked to the payout under the annual bonus scheme details of which are contained in the Directors remuneration report on pages 8098.
The value of deferred shares is determined by the pay-out under the annual bonus scheme: half of the annual bonus is paid in cash and the remainder is deferred into shares under the deferred annual bonus plan.
Directors have the option to defer up to 100% of their annual bonus into deferred shares or net bonus into a restricted share award.
The deferred restricted shares are held for a period of three years from the date of award, during which they are not forfeitable, except in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct.
154 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Share-based payment plans continued Long-term incentive plans LTIPs 2008 & 2017 The 2008 LTIP was approved and adopted at the AGM on 6 May 2008 and the 2017 LTIP was approved and adopted at the AGM on 13 June 2017.
This scheme is open to senior employees and shares will vest according to performance criteria.
For the 2016 award, vesting of the award will depend on share price growth, EPS growth and return on capital employed measured over a three-year period.
An award will not vest if Capitas average share price at the date of vesting is below the average share price at the date of grant.
75% of the number of shares which will vest is dependent upon the Companys EPS growth exceeding 6% and on banding within the scheme and 25% of the number of shares which will vest is dependent upon the Companys return on capital employed exceeding 14%, and on banding within the scheme.
For the 2017 award, vesting of the award will depend on EPS growth and return on capital employed measured over a three-year period.
75% of the number of shares which will vest is dependent upon the Companys EPS growth exceeding 3% and on banding within the scheme and 25% of the number of shares which will vest is dependent upon the Companys return on capital employed exceeding 11%, and on banding within the scheme.
For the 2018 award, vesting will depend on annualised cost savings, free cash flow and margin.
100% of the number of shares which will vest is dependent upon the Companys annualised cost savings reaching 205m, free cash flow reaching 240m and margin of 12%.
25% of the number of shares which will vest is dependent upon annualised costs savings reaching 160m, free cash flow reaching 180m and margin of 9%.
1997 Executive share option scheme This scheme was open to senior employees other than Executive Directors and divisional Executive Directors.
The exercise price of the options is equal to the market price of the shares on the date of grant.
Options granted under this scheme become exercisable if the growth in the Companys EPS exceeds the growthinRPI by 8% over the three-year vesting period from the date of grant.
The contractual life of each option granted is seven years.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, the total outstanding 0.1m share options, with a weighted average exercise prices WAEP of6.83, were forfeited.
No further awards were made under this scheme.
2008 & 2017 LTIP 2018 2017 m m Outstanding as at 1 January 8.9 8.7 Awarded during the year 27.1 4.6 Exercised 0.0 Forfeited 6.3 4.4 Outstanding as at 31 December 29.7 8.9 Exercisable as at 31 December The weighted average remaining contractual life of the above shares outstanding at 31 December 2018 was 1.5 years 2017: 1.6 years.
There are no exercise prices for any options issued under the 2008 LTIP scheme.
Deferred annual bonus plan The weighted average share price of options at the date of exercise in 2018 was 1.67.
The weighted average share price during the year was 1.48 2017: 5.62.
The total cash value of the Deferred Shares awarded during the year was nil 2017: nil.
All schemes The fair value of the options granted awarded during the year was 1.10 2017: 4.37.
None of the existing option schemes have exercise prices.
The fair value for the 2017 and 2018 share scheme issues is effectively the market price of a Capita share at the date of grant.
Accordingly, no assumptions have been disclosed.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted pre-2017 is estimated as at the date of grant using a multiple simulation option pricing valuation model, takinginto account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
In addition, within the 2008 LTIP is an average share price floor under which the share award will not vest.
This floor is based on the Companys average share price at the date of vesting.
No other features of options grant were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 155 29 Additional cash flow information Operating cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2018 As set out in note 2, the Group has simplified its non-statutory reporting measures to improve transparency and make it easier for the readers of the Annual Report and Accounts to understand its financial performance.
The revised presentation is reported results on the face of the income statement, with a footnote detailing adjusting profit and earnings per share, and a note to the accounts see note 3 providing a reconciliation between reported and adjusted profit.
The presentation of the cash flow statement and additional cash flow information in the notes have also been revised to show the same split.
Refer to note 3 for detail of the items excluded from adjusted results.
The 2017 cash flow has also been restated to: i include 28.9m of cash costs previously omitted from cash flows from investing activities used by discontinued operations: ii remove a 33.5m business exit provision from adjusted non-cash items: and iii correct a disclosed 0.5m loss of sale of property, plant and equipment to a 4.5m gain.
The net result of these items is to reduce net cash inflow from investing activities by 28.9mand to increase net cash inflow from operating activities and reported free cash flow by 28.9m.
There is no impact on the reported net movement in cash and cash equivalents as the adjustments were off set within movements in trade and other receivables payables.
2018 Restated 2017 Adjusted Reported Adjusted Reported Note m m m m Cash flows from operating activities: Operating profit loss 3 335.3 34.9 447.5 420.1 Adjustments for non-cash items: Depreciation 13 59.1 60.1 56.4 63.5 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 27.9 114.6 15.4 144.2 Share based payment expense 28 3.4 3.4 2.9 2.9 Employee benefits 32 12.3 17.7 30.8 30.8 Profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 7 11.4 11.4 4.5 4.5 Accelerated deprecation amortisation on business exit 1.9 Contingent consideration 5.4 2.5 Impairment of property plant and equipment 13 6.1 6.1 9.0 Impairment of intangibles acquired in business combinations 14 61.7 14.0 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 14 58.1 551.6 Impairment of contract related assets and investment loan 3 119.2 Impairment of loans and investments 1.6 Other adjustments: Movement in provisions 2.8 9.1 25.2 22.7 Other adjustments: Pension deficit contribution 42.0 Other contributions into pension schemes 16.1 21.0 29.8 29.8 Professional fees on acquisition 0.5 Re-measurement of businesses held for disposal 8.6 Movement in Capita Asset Services settlement provisions 3.4 Movements in working capital: Trade and other receivables 91.2 89.3 37.2 30.6 Non-recourse receivables financing 110.0 110.0 23.6 23.6 Trade and other payables 98.5 91.7 115.3 111.7 Deferred income 243.4 243.7 75.2 66.8 Contract fulfilment assets non current 11.7 11.7 11.9 11.9 Cash generated from operations 69.8 75.7 230.3 225.4 Adjustments for free cash flows: Income tax received 26.6 25.3 9.5 9.5 Net interest paid 39.0 52.5 54.2 54.2 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14 74.6 89.4 62.5 66.2 Purchase of intangible assets 15 67.2 70.1 70.8 71.0 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and 1.9 1.9 23.1 23.1 equipment intangible assets Free cash flow 82.5 260.5 75.4 66.6 156 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Additional cash flow information continued Adjusted free cash flow and cash generated from operations Free cash flow Cash generated from operations 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Reported 260.5 66.6 75.7 225.4 Pension deficit contributions 46.9 46.9 Significant restructuring 100.8 45.0 100.8 45.0 Business exits 6.6 19.5 11.1 23.4 Other 23.7 16.7 8.9 16.7 Adjusted 82.5 75.4 69.8 230.3 Pension deficit contributions: in November 2018, the Group agreed a deficit recovery plan with the Trustees of the Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme.
The payments under the agreed deficit recovery plan total 176m, of which 42.3m was paid in 2018.
In addition, further contributions of 4.5m were made following closure of the Scheme in 2017 to future accrual for the majority of members of the Scheme.
These payments have been excluded from adjusted cash flows as the Group treats them like a debt like item.
Significant restructuring: in April 2018, the Group announced a multi-year transformation plan.
In the period to 31 December 2018, a cash outflow of 100.8m 2017: 45.0m was incurred in relation to the cost of the transformation plan, and restructuring costs relating to Capitas previously announced cost reduction plan.
Business exits: the cash flows of businesses exited, or in the process of being exited, and the proceeds on disposals, are disclosed outside the adjusted results.
The 2017 results have been restated for those businesses exited, or in the process of being exited, in 2018 to enable comparability of the adjusted results.
Other: includes the cash flows related to other items excluded from adjusted profit.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds debt Non-cash flow movements Net debt at Foreign Net debt at Acquisitions Cash flow Fair value 1 January exchange 31 December 2 in 2018 movements changes Other 2018 movements 2018 Note m m m m m m m 20 Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts 478.4 165.5 1.2 642.7 23 Other loan notes 0.3 0.3 1 23 Private placement loan notes 1,664.0 580.9 3.1 27.5 0.5 1,108.0 18, 23 Currency swaps in relation to USD denominated private 176.8 103.6 26.4 99.6 18 Interest rate swaps in relation to GBP denominated private 5.4 3.5 1.9 23 Term loan 100.0 100.0 18 Finance leases 0.2 0.2 Total net liabilities from financing activities 1,582.3 477.5 3.1 4.6 0.5 1,106.8 23 Deferred consideration 13.1 11.1 2.0 Net debt 1,117.0 654.1 1.9 4.6 0.5 466.1 1 The sum of these items held at fair value equates to the underlying value of the Groups private placement loan notes debt of 1,006.5m 2017: 1481.8m.
Cash flow movement in private placement loan notes includes both repayment of private placement loan notes of 577.2 m and financing arrangement costs of 3.7 m. 2 Other comprises the amortisation of the discount on the euro debt issue.
The aggregate private placement loan notes fair value above of 1,108.0m 2017: 1,664.0m disclosed in note 23: Financial liabilities includes the GBP value of the USD, GBP and EUR denominated loan notes at 31 December 2018.
To remove the Groups exposure to currency fluctuations it has entered into currency swaps which effectively hedge the movement in the underlying USD loan notes fair value.
The interest rate swap is being used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of GBP denominated private placement loan notes.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 157 29 Additional cash flow information continued The combined fair value of the interest and currency swaps, of 101.5m 2017: 182.2m, is disclosed in note 18: Financial assets, and note 23: Financial liabilities.
Non-cash flow movements Net debt at Foreign Net debt at Cash flow Acquisitions Fair value 1 January exchange 31 December 2 movements in 2016 changes Other 2017 movements 2017 Note m m m m m m m 20 Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts 565.8 90.5 3.1 478.4 23 Other loan notes 0.3 0.3 1 23 Private placement loan notes 1,961.7 126.2 10.7 184.0 1.8 1,664.0 18, 23 Interest and currency swaps in relation to USD denominated 357.9 181.1 176.8 18, 23 Interest rate swaps in relation to GBP denominated private 7.7 2.3 5.4 23 Term loan 650.0 550.0 100.0 23 Finance leases 2.3 2.1 0.2 Total net liabilities from financing activities 2,248.7 678.3 10.7 0.6 1.8 1,582.3 23 Fixed rate interest rate swaps 85.1 84.6 0.5 23 Deferred consideration 10.8 10.8 2.0 11.1 13.1 Net debt 1,778.8 683.2 2.0 7.6 1.1 12.9 1,117.0 1 The sum of these items held at fair value equates to the underlying value of the Groups private placement loan notes debt of 1,006.6m 2016: 1,481.8m.
Cash flow movement in private placement loan notes includes both repayment of private placement loan notes of 124.1 m and financing arrangement costs of 2.1 m. 2 Other comprises the amortisation of the discount on the euro debt issue.
30 Capital commitments At 31 December 2018, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounted to 10.7m 2017: 8.8m, relating to building improvement on a leased property and software upgrades.
31 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities represent potential future cash outflows which are either not probable or cannot be measured reliably.
The Group has provided, through the normal course of its business, performance bonds and bank guarantees of 84.0m 2017: 88.4m.
We are in discussions with a number of the Groups life insurance clients, the outcomes and timings of which are uncertain but could result in the continuation of a contract with amended terms or the termination of a contract.
If an operation is terminated, the Group may incur associated costs or accelerate the recognition of deferred income.
As the outcome of these discussions is uncertain, the Group has not made any provision for a future outflow of funds that might result from the eventual outcome.
Capita completed the disposal of its Capita Asset Services businesses, including CFM, to the Link Group on 3 November 2017.
The Capita Group entities are parties to legal actions and claims which arise in the normal course of business.
The Group throughout the year needs to apply judgement in determining the merit of litigation against it and the chances of a claim successfully being made.
It needs to determine the likelihood of an outflow of economic benefits occurring and whether there is a need to disclose a contingent liability or whether a provision might be required due to the probability assessment.
At any time there are a number of claims or notifications that need to be assessed across the Group.
The disparate nature of the Group entities heightens the risk that not all potential claims are known at any point in time.
Under the transformation plan, the support functions including commercial and legal are being strengthened and a Chief General Counsel has been appointed.
This enhances the current processes in place to assess the likelihood of historical claims arising.
32 Employee benefits The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
Pension expense included in the income statement 2018 2017 m m Defined contribution scheme 94.9 86.2 Defined benefit schemes Current Service cost 8.2 30.0 Administration costs 2.9 2.3 Past service cost credit 6.6 1.3 Settlements 0.2 Total charged to profit before tax 112.6 117.0 Interest cost income 9.4 9.2 Total in the income statement 122.0 126.2 Contributions to the defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
The Group has no further obligations once the contributions have been made.
At 31 December 2018, retirement obligations were disclosed in relation to 10 2017: 11 defined benefit pension schemes.
The main defined benefit scheme is the Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme for which the Group is the sole employing sponsor.
Grouped together under Other schemes are nine smaller arrangements.
158 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Employee benefits continued The Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme Scheme The Scheme is an HMRC-registered pension scheme and is subject to standard UK pensions and tax law.
Details of the benefits provided are set out in the Scheme's documentation.
Responsibility for the operation and governance of the Scheme lies with a corporate Trustee which is independent of the Group.
The Trustee Board is made up of member-nominated and employer-nominated directors plus an independent chairman.
The nature of the relationship between the Group and the Trustee Board is governed by the rules of the Scheme and regulations.
The assets of the Scheme are held in a separate fund administered by the Trustee Board to meet long-term pension liabilities to beneficiaries.
The Trustee Board invest the assets in line with their Statement of Investment Principles, which is regularly reviewed.
The Statement of Investment Principles has been established after taking into consideration the liabilities of the Scheme and the investment risk that the Trustee Board is willing to accept.
The Group is consulted before the Statement of Investment Principles is formally adopted.
Benefits are continuing to accrue in the Scheme for a limited group of employees following the closure to future accrual for the majority of members on 30 November 2017.
A full actuarial valuation of the Scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the Trustee, with the last full valuation carried out at 31 March 2017.
The purpose of that valuation is to design a funding plan to ensure that the pension scheme has sufficient assets available to meet future benefit payments, based on assumptions agreed between the Trustee and the Group.
The 31 March 2017 valuation showed a funding deficit of 185m 31 March 2014: 1.4m.
This equates to a funding level of 86.1% 31 March 2014: 99.8%.
The main reason for the increase in deficit was due to the fall in government bond yields, which was partly offset by greater asset returns than assumed.
As a result of the funding valuation, the Group and the Trustee agreed the following plan to eliminate the deficit of 185m, which is in addition to 21.5m paid in early 2018 as part of the disposal of Capita Asset Services to Link Administration Holdings and reflecting that a number of employers ceased to employ contributing members: 2018 2019 2020 2021 Deficit contribution 42m 71m 59m 4m The next scheme funding assessment is being carried out with an effective date of 31 March 2020.
At each scheme funding assessment, the present value of the contributions detailed in the current recovery plan is compared with any shortfall revealed.
Where the contributions under the current recovery plan are no longer expected by the end of periods specified in the recovery plans to be sufficient to remove the shortfall, a new recovery plan will need to be agreed between the trustees and the Group.
Options include increasing contributions due from the Group, extending the recovery periods with additional contributions paid after the expiry of current recovery periods or some combination of the two.
The affordability to the Group of any increase in contributions is a primary consideration in the agreement of any new recovery plan.
Where the contributions are more than sufficient to remove the shortfall by the end of the recovery period, options include reducing contributions due, keeping the recovery period the same, or shortening the recovery period.
The Group expects to contribute 86.0m to the Scheme over 2019.
The valuation of liabilities for funding purposes differs to the valuation for accounting purposes which are shown in these financial statements mainly due to different assumptions being used and different market conditions at the different valuation dates.
The assumptions used for funding purposes are agreed between the Trustee and the Group, with the discount rate being based on the actual assets of the Scheme.
While for accounting purposes the assumptions are determined in accordance with IAS19, with the discount rate being based on the yields available on high quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term.
As part of the sale of Capita Asset Services businesses to Link Administration Holdings, it was agreed with the Trustees that a cash contribution of 17.0m would be made to the Scheme.
The Scheme was closed to future accrual for the majority of members on 30 November 2017, with these members joining the Groups main defined contribution scheme.
As a result of the Scheme closing to future accrual, there was a past service curtailment gain of 2.3m in 2017 reflecting the affected members moving from active members to deferred members.
In addition, a number of employers ceased to employ contributing members of the Scheme.
As a consequence of this the Group paid 4.5m into the Scheme during January 2018 and guarantees have been provided by four of these employers in favour of the Scheme to put them in the same position as if they continued to be participating employers.
In 2012, the Group established the Capita Scotland Pension Limited Partnership the Partnership with the Scheme.
Under this arrangement, intellectual property rights IPR in specific Group software was transferred to the partnership and the rights to use, develop and exploit this IPR was licensed back to the Group in return for an annual fee.
The Schemes interest in the Partnership entitles it to an annual distribution of 8.0m for 15 years.
The Groups interest in the Partnership is fully consolidated into these Group financial statements.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these financial statements.
Separate accounts for the Partnership are not required to be, and have not been, filed at Companies House.
Under IAS 19 Revised the interest in the Partnership does not represent a plan asset for Group reporting purposes and therefore the Schemes deficit position presented in these accounts does not reflect the Schemes interest in the Partnership.
Accordingly, distributions from the Partnership to the Scheme are reflected in these Group accounts as pension contributions to the Scheme on a cash basis as paid.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 159 32 Employee benefits continued Other schemes The total employer contributions to the Other schemes for 2019 are estimated to be 3.0m.
Admitted Body arrangements For the Admitted Body scheme under which benefits are continuing to accrue, the Group will only participate in the scheme for a finite period up to the end of the contract.
TheGroupis required to pay regular contributions as decided by the relevant Scheme Actuary and as detailed in the schemes Schedule of Contributions.
In addition, the Group will be required to pay some or all of any deficit as determined by the respective Scheme Actuary that is remaining at the end of the contract.
In respect of this, the Group is carrying a sufficient level of provision in these financial statements.
For the scheme to which the Group makes contributions under Admitted Body status which is part of the Local Government Pension Scheme responsibility for the governance of the scheme lies with boards which operate under a framework of corporate governance and are responsible for following the relevant statutory regulations.
For the local government pension schemes there is a similar funding regime which is set out in the Local Government Pension Scheme Administration Regulations 2008.
Other UK schemes An allocated section of a LocalGovernment Pension Scheme under which benefits are continuing to accrue where the Group is the employing sponsor.
A segregated section of a multi-employer scheme in which the Group is a participating employer under which benefits are not continuing to accrue.
Three segregated sections in an industry-wide scheme in one of which benefits are continuing to accrue.
For the non-public sector schemes, the scheme funding regime introduced by the Pensions Act 2004 required trustees to carry out regular funding assessments of the schemes and establish schedules of contributions and recovery plans when there is a shortfall in the schemes.
The recovery plans detail the amount and timing of the contributions required to eliminate the shortfall in the schemes.
Funding assessments are carried out at least every 3 years.
Approximate funding updates are produced at each scheme anniversary, when a full scheme funding assessment is not being undertaken.
Each of the Capita sections in these schemes is fully segregated and so there is no cross-subsidy with any other employers section.
For these schemes, the latest formal valuations for each scheme were carried out between 31 December 2015 and 31March 2016.
The valuations for the other schemes are updated by qualified actuaries at each balance sheet date.
Scheme assets are stated at their market valuations at each respective balance sheet date.
For the local government pension scheme there is a similar funding regime which is set out in the Local Government Pension Scheme Administration Regulations 2008.
When the last contributing member in Capitas section of this scheme ceases to be a member, then this will trigger an exit debt.
As at 31 March 2016, this was estimated at 3.1m.
Overseas schemes The Irish scheme is classed as a cross-border scheme for which the beneficiaries of the scheme have their liabilities, and the trustees hold assets, denominated in euros.
The scheme is governed under the UK regulations and subject to the further requirements applying to cross-border schemes.
The Swiss schemes are administered and governed through collective foundations which are separate legal entities.
Benefits are continuing to accrue in the Swiss schemes.
There are a further 50 2017: 55 defined benefit pension arrangements in which various Capita businesses have participated during 2018.
These have been included in the defined contribution pension charge on materiality grounds either due to contractual protections or the size of the scheme.
However, one of these defined benefit schemes relates to participation in the Social Housing Pension Scheme which is a non-segregated multi-employer defined benefit pension scheme where it is not currently possible to identify the Groups share of the scheme under IAS 19.
For this reason it has been included in the defined contribution pension charge.
At the last valuation in 2017, a total deficit of 1,522m was disclosed.
Total deficit contributions from all employers as a result of the 2017 valuation were 161m per annum, of which the Groups share is 0.41m per annum.
If the Group were to cease to be a participating employer in this scheme there would be an exit debt payable.
As at 30 September 2017 this was estimated at 11.9m.
The Groups expected employer contributions for this scheme in 2019 is 0.4m.
Risks associated with the Groups pension schemes These defined benefit pension schemes expose the Group to various risks, with the key risks set out below: Investment risk: the schemes invest in a wide range of assets with a view to provide long-term investment returns at particular levels.
There is a risk that investment returns are lower than expected which, in isolation, could result in a worsening of the funding position of the schemes.
Interest rate risk: the IAS 19 discount rate is derived based on the yields available on good quality corporate bonds of suitable duration.
If these yields decrease, then in isolation, this would increase the value placed on the IAS 19 obligation and result in a worsening of the funding position of the schemes.
Inflation risk: the liabilities of the schemes are linked to future levels of inflation.
If future inflation is higher than expected then this would result in the cost of providing the benefits increasing and thereby worsening the funding position of the schemes.
Longevity risk: if members live longer than expected, then pensions will be paid for a longer time which will increase the value placed on the liabilities and therefore worsen the funding position of the schemes.
In order to manage these risks, the Group and the trustees carry out regular assessments of these risks.
For the main defined benefit scheme the following actions have been taken: The Trustee of the Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme has entered into two bulk annuity contracts with an insurer in respect of a small number of high individual liability pensioner members one in 2015 and the second in late 2017 with total value included in the assets at 31 December 2018 of 68.7m 2017: 76.7m.
The Trustee has entered into a Liability Driven Investment programme.
The level of risk that is managed by this is set by various market-related and funding trigger points.
Together, these actions have led to a current level of hedging interest rate and inflation of around 65% of the liabilities measured on the trustees long-term funding basis.
As the funding level improves it is planned to further increase the level of hedging.
The hedging aims to match the value of the assets to the movement in liabilities due to inflation and interest rate changes.
As part of this strategy and to retain exposure to growth assets, the scheme invests in derivatives to gain synthetic equity exposure.
Therefore, the equity allocation shown below is in economic exposure terms i. e. inclusive of the derivative based position.
160 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Employee benefits continued Assets and liabilities Under IAS19, plan assets must be valued at the bid market value at the balance sheet date.
Asset valuations have been sourced from the schemes investment managers and custodians, based on their pricing sources and methodologies.
For the main asset categories: Equities listed on recognised stock exchanges are valued at closing bid prices.
Bonds are measured using a combination of broker quotes and pricing models making assumptions for credit and market risks and market yield curves.
Properties are valued on the basis of open market values.
Assets in investment funds are valued at fair value which is typically the Net Asset Value provided by the investment manager.
Certain unlisted investments are valued using a model based valuation such as discounted cash flow.
The value of bulk annuity contracts have been assessed by discounting the projected cash flows payable under the contracts projected by an actuary, consistent with the terms of the contract and is equal to the corresponding liability calculated by reference to the IAS19 assumptions.
There are two assets which have been classified as insurance contracts for the purposes of these accounts: The two bulk annuity contracts entered into by the Trustee of the Capita scheme late in 2015 and 2017.
The investment of the assets in respect of the Swiss schemes occurs by the collective foundations in the context of reinsurance contracts.
Reconciliation of retirement benefits Explanation of constituents of the Income Statement.
The cost of providing the pension scheme over the year is broken down as follows: Service cost is the cost to the Group of future benefits earned by contributing members over the current financial period.
Past service cost represents the change in the present value of scheme liabilities in the current period in relation to prior years service.
Administration costs are those entailed by the pension schemes over the current period.
Interest cost income is made up of the interest cost on pension liabilities and assets over the current period based on the discount rate adopted at the start of the period.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 161 32 Employee benefits continued The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for the net defined benefit liability and its components: Group total Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Net defined liability 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 1,584.6 1,454.9 1,177.8 1,109.7 406.8 345.2 Included in the income statement: Current service cost 8.2 30.0 8.2 30.0 Administration costs 2.9 2.3 2.9 2.3 1 Past service cost 6.6 1.3 6.6 1.3 Settlements 1.8 1.6 0.2 Interest cost income 38.7 39.8 29.3 30.6 9.4 9.2 Sub-total in income statement 56.4 69.0 29.3 29.0 27.1 40.0 Included in other comprehensive income: Actuarial loss gain arising from: demographic assumptions 16.1 0.5 16.1 0.5 financial assumptions 100.7 83.9 100.7 83.9 experience adjustments 39.5 14.1 39.5 14.1 changes in asset ceiling minimum liability Return on plan assets excluding interest 21.2 45.8 21.2 45.8 Foreign currency translation 1.1 0.9 0.9 0.6 0.2 0.3 Sub-total in other comprehensive income 155.2 96.6 20.3 45.2 134.9 51.4 Employer contributions 80.0 29.8 80.0 29.8 Contributions by employees 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 Benefits paid 51.6 37.3 51.6 37.3 Contract bulk transfers business combinations 5.3 0.2 5.3 0.2 Balance at 31 December 1,430.5 1,584.6 1,211.5 1,177.8 219.0 406.8 The defined benefit obligation comprises 1,430.5m 2017: 1,584.6m arising from schemes that are wholly or partly funded.
Of the total pension cost of 27.1m 2017: 40.0m, 14.8m 2017: 28.5m was included in cost of sales, 2.9m 2017: 2.3m was included in administrative expenses, and 9.4m in finance costs 2017: 9.2m.
1 Past service cost The past service cost of 6.6m is made up of 3 elements: On 26 October 2018, the High Court issued a judgment which concluded that the schemes involved in the case should be amended to equalise pension benefits for men and women in relation to Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP benefits.
This will impact many pension schemes.
The Group is working with the various trustees and their advisers to understand the extent to which the judgment crystallises additional liabilities in their schemes.
This could take over a year to fully rectify.
However, for the purpose of these financial reports, we have estimated that this will increase the reported liability of the Scheme by 4.4m and this is reflected as a past service cost in 2018.
This cost is excluded from the adjusted profit as set out in note 3.
There are still a number of uncertainties over how the equalisation is carried out, including the method of equalisation and any potential appeals about the ruling.
Therefore, the overall cost could differ, but we have included our best estimate of this cost based on information known at this time.
The impact of this will be considered at the next series of triennial valuations and any changes to future contributions will be assessed at that time.
In addition, there is a past service cost of 1.0m in relation to the correction of an historic retirement age equalisation issue for a small group of members in the main scheme.
The remaining cost of 1.2m is in relation to the value of additional contractual benefits granted to members over the current period.
162 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Employee benefits continued Capita scheme Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Net defined liability 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 1,493.4 1,366.4 1,101.3 1,038.0 392.1 328.4 Included in the income statement: Current service cost 6.1 27.9 6.1 27.9 Administration cost 2.7 2.0 2.7 2.0 Past service cost including GMP equalisation and curtailment costs 6.0 1.5 6.0 1.5 Interest cost income 36.8 37.8 27.7 29.0 9.1 8.8 Sub-total in income statement 51.6 66.2 27.7 29.0 23.9 37.2 Included in other comprehensive income: Actuarial loss gain arising from: demographic assumptions 16.0 0.5 16.0 0.5 financial assumptions 95.6 81.2 95.6 81.2 experience adjustments 39.5 13.8 39.5 13.8 Return on plan assets excluding interest 19.0 42.5 19.0 42.5 Sub-total in other comprehensive income 151.1 94.5 19.0 42.5 132.1 52.0 Employer contributions 77.2 25.5 77.2 25.5 Contributions by employees 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 45.9 33.6 45.9 33.6 Contract bulk transfers business combinations 5.3 0.2 5.3 0.2 Balance at 31 December 1,342.7 1,493.4 1,136.0 1,101.3 206.7 392.1 Other schemes Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Net defined liability 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 91.2 88.5 76.5 71.7 14.7 16.8 Included in the income statement: Current service cost 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 Administration cost 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.3 Past service cost including curtailment 0.6 0.2 0.6 0.2 Settlements 1.8 1.6 0.2 Interest cost income 1.9 2.0 1.6 1.6 0.3 0.4 Sub-total in income statement 4.8 2.8 1.6 3.2 2.8 Included in other comprehensive income: Actuarial loss gain arising from: demographic assumptions 0.1 0.1 financial assumptions 5.1 2.7 5.1 2.7 experience adjustments 0.3 0.3 changes in asset ceiling minimum liability Return on plan assets excluding interest 2.2 3.3 2.2 3.3 Foreign currency translation 1.1 0.9 0.9 0.6 0.2 0.3 Sub-total in other comprehensive income 4.1 2.1 1.3 2.7 2.8 0.6 Employer contributions 2.8 4.3 2.8 4.3 Contributions by employees 1.6 1.5 1.6 1.5 Benefits paid 5.7 3.7 5.7 3.7 Contract bulk transfers business combinations Balance at 31 December 87.8 91.2 75.5 76.5 12.3 14.7 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 163 32 Employee benefits continued Breakdown of liabilities for the Capita Scheme Information about the defined benefit obligation for the Capita Scheme: Proportion Proportion of overall of overall Duration Duration liability liability years years % % 2018 2018 2017 2017 Active members 7 24.6 8 24.8 Deferred members 64 23.9 64 24.4 Pensioners 29 13.5 28 13.8 Total 100 20.9 100 21.5 Financial and demographic assumptions 2 Capita scheme Other schemes 2018 2017 2018 2017 Main assumptions: % % % % Rate of price inflation RPI CPI 3.20 2.20 3.20 2.20 3.20 2.20 3.20 2.20 Rate of salary increase 3.20 3.20 3.20 3.20 1 Rate of increase of pensions in payment : RPI inflation capped at 5% per annum 3.10 3.10 3.10 3.10 RPI inflation capped at 2.5% per annum 2.20 2.20 2.20 2.20 CPI inflation capped at 5% per annum 2.25 2.25 2.25 2.25 CPI inflation capped at 2.5% per annum 1.80 1.80 1.80 1.80 Discount rate 2.85 2.50 2.85 2.50 Expected take up maximum available tax free cash 85.0 85.0 85.0 85.0 The average future life expectancy from age 65 in years for mortality tables used to determine scheme liabilities for the various different schemes at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 are as follows: Member currently aged 65 current life expectancy Member currently aged 45 life expectancy at 65 Male Female Male Female 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 3 Capita scheme 22.7 22.7 24.3 24.4 23.1 23.1 25.4 25.4 4 Other schemes 22.7 to 24.2 22.7 to 24.2 24.3 to 24.4 24.4 23.1 to 25.9 23.1 to 25.9 25.4 to 26.2 25.4 to 26.2 1 There are other levels of pension increase which apply to particular periods of membership.
2 Only the discount rate is relevant to the Admitted Body scheme.
Different assumptions apply to non-UK schemes, for example: the discount rate for the Irish Scheme is 2.25% per annum and for the two Swiss schemes, 0.75% per annum in 2018.
3 The assumptions used for the Capita scheme are tailored for each member.
The assumptions adopted make allowance for an increase in the longevity in the future.
The rate for members currently aged 65 is derived from the pensioner membership and the rate for members reaching age 65 in 20 years time is derived from non-pensioner membership.
4 This does not apply to the Admitted Body scheme or the Swiss schemes.
Sensitivity analysis Given the nature and number of assumptions, which are not in the control of the Group, there are a range of reasonably possible outcomes.
The table below shows how the value of the defined benefit obligations would increase if the assumptions were changed as shown assuming all other assumptions remain constant : Capita Other scheme schemes Change in assumptions compared with 31 December 2018 actuarial assumptions m m 0.1% decrease in discount rate 28.0 1.3 0.1% increase in salary increases 0.5 0.1 0.1% increase in inflation and related assumption, e. g. salary and pension increases 14.6 0.9 1 year increase in life expectancy 53.7 2.7 164 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Related-party transactions Compensation of key management personnel 2018 2017 m m Short-term employment benefits 11.9 11.3 Pension 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 0.1 12.1 11.6 Gains on share options exercised in the year by Capita plc Executive Directors were 0.0m 2017: 0.7m and by key management personnel 0.0m 2017: 0.2m, totalling 0.0m 2017: 0.9m.
During the year, the Group rendered administrative services to Smart DCC Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary which is not consolidated refer to note 34.
The Group received 64.3m 2017: 55.5m of revenue for these services.
The services are procured by Smart DCC on an arms length basis under the DCC licence.
The services are subject to review by Ofgem to ensure that all costs are economically and efficiently incurred by Smart DCC.
Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme is a related party of the Group.
Transactions with the Scheme are disclosed in note 32 Employee benefits on pages 157164.
The following companies are substantial shareholders in the Company and therefore a related party of the Company in each case, for the purposes of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The number of shares held on 5 March 2019 was as below: No.
of shares % of voting rights Shareholder 1 Veritas Asset Management LLP 192,533,863 11.54 Invesco Ltd 191,409,106 11.47 Investec Asset Management Ltd 153,805,729 9.22 RWC Asset Management LLP 127,012,876 7.61 Schroder Investment Management 101,030,829 6.06 Woodford Investment Management LLP 93,562,659 5.60 Coltrane Asset Management, L. P 82,388,589 4.94 BlackRock, Inc. 74,230,358 4.45 Marathon Asset Management LLP 64,756,810 3.88 Veritas Funds PLC 55,009,900 3.30 Vanguard Group 54,711,874 3.28 Norges Bank Investment Management 54,273,873 3.25 Jupiter Asset Management 53,573,060 3.21 1 This includes the holding of Veritas Funds PLC.
34 Group composition and non-controlling interests The Groups subsidiaries are listed in notes 8 and 18 of the parent company financial statements on pages 185 and 190195.
This list includes AXELOS Limited and Entrust Support Services Limited which both have 49% non-controlling interests, and Fera which has a 25% non-controlling interest, none of whose contribution was material to the Groups financial performance, financial position or cash flow in both 2018 and 2017.
The Group holds a majority of the voting rights in all of these subsidiaries and the Directors have determined that, other than the entity commented on below, in each case the Group exercises fide facto control.
On 23 September 2014, the Secretary of State for the Department for Energy and Climate Change granted Smart DCC Ltd DCC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, a licence to establish and manage the smart metering communications infrastructure, governed by the Smart Energy Code.
Each year the Group reassess whether it has control over DCC as required under IFRS 10.
The Groups ability to control the relevant activities of DCC is restricted by DCCs operating licence.
The power that the Group has over DCCs relevant activities by virtue of owning it is limited given the restrictions in the licence.
That power is held by the board of DCC where the Group has minority representation in compliance with the licence.
The Group has therefore not consolidated DCC within its Group accounts.
The disclosure of related party transactions with DCC is included in note 33 to these financial statements.
35 Post balance sheet event As set out in note 25 the Company continues to discuss with the Financial Conduct Authority the final quantum of the redress payments regarding the Connaught Income Series 1 Fund.
Since the year end the Company has been notified that it is probable that a reimbursement will be due to Capita.
The amount is subject to final agreement but is not material to the financial statements.
There are no post balance sheet events that have an adjusting effect on the financial statements.
