68 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance statement continued Directors responsibilities inrespect of the Directors responsibility statement We, the Directors of the Company, confirm that to the best of our Annual Report and the financial statements knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable law and regulations.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or loss of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken company financial statements for each financial year.
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in The strategic report includes a fair review of the development and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS performance of the business and the position of the Company and as adopted by the EU and applicable law, and have elected to prepare the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted that they face.
Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view business model and strategy.
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and The Directors Report pages 5498 has been approved by theBoard.
parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them On behalf of the Board.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State, for the Group financial statements, whether they have been Francesca Todd prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Group Company Secretary 13 March 2019 State, for the parent company financial statements, whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to Capita plc any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Registered in England and Wales No.
Assess the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern.
Use the going concern basis of accounting unless they intend either to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent anddetect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of thecorporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inotherjurisdictions.
