Strategic report Governance Financial statements Glossary and diluting for the effect of those shares potentially issuable Alternative Performance Measure APM under employee share schemes divided by the diluted number A financial measure of historical or future financial performance, of shares at the year end.
position or cash flows of the Group which is not a measure defined or specified in IFRS.
EPRA net asset value per share EPRA net asset value divided by the diluted number of BPS ordinary shares.
Basis point is a unit equal to one hundredth of a percentage point.
EPRA net initial yield Capco Annualised net rent after deduction of revenue costs such as Capco represents Capital & Counties Properties PLC also referred head rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls and to as the Company or the Parent and all its subsidiaries and empty rates on investment and development property expressed group undertakings, collectively referred to as the Group.
as a percentage of the gross market value before deduction of CLSA theoretical acquisition costs.
Conditional Land Sale Agreement, an agreement with LBHF EPRA topped-up initial yield relating to its land in the Earls Court and West Kensington Net initial yield adjusted for the expiration of rent-free periods.
EPRA triple net asset value NNNAV Diluted figures EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of derivative financial Reported amounts adjusted to include the dilutive effects of instruments, excess fair value of debt over carrying value and potential shares issuable under employee incentive arrangements.
deferred tax on derivative financial instruments, revaluations Earls Court and capital allowances.
The London district made up of a series of residential EPRA triple net asset value per share NNNAV neighbourhoods crossing the boundaries of London Borough of EPRA triple net asset value divided by the diluted number of Hammersmith & Fulham and Royal Borough of Kensington & ordinary shares.
EPRA vacancy Earls Court Masterplan The ERV of un-let units expressed as a percentage of the ERV of let The Earls Court Masterplan, created by Sir Terry Farrell and and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, excluding units Partners, is the consented scheme for the transformation of under development.
Earls Court and West Kensington Opportunity Area.
The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham and The Royal Borough ESB of Kensington & Chelsea formally granted outline planning Empress State Building.
permission for the Earls Court Masterplan on 14 November 2013.
Estimated rental value ERV Earls Court Properties The external valuers estimate of the open market rent which, on The Groups interests in the Earls Court area, comprising the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained properties held in ECPL, Lillie Square a 50:50 joint venture on a new letting or rent review of the property.
partnership with the Kwok Family Interests, the Empress State Building up until disposal on 26 March 2018 and a number FRC of smaller properties in the Earls Court area.
EBITDA GCP Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The Great Capital Partnership is a 50 per cent joint venture between Capital & Counties Limited and Great Portland Estates PLC.
EC1 & EC2 The site formerly the location of the Earls Court 1 and Earls Court 2 GEA Exhibition Centres.
ECPL GLA Earls Court Partnership Limited is the investment vehicle with Greater London Authority.
The Group holds 63 per cent controlling interest and TfL holds GRESB 37 per cent.
ECPL holds interests in EC1 & EC2 and other adjacent Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark.
property primarily located on and around Lillie Road.
Gross income EPRA The Groups share of passing rent plus sundry non-leased income.
European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Practice Recommendations intended to make financial statements FTSE 350 Real Estate Index of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, more transparent London Stock Exchange index derived from real estate companies and comparable.
in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 indices.
EPRA earnings Headline earnings Profit or loss for the year excluding gains or losses on the Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance with revaluation and sale of investment and development property, Circular 2 2015 issued by the South African Institute of Chartered profit on sale of subsidiaries, impairment of other receivables, write Accountants SAICA, a requirement of the Groups JSE listing.
down of trading property, changes in fair value of derivative This measure is not a requirement of IFRS.
financial instruments and associated close-out costs and the related HMRC tax on these items.
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
EPRA earnings per share IFRS EPRA earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares International Financial Reporting Standards.
Innova EPRA net asset value NAV Innova Investment Limited Partnership is a 50 per cent joint The net assets as at the end of the year including the excess of venture between the Group and Network Rail Infrastructure the fair value of trading property over its cost and excluding the Limited.
fair value of financial instruments, deferred tax on revaluations www.
com 139 139 Glossary continued JSE P. A. Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
Kwok Family Interests KFI RBKC Joint venture partner in the Lillie Square development.
Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea.
LBHF RICS The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham.
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Like-for-like property RIDDOR Property which has been owned throughout both years without Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences significant capital expenditure in either year, so income can be Regulations.
For the purposes of comparison SARB of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous South African Reserve Bank.
balance sheet date but not necessarily throughout the prior year.
SAICA Loan to value LTV South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
LTV is calculated on the basis of the Groups net debt divided by the carrying value of the Groups property portfolio.
Section 106 Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, pursuant LSJV to which the relevant planning authority can impose planning The Lillie Square joint venture is a 50 per cent joint venture obligations on a developer to secure contributions to services, between the Group and Kwok Family Interests.
infrastructure and amenities in order to support and facilitate MSCI a proposed development.
Producer of an independent benchmark of property returns.
SMEs Previously known as Investment Property Databank IPD.
NAV Tenant lease incentives Net Asset Value.
Any incentives offered to tenants to enter into a lease.
Typically Net debt incentives are in the form of an initial rent-free period and or Total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
a cash contribution to fit-out the premises.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards the value of incentives granted NIA to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a Net Internal Area.
straight-line basis over the lease term.
Net rental income NRI TfL Gross rental income less ground rents, payable service charge Transport for London and any subsidiary of Transport for expenses and other non-recoverable charges, having taken due London including Transport Trading Limited and London account of bad debt provisions and adjustments to comply with Underground Limited.
International Financial Reporting Standards regarding tenant lease incentives.
Total property return TPR Capital growth including gains and losses on disposals plus Nominal equivalent yield rent received less associated costs, including ground rent.
Effective annual yield to a purchaser on the gross market value, assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, and that the Total return TR property becomes fully occupied and that all rents revert to the The growth in EPRA NAV per share plus dividends per share paid current market level ERV at the next review date or lease expiry.
NRIL Total shareholder return TSR Network Rail Infrastructure Limited.
The increase in the price of an ordinary share plus dividends paid during the year assuming re-investment in ordinary shares.
Occupancy rate The ERV of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage Underlying earnings of the ERV of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, Profit for the year excluding impairment charges, net valuation excluding units under development.
This is equivalent to 100 per gains losses including profits losses on disposals, net refinancing cent less the EPRA vacancy rate.
charges, costs of termination of derivative financial instruments and non-recurring costs and income.
Underlying earnings is Opportunity Area reported on a Group share basis.
In September 2011 the GLA published the Opportunity Area Planning Frameworks Report.
Opportunity Areas are Londons Underlying earnings per share EPS major reservoirs of brownfield land with significant capacity to Underlying earnings divided by the weighted average number accommodate new housing, commercial and other developments of shares in issue during the year.
linked to existing or potential improvements to public transport Weighted average unexpired lease term accessibility.
Typically, they can accommodate at least 5,000 jobs The unexpired lease term to lease expiry weighted by ERV for or 2,500 new homes or a combination of the two, along with other each lease.
WCC Passing rent Westminster City Council.
Contracted annual rents receivable at the balance sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting adjustments made in respect of Zone A rent-free periods or tenant lease incentives, the reclassification of A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space certain lease payments as finance charges or any irrecoverable costs by dividing it in to zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most and expenses, and does not include excess turnover rent, additional valuable zone, Zone A, falls within a 6m depth of the shop frontage.
rent in respect of unsettled rent reviews or sundry income.
Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone in front of Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in administration it.
The blend is referred to as being ITZA In Terms of Zone A. are excluded.
140 140 Capco Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018
