revenue standard only to the current period consolidated financial statements and record a cumulative-effect adjustment to the December 1,2018opening balance of retained earnings, if any.
We have completed our evaluation of changes to our revenues using the five-step model supported bythe newrevenue standard.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS15onour consolidated financial statements relates to the gross presentation of prepaid travel agent commissions, shore excursions and other onboard revenues and costs which were historically presented net and will require additional disclosures.
Theadoption of this guidance will not have a material impact to the timing of our recognition of revenues.
TheIASBissued a newstandard, IFRS9, Financial Instruments, which replaces the previous standard and will include changes onclassification, measurement and derecognition of financial instruments, including a new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment onfinancial assets, and newgeneral hedge accounting requirements.
This standard is required to be adopted byus for the financial year commencing December 1, 2018.
Theadoption of this guidance will not have a material impact onour consolidated financial statements.
This standard will result in almost all leases being recognized onthe balance sheet as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed for lessees.
Theonly exceptions are short-term and low-value leases.
Thetotal operating lease expense will be replaced with depreciation and interest expense.
This standard is required to be adopted byus for the financial year commencing December 1,2019.
Based onour assessment to date, the initial adoption of this guidance is expected to increase both our total assets and total liabilities and will require some additional disclosures.
We are evaluating certain contractual arrangements to determine if they contain an implicit right to use an asset that wouldqualify as a leasing arrangement under the newguidance.
TheIASBhas issued amendments to the standard, IFRS3, BusinessCombinations, aimed at resolving the difficulties that arise whenan entity determines whether it has acquired a business or a group of assets.
The amendment is required to be adopted byus for the financial year commencing in December 1,2021ona prospective basis.
Theadoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements.
NOTE 3 Segment Information Aspreviously discussed, within the DLCarrangement, the most appropriate presentation of Carnival plcs results and financial position is byreference to the DLCFinancial Statements, which are included in Annex1, but donot form part of these Carnival plc financial statements.
Carnival Corporation & plc revised its operating segments due to changes in its internal reporting as a result of the recent strategic realignment of the business in Australia.
Thepresentation of prior period segment information has been revised to reflect this change.
Theoperating segments are reported onthe same basis as the internally reported information that is provided to the chief operating decision maker CODM, whois the President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc.
TheCODMassesses performance and makes decisions to allocate resources for Carnival Corporation & plc based uponreview of the results across all of the segments.
Carnival Corporation & plc has four reportable segments comprised of 1 NAAcruise operations, 2 EAcruise operations, 3 Cruise Support and 4 Tour and Other.
Theoperating segments within each of the NAAand EAreportable segments have been aggregated based onthe similarity of their economic and other characteristics.
TheCruise Support segment includes Carnival Corporation & plcs portfolio of leading port destinations and other services, all of which are operated for the benefit of its cruise brands.
TheTour and Other segment represents the hotel and transportation operations of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours and other operations.
S. GAAPvs IFRSaccounting differences principally relate to differences in the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles, ships and related depreciation expenses.
Theeliminations include ship charters between Carnival Corporation and the Group.
Revenues bygeographic areas, which are based onwhere our guests are sourced, were as follows: Years Ended November 30, inmillions 2018 2017 Europe $ 5,392 $ 4,836 Australia and Asia 2,090 2,039 North America 621 553 Others 231 202 $ 8,335 $ 7,630 Substantially all of our long-lived assets consist of our ships and move between geographic areas.
Segment information relating to liabilities is not reported to or used bythe CODMin order to assess performance and allocate resources to a segment.
