NOTE 7 Contingencies Litigation In the normal course of our business, various claims and lawsuits have been filed or are pending against us.
Most of these claims and lawsuits, or any settlement of claims and lawsuits, are covered by insurance and the maximum amount of our liability, net of any insurance recoverables, is typically limited to our self-insurance retention levels.
We believe the ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits, and settlements, as applicable, each and in the aggregate, will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 Some of the debt contracts we enter into include indemnification provisions obligating us to make payments to the counterparty if certain events occur.
These contingencies generally relate to changes in taxes or changes in laws which increase our lenders costs.
There are no stated or notional amounts included in the indemnification clauses, and we are not able to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these indemnification clauses.
NOTE 8 Taxation A summary of our principal taxes and exemptions in the jurisdictions where our significant operations are located is as follows: U. S. IncomeTax We are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the business of operating cruise ships in international transportation.
We also own and operate, among other businesses, the U. S. hotel and transportation business of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours through U. S. corporations.
Our North American cruise ship businesses and certain ship-owning subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business within the U. S. Depending on its itinerary, any particular ship may generate income from sources within the U. S. We believe that our U. S. source income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, to the extent derived from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships, is currently exempt from U. S. federal income and branch profit taxes.
Our domestic U. S. operations, principally the hotel and transportation business of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours, are subject to federal and state income taxation in the U. S. In general, under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain non-U.
S. corporations such as our North American cruise ship businesses are not subject to U. S. federal income tax or branch profits tax on U. S. source income derived from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships.
Applicable U. S. Treasury regulations provide in general that a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of Section 883 if, in relevant part, i the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the U. S. in respect of each category of shipping income for which an exemption is being claimed under Section 883 an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and ii the foreign corporation meets a defined publicly-traded corporation stock ownership test the publicly-traded test.
Subsidiaries of foreign corporations that are organized in an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and meet the publicly-traded test also benefit from Section 883.
We believe that Panama is an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and that Carnival Corporation currently satisfies the publicly-traded test under the regulations.
Accordingly, substantially all of Carnival Corporations income is exempt from U. S. federal income and branch profit taxes.
Regulations under Section 883 list certain activities that the Internal Revenue Service IRS does not consider to be incidental to the international operation of ships and, therefore, the income attributable to such activities, to the extent such income is U. S. source, does not qualify for the Section 883 exemption.
Among the activities identified as not incidental are income from the sale of air transportation, transfers, shore excursions and preand post-cruise land packages to the extent earned from sources within the U. S. 21 Annex 1 DLC Annual Report We believe that the U. S. source transportation income earned by Carnival plc and its subsidiaries currently qualifies for exemption from U. S. federal income tax under applicable bilateral U. S. income tax treaties.
Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc and certain of their subsidiaries are subject to various U. S. state income taxes generally imposed on each states portion of the U. S. source income subject to U. S. federal income taxes.
However, the state of Alaska imposes an income tax on its allocated portion of the total income of our companies doing business in Alaska and certain of their subsidiaries.
 Cunard, P&O Cruises UK and P&O Cruises Australia are divisions of Carnival plc and have elected to enter the UK tonnage tax under a rolling ten-year term and, accordingly, reapply every year.
Companies to which the tonnage tax regime applies pay corporation taxes on profits calculated by reference to the net tonnage of qualifying ships.
UK corporation tax is not chargeable under the normal UK tax rules on these brands relevant shipping income.
Relevant shipping income includes income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities.
For a company to be eligible for the regime, it must be subject to UK corporation tax and, among other matters, operate qualifying ships that are strategically and commercially managed in the UK.
Companies within UK tonnage tax are also subject to a seafarer training requirement.
Our UK non-shipping activities that do not qualify under the UK tonnage tax regime remain subject to normal UK corporation tax.
Dividends received from subsidiaries of Carnival plc doing business outside the UK are generally exempt from UK corporation tax.
P&O Cruises Australia and all of the other cruise ships operated internationally by Carnival plc for the cruise segment of the Australian vacation region are exempt from Australian corporation tax by virtue of the UK Australian income tax treaty.
 In early 2015, Costa and AIDA re-elected to enter the Italian tonnage tax regime through 2024 and can reapply for an additional ten-year period beginning in early 2025.
Companies to which the tonnage tax regime applies pay corporation taxes on shipping profits calculated by reference to the net tonnage of qualifying ships.
Most of Costas and AIDAs earnings that are not eligible for taxation under the Italian tonnage tax regime will be taxed at an effective tax rate of 4.8%.
Substantially all of AIDAs earnings are exempt from German income taxes by virtue of the Germany Italy income tax treaty.
 Substantially all of our brands income from their international operations in Asian countries is exempt from income tax by virtue of relevant income tax treaties.
Other We recognize income tax provisions for uncertain tax positions, based solely on their technical merits, when it is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the relevant tax authority.
The tax benefit to be recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution.
Based on all known facts and circumstances and current tax law, we believe that the total amount of our uncertain income tax position liabilities and related accrued interest are not significant to our financial position.
All interest expense related to income tax liabilities is included in income tax expense.
