 In early 2015, Costa and AIDAre-elected to enter the Italian tonnage tax regime through 2024and can reapply for an additional ten-year period beginning in early 2025.
Companies to which the tonnage tax regime applies pay corporation taxes onshipping profits calculated byreference to the net tonnage of qualifying ships.
Most of Costas and AIDAsearnings that are not eligible for taxation under the Italian tonnage tax regime will be taxed at an effective tax rate of 4.8%.
Substantially all of AIDAsearnings are exempt from German income taxes byvirtue of the Germany Italy income tax treaty.
 Substantially all of our brands income from their international operations in Asian countries is exempt from income tax byvirtue of relevant income tax treaties.
U. S. IncomeTax Ourdomestic U. S. operations, principally the hotel and transportation business of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours, are subject to federal and state income taxation in the U. S. We believe that the U. S. source transportation income earned byCarnival plc and its subsidiaries currently qualifies for exemption from U. S. federal income tax under applicable bilateral U. S. income tax treaties.
Other We recognize income tax provisions for uncertain tax positions, based solely ontheir technical merits, and the most likely outcome to be sustained uponexamination bythe relevant tax authority.
Based onall knownfacts and circumstances and current tax law, webelieve that the total amount of our uncertain income tax position liabilities and related accrued interest are not significant to our financial position.
All interest expense related to income tax liabilities is included in income tax expense.
We donot expect to incur income taxes onfuture distributions of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries and, accordingly, nodeferred income taxes have been provided for the distribution of these earnings.
In addition to or in place of income taxes, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose taxes, fees and other charges based onguest counts, ship tonnage, passenger capacity or some other measure, and these taxes, fees and other charges are included in commissions, transportation and other costs and other ship operating expenses.
NOTE 6 Earnings Per Share Years Ended November 30, inmillions, except persharedata 2018 2017 Net income for basic and diluted earnings per share $ 1,164 $ 884 Weighted-average shares outstanding 204 214 Dilutive effect of equity plans 1 Diluted weighted-average shares outstanding 204 215 Basic earnings per share $ 5.71 $ 4.13 Diluted earnings per share $ 5.70 $ 4.11 Under the contracts governing the DLCarrangement, the Carnival Corporation & plc consolidated earnings accrue equally to each share of Carnival Corporation common stock and each Carnival plc ordinary share and for this reason wealso provide the U. S. GAAPearnings per share for Carnival Corporation & plc in the Group Statements of Income.
Thedilutive effect of equity plans relate to ordinary shares to be issued onvesting of restricted stock units, performance-based share awards and market-based share awards.
Thecalculation of weighted-average shares outstanding does not include treasury shares.
