including counterparty nonperformance primarily associated with our cash equivalents, investments, committed financing facilities, contingent obligations, derivative instruments, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees, by: Conducting business with large, well-established financial institutions, insurance companies and export credit agencies Diversifying our counterparties Having guidelines regarding credit ratings and investment maturities that we follow to help safeguard liquidity and minimize risk Generally requiring collateral and or guarantees to support notes receivable on significant asset sales, long-term ship charters and new ship progress payments to shipyards We believe the risk of nonperformance by any of our significant counterparties is remote.
At November 30, 2018, our exposures under foreign currency contracts and interest rate swap agreements were not material.
We also monitor the creditworthiness of travel agencies and tour operators in Asia, Australia and Europe, which includes charter-hire agreements in Asia and credit and debit card providers to which we extend credit in the normal course of our business.
Our credit exposure also includes contingent obligations related to cash payments received directly by travel agents and tour operators for cash collected by them on cruise sales in Australia and most of Europe where we are obligated to honor our guests cruise payments made by them to their travel agents and tour operators regardless of whether we have received these payments.
Concentrations of credit risk associated with these trade receivables, charter-hire agreements and contingent obligations are not considered to be material, principally due to the large number of unrelated accounts, the nature of these contingent obligations and their short maturities.
We have not experienced significant credit losses on our trade receivables, charter-hire agreements and contingent obligations.
We do not normally require collateral or other security to support normal credit sales.
NOTE 11 Segment Information Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, we revised our operating segments due to changes in our internal reporting as a result of the recent strategic realignment of our business in Australia.
The presentation of prior period segment information has been revised to reflect this change.
Our operating segments are reported on the same basis as the internally reported information that is provided to our chief operating decision maker CODM, who is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc.
The CODM assesses performance and makes decisions to allocate resources for Carnival Corporation & plc based upon review of the results across all of our segments.
Our four reportable segments are comprised of 1 NAA cruise operations, 2 EA cruise operations, 3 Cruise Support and 4 Tour and Other.
The operating segments within each of our NAA and EA reportable segments have been aggregated based on the similarity of their economic and other characteristics.
Our Cruise Support segment includes our portfolio of leading port destinations and other services, all of which are operated for the benefit of our cruise brands.
Our Tour and Other segment represents the hotel and transportation operations of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours and other operations.
