CARNIVAL PLC NOTES TO GROUP AND COMPANY IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 General  Carnival plc wasincorporated in England and Wales in 2000and its headquarters is located at Carnival House, 100Harbour Parade, Southampton, Hampshire, SO151ST, UK registration number 04039524.
Carnival plc the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are referred to collectively in these financial statements as the Group, our, us and we.
Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc, together with their consolidated subsidiaries, are referred to collectively in these financial statements as Carnival Corporation & plc.
Carnival Corporation & plc is the worlds largest leisure travel company and among the most profitable and financially strong in the cruise and vacation industries.
Carnival Corporation & plc is also the largest cruise company, carrying nearly half of global cruise guests, and a leading provider of vacations to all major cruise destinations throughout the world.
With operations in North America, Australia, Europe and Asia, Carnival Corporation & plc operates a portfolio of leading global, regional and national cruise brands that sell tailored cruise products, services and vacation experiences on104cruise ships 49 ships operated byCarnival plc to the worlds most desirable destinations.
DLCArrangement Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc operate a dual listed company DLC arrangement, whereby the businesses of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are combined through a number of contracts and provisions in Carnival Corporations Articles of Incorporation and By-Lawsand Carnival plcs Articles of Association.
The twocompanies operate as a single economic enterprise with a single senior executive management team and identical Boards of Directors, but each has retained its separate legal identity.
Each companys shares are publicly traded: onthe NewYorkStock Exchange NYSE for Carnival Corporation and the LondonStock Exchange LSE for Carnival plc.
TheCarnival plc American Depository Shares are traded onthe NYSE.
Theconstitutional documents of each company provide that, onmost matters, the holders of the common equity of both companies effectively vote as a single body.
TheEqualization and Governance Agreement between Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc provides for the equalization of dividends and liquidation distributions based onan equalization ratio and contains provisions relating to the governance of the DLCarrangement.
Because the equalization ratio is 1to 1, one share of Carnival Corporation common stock and one Carnival plc ordinary share are generally entitled to the same distributions.
Under deeds of guarantee executed in connection with the DLCarrangement, as well as stand-alone guarantees executed since that time, each of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc have effectively cross guaranteed all indebtedness and certain other monetary obligations of each other.
Oncethe written demand is made, the holders of indebtedness or other obligations may immediately commence an action against the relevant guarantor.
Under the terms of the DLCarrangement, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are permitted to transfer assets between the companies, make loans to or investments in each other and otherwise enter into intercompany transactions.
In addition, the cash flows and assets of one company are required to be used to pay the obligations of the other company, if necessary.
TheBoards of Directors consider that within the DLCarrangement, the most appropriate presentation of Carnival plcs results and financial position is byreference to the U. S. generally accepted accounting principles U. S. GAAP DLCFinancial Statements because all significant financial and operating decisions affecting the DLC companies are made ona joint basis to optimize the consolidated performance as a single economic entity.
Accordingly, the DLCFinancial Statements are provided to shareholders as other information, which are included in Annex1, but donot form part of these Carnival plc financial statements.
NOTE 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies BasisofPreparation TheCarnival plc Groupand Company financial statements are presented in U. S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
Theyare prepared onthe historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments that are stated at fair value.
