Operating lease payments are charged to operating expense ona straight-line basis over the lease term.
Company AtNovember 30,2018, the Company had $3.0billion $2.0 billion in 2017 of contracted capital commitments relating to ship construction contracts.
NOTE 22 Contingencies In the normal course of our business, various claims and lawsuits have been filed or are pending against us.
Most of these claims and lawsuits, or any settlement of claims and lawsuits, are covered byinsurance and the maximum amount of our liability, net of any insurance recoverables, is typically limited to our self-insurance retention levels.
We believe the ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits, and settlements, as applicable, each and in the aggregate, will not have a material impact onthe Carnival plc Groupand Company financial statements.
Some of the debt contracts weenter into include indemnification provisions obligating us to make payments to the counterparty if certain events occur.
These contingencies generally relate to changes in taxes or changes in laws which increase our lenders costs.
There are nostated or notional amounts included in the indemnification clauses, and weare not able to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these indemnification clauses.
TheGrouphas not been required to make any material payments under similar indemnification clauses in the past and wedonot believe a request for material future indemnification payments is probable.
NOTE 23 Fair Value Measurements, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and Financial Risk Fair Value Measurements Fair value is defined as the amount that wouldbe received for selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and is measured using inputs in one of the following three categories: Level 1measurements are based onunadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that wehave the ability to access.
Valuation of these items does not entail a significant amount of judgement.
