NOTE 7 Contingencies Litigation In the normal course of our business, various claims and lawsuits have been filed or are pending against us.
Most of these claims and lawsuits, or any settlement of claims and lawsuits, are covered by insurance and the maximum amount of our liability, net of any insurance recoverables, is typically limited to our self-insurance retention levels.
We believe the ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits, and settlements, as applicable, each and in the aggregate, will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 Some of the debt contracts we enter into include indemnification provisions obligating us to make payments to the counterparty if certain events occur.
These contingencies generally relate to changes in taxes or changes in laws which increase our lenders costs.
There are no stated or notional amounts included in the indemnification clauses, and we are not able to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these indemnification clauses.
NOTE 8 Taxation A summary of our principal taxes and exemptions in the jurisdictions where our significant operations are located is as follows: U. S. IncomeTax We are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the business of operating cruise ships in international transportation.
We also own and operate, among other businesses, the U. S. hotel and transportation business of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours through U. S. corporations.
Our North American cruise ship businesses and certain ship-owning subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business within the U. S. Depending on its itinerary, any particular ship may generate income from sources within the U. S. We believe that our U. S. source income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, to the extent derived from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships, is currently exempt from U. S. federal income and branch profit taxes.
Our domestic U. S. operations, principally the hotel and transportation business of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours, are subject to federal and state income taxation in the U. S. In general, under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code, certain non-U.
S. corporations such as our North American cruise ship businesses are not subject to U. S. federal income tax or branch profits tax on U. S. source income derived from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships.
Applicable U. S. Treasury regulations provide in general that a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of Section 883 if, in relevant part, i the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the U. S. in respect of each category of shipping income for which an exemption is being claimed under Section 883 an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and ii the foreign corporation meets a defined publicly-traded corporation stock ownership test the publicly-traded test.
Subsidiaries of foreign corporations that are organized in an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and meet the publicly-traded test also benefit from Section 883.
We believe that Panama is an equivalent exemption jurisdiction and that Carnival Corporation currently satisfies the publicly-traded test under the regulations.
Accordingly, substantially all of Carnival Corporations income is exempt from U. S. federal income and branch profit taxes.
Regulations under Section 883 list certain activities that the Internal Revenue Service IRS does not consider to be incidental to the international operation of ships and, therefore, the income attributable to such activities, to the extent such income is U. S. source, does not qualify for the Section 883 exemption.
Among the activities identified as not incidental are income from the sale of air transportation, transfers, shore excursions and preand post-cruise land packages to the extent earned from sources within the U. S. 21 Annex 1 DLC Annual Report
