CARNIVAL PLC NOTES TO GROUP AND COMPANY IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 General  Carnival plc wasincorporated in England and Wales in 2000and its headquarters is located at Carnival House, 100Harbour Parade, Southampton, Hampshire, SO151ST, UK registration number 04039524.
Carnival plc the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are referred to collectively in these financial statements as the Group, our, us and we.
Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc, together with their consolidated subsidiaries, are referred to collectively in these financial statements as Carnival Corporation & plc.
Carnival Corporation & plc is the worlds largest leisure travel company and among the most profitable and financially strong in the cruise and vacation industries.
Carnival Corporation & plc is also the largest cruise company, carrying nearly half of global cruise guests, and a leading provider of vacations to all major cruise destinations throughout the world.
With operations in North America, Australia, Europe and Asia, Carnival Corporation & plc operates a portfolio of leading global, regional and national cruise brands that sell tailored cruise products, services and vacation experiences on104cruise ships 49 ships operated byCarnival plc to the worlds most desirable destinations.
DLCArrangement Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc operate a dual listed company DLC arrangement, whereby the businesses of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are combined through a number of contracts and provisions in Carnival Corporations Articles of Incorporation and By-Lawsand Carnival plcs Articles of Association.
The twocompanies operate as a single economic enterprise with a single senior executive management team and identical Boards of Directors, but each has retained its separate legal identity.
Each companys shares are publicly traded: onthe NewYorkStock Exchange NYSE for Carnival Corporation and the LondonStock Exchange LSE for Carnival plc.
TheCarnival plc American Depository Shares are traded onthe NYSE.
Theconstitutional documents of each company provide that, onmost matters, the holders of the common equity of both companies effectively vote as a single body.
TheEqualization and Governance Agreement between Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc provides for the equalization of dividends and liquidation distributions based onan equalization ratio and contains provisions relating to the governance of the DLCarrangement.
Because the equalization ratio is 1to 1, one share of Carnival Corporation common stock and one Carnival plc ordinary share are generally entitled to the same distributions.
Under deeds of guarantee executed in connection with the DLCarrangement, as well as stand-alone guarantees executed since that time, each of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc have effectively cross guaranteed all indebtedness and certain other monetary obligations of each other.
Oncethe written demand is made, the holders of indebtedness or other obligations may immediately commence an action against the relevant guarantor.
Under the terms of the DLCarrangement, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are permitted to transfer assets between the companies, make loans to or investments in each other and otherwise enter into intercompany transactions.
In addition, the cash flows and assets of one company are required to be used to pay the obligations of the other company, if necessary.
TheBoards of Directors consider that within the DLCarrangement, the most appropriate presentation of Carnival plcs results and financial position is byreference to the U. S. generally accepted accounting principles U. S. GAAP DLCFinancial Statements because all significant financial and operating decisions affecting the DLC companies are made ona joint basis to optimize the consolidated performance as a single economic entity.
Accordingly, the DLCFinancial Statements are provided to shareholders as other information, which are included in Annex1, but donot form part of these Carnival plc financial statements.
NOTE 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies BasisofPreparation TheCarnival plc Groupand Company financial statements are presented in U. S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
Theyare prepared onthe historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments that are stated at fair value.
64 These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted bythe European Unionand with those parts of the Companies Act 2006applicable to companies reporting under IFRSand International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee interpretations.
Thefinancial statements have been prepared ona going concern basis.
TheBoard of Directors of the Grouphave a reasonable expectation that, onthe basis of current financial projections and available borrowing facilities and based onour reassessment of principal risks, weare well positioned to meet our commitments and obligations, and will remain in operational existence for at least the next 12months from the date of this report.
Thepreparation of these financial statements in conformity with IFRSrequires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported and disclosed amounts in these financial statements.
Theestimates and underlying assumptions are based onhistorical experience and various other factors that webelieve to be reasonable under the circumstances and form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from the estimates used in preparing these financial statements.
Theestimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed onan ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Areview of the critical accounting estimates and judgements made bymanagement is disclosed in Critical Accounting Estimates within the Business Reviewsection of the Strategic Report and in the Significant Accounting Judgements within AnnexC, Carnival plc Corporate Governance Report.
These disclosures form part of the financial statements.
BasisofConsolidation TheCarnival plc Groupfinancial statements include the results of the Company and all of its controlled subsidiaries, which subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Grouphas control.
TheGroupcontrols an entity whenthe Groupis exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the entity.
All significant intra-Group balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
These financial statements are required to satisfy reporting requirements of the Companies Act 2006and donot include the IFRS consolidated results and financial position of Carnival Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Thefollowing are included as part of the 2018Carnival plc annual accounts and reports: Strategic Report a Notice of Annual Meetings and Proxy statement Proxy Statement dated January 28,2019 Included in or annexed to the Proxy Statement are: Carnival plc Directors Remuneration Report Part I AnnexACarnival plc Directors Report a AnnexBCarnival plc Directors Remuneration Report Part II AnnexCCarnival plc Corporate Governance Report a a Additional information related to environmental, social and governance issues are included in these documents.
Theabove mentioned Proxy Statement information can be found at the Carnival Corporation & plc website at www.
Inventories Inventories consist substantially of food, beverages, hotel supplies, fuel and gift shop merchandise, which are all carried at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted-average or first-in, first-out methods.
65 Carnival plc Financial Statements PropertyandEquipment Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over our estimates of useful lives and residual values, as a percentage of original cost, as follows: Residual Years Values Ships 30 15% Ship improvements 3-30 0% Buildings and improvements 10-40 0% or 10% Computer hardware and software 3-12 0% or 10% Transportation equipment and other 3-20 0% or 10% Leasehold improvements, including port facilities Shorter of the remaining lease term 0% or related asset life 3-30 Thecost of ships under construction include progress payments for the construction of newships, as well as design and engineering fees, capitalised interest, construction oversight costs and various owner supplied items.
We account for ship improvement costs bycapitalising those costs webelieve add value to our ships and have a useful life greater than one year and depreciate those improvements over their estimated useful life.
We have a capital program for the improvement of our ships and for asset replacements in order to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of our operations: to comply with, or exceed all relevant legal and statutory requirements related to health, environment, safety, security and sustainability: and to gain strategic benefits or provide improved product innovations to our guests.
We capitalise interest as part of the cost of capital projects during their construction period.
Thespecifically identified or estimated cost and accumulated depreciation of previously capitalised ship components are written-off uponretirement, which may result in a loss ondisposal that is also included in other ship operating expenses.
Liquidated damages received from shipyards as a result of late ship delivery are recorded as reductions to the cost basis of the ship.
Thecosts of repairs and maintenance, including minor improvement costs and dry-dock expenses, are charged to expense as incurred and included in other ship operating expenses.
Dry-dock expenses primarily represent planned major maintenance activities that are incurred whena ship is taken out-of-service for scheduled maintenance.
We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be fully recoverable.
Uponthe occurrence of a triggering event, the assessment of possible impairment is based onour ability to recover the carrying value of our asset based onour estimate of its recoverable amount, which is the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
This is determined byusing the assets estimated discounted future cash flows.
If these estimated discounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, an impairment charge is recognized for the excess.
Thelowest level for which wemaintain identifiable cash flows is at the individual ship level.
If subsequent to the impairment there has been a change in the estimates used to determine our ships recoverable amount, then the carrying amount of the ship may be increased bythe reversal of the impairment.
Thereversal is limited to the carrying amount that wouldhave been determined had noimpairment loss been recognized for the ship in prior years.
Asignificant amount of judgement is required in estimating the future cash flows and fair values of our cruise ships.
Thedetermination of value in use includes numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, unless a comparable, viable actively-traded market exists, which is usually not the case for cruise ships.
Ourships value in use are typically estimated based either onship sales price negotiations and the associated probability of the ship selling and or discounted future cash flows.
We believe that wehave made reasonable estimates and judgements in determining whether ships have been impaired, or reversals have been recognized.
However, if there is a change in assumptions used or if there is a change in the conditions or circumstances influencing fair values in the future, wemay need to recognize an impairment loss or reversal.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in a business acquisition.
We review our goodwill for impairment at least annually and as events or circumstances 66 dictate.
All of our goodwill has been allocated to our reporting units and is stated at cost less accumulated goodwill impairment charges.
Therecoverability of goodwill is determined bycomparing the carrying amount of the net assets allocated to each cash-generating unit CGU with its recoverable amount.
Theestimated recoverable amount is the higher of the cruise brands fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
If the recoverable amount is greater than the cruise brand net asset carrying value, then the goodwill amount is deemed recoverable.
Asignificant amount of judgement is required in estimating the recoverable amounts of our cruise brands goodwill.
 We utilize derivative and non-derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency forwards, options and swaps, foreign currency debt obligations and foreign currency cash balances, to manage our exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currency exchange rates.
We use interest rate swaps to manage our interest rate exposure to achieve a desired proportion of fixed and floating rate debt.
Ourpolicy is to not use any financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
All derivatives are recorded at fair value.
If a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, then the effective portion of the changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income AOCI until the underlying hedged item is recognized in earnings or the forecasted transaction is nolonger probable.
If a derivative or a non-derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of our net investment in a foreign operation, then changes in the fair value of the financial instrument are recognized as a component of AOCIto offset a portion of the change in the translated value of the net investment being hedged until the investment is sold or substantially liquidated.
Anyineffective portion is immediately recognized in earnings.
For derivatives that donot qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the change in fair value is recognized in earnings.
We classify the fair value of all our derivative contracts as either current or long-term, depending onthe maturity date of the derivative contract.
Thecash flows from derivatives treated as hedges are classified in our Consolidated Statements of CashFlowsin the same category as the item being hedged.
We measure our derivatives using valuations that are calibrated to the initial trade prices.
Subsequent valuations are based onobservable inputs and other variables included in the valuation model such as interest rate, forward currency exchange rates, credit spreads, maturity dates, volatilities and netting arrangements.
We use the income approach to value derivatives for foreign currency options and forwards, and interest rate swaps using observable market data for all significant inputs and standard valuation techniques to convert future amounts to a single present value amount, assuming that participants are motivated but not compelled to transact.
 Each foreign entity determines its functional currency byreference to its primary economic environment.
We translate the assets and liabilities of our foreign entities that have functional currencies other than the U. S. dollar at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
Revenues and expenses of these foreign entities are translated at weighted-average exchange rates for the period.
Equity is translated at historical rates and the resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are included in the translation reserve, which is a separate component of other reserves within shareholders equity.
Therefore, the U. S. dollar value of these non-equity translated items in our financial statements will fluctuate from period to period, depending onthe changing value of the U. S. dollar versus these currencies.
We execute transactions in a number of different currencies.
Atthe date that the transaction is recognized, each asset, liability, revenue, expense, gain or loss arising from the transaction is measured and recorded in the functional currency of the recording entity using the exchange rate in effect at that date.
Ateach balance sheet date, recorded monetary balances denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are adjusted using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, with gains or losses recorded in other income or other expense, unless such monetary balances have been designated as hedges of net investments in our foreign entities.
Thenet gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions were net losses of $89million in 2018and net gains of $177million in 2017.
Theunrealised gains or losses onour long-term intercompany receivables and payables which are denominated in a non-functional currency and are not expected to be repaid in the foreseeable future are recorded in translation reserves.
67 Carnival plc Financial Statements  Guest cruise deposits represent unearned revenues and are initially included in customer deposit liabilities when received.
Customer deposits are subsequently recognized as cruise revenues, together with revenues from onboard and other activities, and all associated direct costs and expenses of voyages are recognized as cruise costs and expenses, uponcompletion of voyages with durations of ten nights or less and ona pro rata basis for voyages in excess of ten nights.
Theimpact of recognising these shorter duration cruise revenues and costs and expenses ona completed voyage basis versus ona pro rata basis is not significant.
Future travel discount vouchers are included as a reduction of cruise passenger ticket revenues whensuch vouchers are utilised.
Guest cancellation fees are recognized in cruise passenger ticket revenues at the time of cancellation.
Revenue is recognized net of expected discounts.
Oursale to guests of air and other transportation to and from airports near the home ports of our ships are included in cruise passenger ticket revenues, and the related cost of purchasing these services are included in cruise transportation costs.
Theproceeds that wecollect from the sales of third-party shore excursions and on behalf of our onboard concessionaires, net of the amounts remitted to them, are included in onboard and other cruise revenues as concession revenues.
All of these amounts are recognized ona completed voyage or pro rata basis as discussed above.
Cruise passenger ticket revenues include fees, taxes and charges collected byus from our guests.
Aportion of these fees, taxes and charges vary with guest head counts and are directly imposed ona revenue-producing arrangement.
This portion of the fees, taxes and charges is expensed in commissions, transportation and other costs whenthe corresponding revenues are recognized.
Theremaining portion of fees, taxes and charges are also included in cruise passenger ticket revenues and are expensed in other ship operating expenses whenthe corresponding revenues are recognized.
Revenues and expenses from our hotel and transportation operations, which are included in our Tour and Other segment, are recognized at the time the services are performed or expenses are incurred.
Revenues from the longterm leasing of ships, which are also included in our Tour and Other segment, are recognized ratably over the term of the agreement.
Insurance We maintain insurance under Carnival Corporation & plcs insurance programs to cover a number of risks including illness and injury to crew, guest injuries, pollution, other third-party claims in connection with our cruise activities, damage to hull and machinery for each of our ships, war risks, workers compensation, directors and officers liability, property damage and general liability for shoreside third-party claims.
We recognize insurance recoverables from third-party insurers for recorded losses at the time the recovery is virtually certain or uponsettlement for amounts in excess of the recorded losses.
All of our insurance policies are subject to coverage limits, exclusions and deductible levels.
Theliabilities associated with crew illnesses and crew and guest injury claims, including all legal costs, are estimated based onthe specific merits of the individual claims or actuarially estimated based onhistorical claims experience, loss development factors and other assumptions.
 Selling expenses include a broad range of advertising, marketing and promotional expenses.
Advertising is charged to expense as incurred.
Selling expenses totaled $322million in 2018and $298million in 2017.
Administrative expenses represent the costs of our shoreside ship support, reservations and other administrative functions, and include salaries and related benefits, professional fees and building occupancy costs, which are typically expensed as incurred.
 We recognize compensation expense for all share-based compensation awards using the fair value method.
For time-based share awards, werecognize compensation cost ratably using the straight-line attribution method over the expected vesting period or to the retirement eligibility date, if earlier than the vesting period.
For performance-based share awards, weestimate compensation cost based onthe probability of the performance condition being achieved and recognize expense ratably using the straight-line attribution method over the expected vesting period.
If all or a portion of the performance condition is not expected to be met, the appropriate amount of previously recognized compensation expense is reversed and future compensation expense is adjusted 68 accordingly.
For market-based share awards, werecognize compensation cost ratably using the straight-line attribution method over the expected vesting period.
If the target market conditions are not expected to be met, compensation expense will still be recognized.
EarningsPerShare Basic earnings per share is computed bydividing net income bythe weighted-average number of shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted earnings per share is computed bydividing net income bythe weightedaverage number of shares and common stock equivalents outstanding during each period.
Pensions TheGroupoperates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Thenet deficit or surplus for each defined benefit pension plan is calculated based onthe present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets.
Thecalculation is performed bya qualified external actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Thediscount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date onAA credit rated bonds or local equivalents that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the pension plans obligations.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the defined benefit pension plans obligations are recognized in the period in which they arise directly in the Groups and Companys comprehensive income.
Theoperating and financing costs of defined benefit pension plans are recognized in the Statements of Income: current service costs are spread systematically over the expected average remaining service lives of employees and financing costs are recognized in the periods within which they arise.
Tothe extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognized immediately.
Defined contribution plan expenses are recognized in the period to which they relate.
We contribute to these plans based onemployee contributions, salary levels and length of service.
IncomeTaxes Deferred income taxes are provided using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income taxes are measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based ontax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted bythe balance sheet date.
Current income taxes are the taxes payable onthe taxable income for the year, applying current rates and any adjustments in respect of previous years.
Dividends Dividend distributions are recognized in the period in which the dividends are declared because under the DLC arrangement, the declaration of a dividend bythe Boards of Directors of Carnival Corporation & plc establishes a liability for Carnival plc.
 TheInternational Accounting Standards Board IASB issued amendments to the standard, IAS7, Statement of CashFlows, which requires an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes.
OnDecember 1,2017, weadopted the amendments of IAS7and included incremental disclosures in our financial statements.
This standard will replace IAS18which covers contracts for goods and services and IAS11which covers construction contracts.
IFRS15 requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled whenthe transfer of control of the promised goods or services passes to the customers.
Thestandard also requires more detailed disclosures and provides additional guidance for transactions that were not comprehensively addressed under current IFRS, and introduces the use of a model.
This guidance is required to be adopted byus in the first quarter of 2019.
We have elected the modified retrospective adoption method which requires entities to apply the new 69 Carnival plc Financial Statements
