FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Current reporting period amendments 1.1 Changes in critical judgments and estimates The following are the updates and or changes to critical accounting judgments and estimates that management has made in the year in applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised and the disclosure of such amounts in the financial statements.
During the year, the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC conducted a review of our 2017 annual report.
The FRC had two main areas of focus which have subsequently been addressed: the accounting treatment of Sukari Gold Mining Company SGM based on control: and the treatment and disclosure of the EMRA Egyptian Mineral Resource Authority profit share and its compliance with IFRS.
The following outcomes were determined from the review: it was agreed that managements judgment and assessment of control of SGM was correct and that disclosure was to be further enhanced to reflect this: and as control of SGM had been established, EMRAs interest in SGM should be accounted for as a non-controlling interest rather than an expense line on the income statement, disclosure has been changed to reflect this.
For further information, see note 1.1.
During the year, production forecasts were reduced due to lower than forecast gold production.
The reasons for this have already been addressed elsewhere in the annual report.
The risk of not achieving production forecasts in the short term result in, among others: significant impacts on the profitability of the Group: the reduced return of profit to stakeholders: and the subsequent devaluation of the share price consequently triggered the requirement of an impairment assessment of the Group assets to occur.
To address this risk, management are improving internal controls around grade reconciliations and production forecasts which directly impacts budgeting, forecasting and profitability of the Group.
1.1 Accounting treatment of Sukari Gold Mine SGM Pharaoh Gold Mines NL holder of an Egyptian branch PGM and EMRA are 50:50 partners in SGM.
The FRC questioned managements judgment of control and resulting full consolidation of SGM as a subsidiary within the Groups financial statements.
SGM is consolidated within the Group, reflecting the substance and economic reality of the Concession Agreement CA see note 4.1 to the financial statements.
The IFRS 10 definition of control encompasses three distinct principles, which, if present, identify the existence of control by an investor over an investee, hence forming a parent-subsidiary relationship: power over the investee: exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investors returns.
An investor has power over an investee when the investor has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities i. e. the activities that significantly affect the investees returns.
The following is a list of some of the relevant activities considered which the Company directs, through PGM, in relation to the operation of the Sukari Gold Mine that most significantly affect the returns of SGM: the following activities are controlled by the Company, through PGM, by having the right to appoint or remove the managing Director of SGM under the terms of the CA: the appointment of the General Manager GM at SGM: the GM makes all the day-to-day decisions to allow the mine to operate which involve: preparing SGMs work programmes through determination of the daily and longer term mine plans, the budgets covering the operations to be carried out throughout the life of the mine and approval of the same: capital expenditure, procurement, cost control and treasury: conducting exploration, development, production and marketing operations: co-ordinating SGM operations and activities, including its dealings with all contractors and subcontractors: bearing ultimate responsibility for all costs and expenses required in carrying out any and all operations under the CA: funding the operations of SGM and recovering costs and expenses throughout the life of the mine i. e. exploration, development and production phases : funding additional exploration and expansion programmes within the mine during the production phase: custody of SGMs stock and management of its funds: selling and shipping of all gold and associated metals produced: and entering into and managing gold sales or hedging contracts and forward sale agreements: EMRA must, in terms of the CA, make the required approvals to allow the mine to operate: 156 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS role and function of the board of SGM: there are six board members: three of which are appointed by the Company, through PGM: and three of which are appointed by EMRA: the executive chairman, as one of the three EMRA appointed board members, is a representative of EMRA and is appointed by the Egyptian Ministry of Finance: it convenes twice a year to: facilitate a forum for sharing information between the owners of SGM: provide a mechanism to scrutinise the timing and amounts of expenses: rather than as a decision-making body over SGMs most significant relevant activities: consider and approve the budget, annual accounts of SGM, review and approve the cost recovery position and other compliance matters: and is not allowed to unreasonably withhold approval: resolving a deadlock position: disputed matters are resolved through open discussion at board level: the executive chairman does not have a veto or casting vote: where matters cannot be agreed upon, an ad-hoc committee is appointed with each party having equal representation.
This committee will then recommend an appropriate course of action to the board with the best interest of all shareholders in mind: and should the board still not agree on a course of action, there is a provision for arbitration and ultimately matters can be presented to the International Court of Arbitration at The Hague: the board of SGM cannot appoint or remove the GM, this right belongs solely to the Company, through PGM, in terms of the CA: EMRA and or the Egyptian government have no downside risk in their share of SGM.
If SGM were to become loss making or insolvent, these costs are absorbed in its entirety by the Company, through PGM, in accordance with the CA.
The Company is therefore exposed to the variable returns, has the ability to affect the amount of those returns, has power over SGM through its ability to direct its relevant activities and therefore meets all the criteria of control to consolidate SGMs results within the Group to reflect the substance and economic reality of the CA.
As the Company, through PGM, is determined to be the controlling party, it should consolidate its subsidiary, SGM, and should apply consolidation procedures, combining balance sheet and profit and loss items line by line as well as applying the rest of the consolidation procedures set out in IFRS 10 App B para B86.
The Group therefore prepares consolidated financial statements on this basis.
1.2 Treatment and disclosure of EMRA profit share EMRA holds 50% of the shares in the Group subsidiary, SGM, which are not attributable to the Company, and it is entitled to receive net proceeds from the operations of SGM on a residual basis in accordance with their specified shareholding per the CA this distribution is in accordance with the profit share mechanism and not as a consequence of accumulated profits as defined by accounting standards.
Therefore, the Group recognises a non-controlling interest in SGM NCI to represent EMRAs participation.
In terms of the CA, the NCIs rights to any profit share payments dividend distributions is only triggered after the cost recovery of all amounts invested or spent during operations during the exploration, construction and development stages have been repaid to PGM.
The profit share mechanism was only triggered in November 2016 after all amounts due to be cost recovered were complete.
Until that time the NCI had no rights to claim any distribution of accumulated profits or profit share.
It is important to note that the availability of cash in SGM for distribution to its shareholders as profit share is under the control of the Company, through PGM, by the decisions made on SGMs strategic direction and day-to-day operational requirements of running the mine.
This is regarded as discretionary and exposes the Company to variable returns.
Distributions to shareholders in SGM: once all expenditure requirements have been met, excess cash reserves, if any, are distributed to both SGM shareholders: distributions are always made simultaneously to both shareholders: the split of the distribution is in accordance with the ratchet mechanism i. e. the standard profit share ratios of 60 40 first two years, 55 45 second two years and 50 50 to PGM and EMRA respectively through time as governed by the CA: but: distributions are not mandatory, entirely discretionary and there are only distributions if there are excess funds: distributions are paid in advance on a weekly or fortnightly basis by mutual agreement between shareholders: at end of the SGM reporting period, final profits are determined, externally audited and then approved by the board of SGM: final profit distributions become payable within 60 days of the financial year end, SGM is unable to avoid payment at this point and the amount payable is recorded as equity attributable to the NCI until paid: the CA is merely a shareholder agreement specifying how and when profits from SGM will be distributed to shareholders and is typical of a minority shareholder protection mechanism.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Current reporting period amendments continued 1.1 Changes in critical judgments and estimates continued 1.1.
1.2 Treatment and disclosure of EMRA profit share continued The Group should attribute the profit or loss for the year after tax and each component of other comprehensive income for the year to the owners of the parent and to the NCI in SGM.
The entity shall also attribute total comprehensive income for the year to the owners of the parent and to NCI even if this results in the NCI having a deficit balance IFRS 10 App B para B94.
The CA only contemplates the distribution of profit to shareholders.
The NCI would only have a deficit balance where advance distributions paid during the year have exceeded final distributions payable after year-end accounts have been prepared and audited.
This deficit would be entirely funded by the Company, through PGM, and would first be redeemed from future excess cash before regular distributions to both parties resume.
SGM has no claw back provision for advance profits paid to the NCI.
We note that annual dividend payments, after approval of audited financial statements, is a standard feature of transactions with an NCI and that such payments are not normally treated as non-discretionary payments triggering a liability in the consolidated statement of financial position of the parent.
Any losses generated by SGM will be entirely funded by the Company, through PGM, but attributed to both shareholders.
These losses will first be recovered before further profit share distributions commence.
In the Group statement of financial position, all the accumulated profits of SGM are attributable to the Company as EMRA have already received their share through the advance profit distribution payments made, therefore NCI is usually disclosed in the financial statements as nil unless there is an outstanding distribution payable to or deficit from EMRA due to timing differences of the cash sweep.
Please refer to note 2.4 for further information.
The FRC questioned the prior presentation of the EMRA profit share below the subtotal of Profit for the year after tax as to whether it complied with IAS 1 and queried the potential inconsistency of this presentation with the measurement of the EMRA profit share payment as a financial instrument.
Having carefully considered the FRCs query and having discussed this directly with our auditors and the FRC, it was agreed that the disclosure would be amended to better reflect the nature of the arrangement.
The impact has been as follows: In the statement of comprehensive income: the EMRA profit share and Profit for the year after EMRA profit share line items have been removed: a new financial statement line item Non-controlling interest in SGM has been added to the Profit for the year after tax attributable to section, this represents EMRAs profit share interest in SGM: and earnings per share EPS, as always, has been calculated on profit attributable to owners of the parent i. e. shareholders of the Company.
1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note US$000 US$000 Profit for the year after tax 152,649 205,302 Profit for the year after tax attributable to: the owners of the parent 74,845 96,355 non-controlling interest in SGM 2.4 77,804 108,946 Total comprehensive income for the year 152,524 205,211 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: the owners of the parent 74,720 96,265 non-controlling interest in SGM 2.4 77,804 108,946 1 Restated due to change in presentation, refer to note 1.1.
158 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the statement of financial position: the EMRA accrual within Trade and other payables has been removed.
This related to their remaining interest after profit share payments in the equity of the Sukari Gold Mining Company and is now reflected at the bottom of the statement as non-controlling interest in SGM: and a new financial statement line item Non-controlling interest in SGM has been added to the Total equity attributable to section at the base of the statement and represents EMRAs profit share interest in SGM.
1 1 Restated Restated 31 December 31 December 1 January 2018 2017 2017 Note US$000 US$000 US$000 Total equity attributable to: owners of the parent 1,287,087 1,353,712 1,439,301 non-controlling interest in SGM 2.4 270 1,683 1,000 Total equity 1,286,817 1,352,029 1,440,301 1 Restated due to change in presentation, refer to note 1.1.
In the statement of changes in equity: the statement has been split into two sections: the section attributable to the owners of the parent: and the section attributable to the non-controlling interest in SGM called Non-controlling interests.
the line EMRA profit share has been removed and Profit for the year after tax has been allocated between Owners of the parent and Non-controlling interest in SGM in accordance with the segmented reporting and EMRAs interest in SGM: and as EMRAs interest in SGM is now disclosed as a non-controlling interest, the distributions to EMRA are considered to be equity rather than debt and as such a new financial statement line item Dividend paid non-controlling interest in SGM has been added which represents the profit share paid to EMRA during the year.
Accumulated Non-controlling Total profits Total interests equity Note US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year after tax 74,845 74,845 77,804 152,649 Other comprehensive income for the year 125 125 125 Total comprehensive income for the year 74,720 74,720 77,804 152,524 Dividend paid non-controlling interest in SGM 2.4 76,391 76,391 FRC review: Scope and limitations The FRC review was based on our 2017 annual report and accounts and did not benefit from a detailed knowledge of our business or an understanding of the underlying transactions entered into.
It is, however, conducted by staff of the FRC who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
The FRC supports the continuous improvement in the quality of corporate reporting and recognises that those with more detailed knowledge of our business, including our Audit and Risk Committee and auditors, may have recommendations for future improvement, consideration of which the FRC would encourage.
The letters received from the FRC during their review provide no assurance that our report and accounts are correct in all material respects: the FRCs role is not to verify the information provided but to consider compliance with reporting requirements.
The letters received from the FRC during their review are written on the basis that the FRC which includes the FRCs officers, employees and agents accepts no liability for reliance on them by the Company or any third party, including but not limited to investors and shareholders.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 159 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
2 Impairment assessment of Group assets IFRS requires management to test for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a finite live asset may not be recoverable.
Management concluded that a trigger occurred as a result of the production downgrade and the corresponding devaluation of the share price and were therefore required to perform a full impairment review under IAS 36.
On review, no impairment was required and no further indicators have arisen after the reporting period.
In making its assessment as to the possibility of whether any impairment losses had arisen, management considered the following as part of its assessment of the recoverable amount: internal sources of information: and external sources of information.
2.1 Sukari Gold Mine The revisions to production guidance at Sukari cash generating unit CGU during 2018 significantly affected the Company share price and was considered a trigger for an impairment assessment of property, plant and equipment.
The assessment compared the recoverable amount of the Sukari gold mine CGU with its carrying value for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use VIU, being the net present value NPV of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
The FVLCD is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
Cost to dispose is based on managements best estimates of future selling costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the disposal of the CGU are not considered significant.
The expected future cash flows utilised in the FVLCD model are derived from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM plan, and as a result FVLCD is considered to be higher than VIU.
The Groups LOM plan reflects proven and probable reserves, assumes limited in-situ resource conversion, and is based on detailed research, analysis and modelling to optimise the internal rate of return.
The discount rate applied to calculate the present value is based upon the real weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU.
The discount rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact of the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated with the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGU is located.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit default swap spreads for the period.
During the impairment assessment management applied the following key assumptions: long term gold price US$1,300 oz, real discount rate of 5% and an in-situ resource multiple of US$45 oz.
For purposes of testing for impairment of the Sukari CGU, we have assessed whether a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions used to estimate the recoverable value for the CGU would result in an impairment charge.
Sensitivity calculations were performed for the CGU based on: a decrease in the gold price of US$100 per ounce for 2019: a decrease in the in-situ resource multiple to US$23 oz: and a reduction in 2019 production to 480,000 ounces.
In isolation, none of the changes set out above would result in an impairment.
This sensitivity analysis also does not take into account any of managements mitigation factors should these changes occur.
2.2 Exploration and evaluation assets In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, it was concluded that the devaluation of the share price of the Company was a trigger for an impairment assessment for the Companys exploration and evaluation assets.
The assessment compared the recoverable amount of the individual Exploration and Evaluation Asset Cash Generating Units E&E CGU with their carrying value for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The recoverable amount of the E&E CGUs is assessed by reference to the higher of VIU, being the NPV of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the disposal of the E&E CGUs are not considered significant.
The expected future cash flows utilised in the FVLCD model are derived from estimates of resource multiples multiplied by proven and probable reserves of the E&E CGUs and were considered to be higher than the VIU amount.
For purposes of testing for impairment of the E&E CGUs, we have assessed whether a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions used to estimate the recoverable value would result in an impairment charge.
Sensitivity calculations were performed based on: a decrease in the in-situ resource multiple to US$16 oz: and a reduction in reserves to 3.25 million ounces.
160 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.2 Changes in policies and estimates The financial position and performance of the Group was particularly affected by the following events and transactions during the reporting period: the change in accounting policy regarding the treatment of costs related to exploration and evaluation of mineral resources under IFRS 6, which was made in the 2018 interim financial statements: previously the policy applied was to capitalise all exploration expenditure without a distinction between greenfield and brownfield exploration expenditure: this policy has been changed and retrospectively applied whereby: all greenfield exploration costs will be expensed as incurred: whilst brownfield exploration costs will continue to be capitalised.
For further information, see note 1.2.
mining stockpiles inventory has been split between current and non-current assets based on the expected drawdown on the stockpile by the processing plant: the volume of ore extracted in the year has far exceeded the capacity of the processing plant causing the stockpiles to increase significantly in size and value: based on mining and processing forecasts these stockpiles will not be consumed within the next twelve months and as such a classification is required between current and non-current assets: the cost versus net realisable value of the mining stockpiles were assessed, with the cost being determined as the lower of cost and net realisable value: and in line with the updated mineral reserves estimate for Sukari at 30 June 2018, the mine cut-off grade for the surface stockpiles has been changed from 0.3 to 0.4 grams per tonne g t. Amounts under 0.4g t have been expensed resulting in a US$5.7 million charge.
adoption of the following new and revised accounting standards: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers has been applied since 1 January 2018 with no significant impact to the annual results: and IFRS 9 Financial instruments has been applied since 1 January 2018 with no significant impact to the annual results.
new standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted: IFRS 16 Leases has been assessed by management, the impact of which has been disclosed.
1 Change in accounting policy Exploration and evaluation asset On 1 January 2006, the Group adopted IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources and as allowed under the standard, applied the policy of capitalising all exploration expenditure both greenfield and brownfield exploration and evaluation expenditure.
The greenfield and brownfield terms are generally used in the minerals sector and have been adopted to differentiate high risk remote exploration activity from near-mine exploration activity: a greenfield exploration refers to territory, where mineral deposits are not already developed and has the goal of establishing a new mine requiring new infrastructure, regardless of it being in an established mining field or in a remote location.
Greenfield exploration projects can be subdivided into grassroots and advanced projects embracing prospecting, geoscientific surveys, drilling, sample collection and testing, but excludes work of brownfields nature, pit and shaft sinking and bulk sampling: and b brownfield exploration, also known as near-mine exploration, refers to areas where mineral deposits were previously developed.
In brownfield exploration, geologists look for deposits near or adjacent to an already operating mine with the objective of extending its operating life and taking advantage of the established infrastructure.
Having reassessed the accounting policies and to make the financial statements more relevant to its users and more consistent with industry peers, it has been determined that the accounting policy for greenfield exploration and evaluation assets be retrospectively changed to expense rather than capitalise these costs until a decision is made to pursue a commercially viable project.
The rationale for this change is that: due to the early stage of the projects there is a greater risk that the projects will ultimately not become viable and hence increased risk that economic benefits will ultimately not flow to the Group.
Brownfield exploration costs will continue to be capitalised to the statement of financial position.
In accordance with IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors this revised accounting policy has to be applied retrospectively.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 161 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Current reporting period amendments continued 1.2 Changes in policies and estimates continued 1.2.
1 Change in accounting policy Exploration and evaluation asset continued The following table summarises the adjustments made to the statement of financial position on implementation of the change in accounting policy: Exploration and Accumulated evaluation asset profits US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 2017 as previously reported 153,918 857,999 Impact of change in accounting policy 88,218 88,218 Restated balance at 1 January 2017 65,700 769,781 Exploration and Accumulated evaluation asset profits US$000 US$000 Balance at 31 December 2017 as previously reported 168,832 783,921 Impact of change in accounting policy at 1 January 2017 88,218 88,218 Impact of change in accounting policy during 2017 16,729 16,729 Restated balance at 31 December 2017 63,885 678,974 The effects on the statement of comprehensive income and earnings per share were as follows: Restated 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note US$000 US$000 Increase in exploration and evaluation costs 21,006 20,286 Decrease in impairment of exploration and evaluation assets 3,557 Decrease in profit for the period before tax 21,006 16,729 Earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent as previously reported: Basic cents per share 8.321 9.832 Diluted cents per share 8.252 9.755 Restated earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent: Basic cents per share 6.3 6.497 8.377 Diluted cents per share 6.3 6.444 8.312 Therefore, the restated note to the annual financial statements is as follows: Exploration and evaluation asset Restated 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the year 63,885 65,700 Expenditure for the period 13,635 10,610 Pre-production gold sales net of costs related to Cleopatra 8,688 4,841 Transfer to property, plant and equipment 9,678 7,584 Balance at the end of the year 59,154 63,885 The exploration and evaluation asset relates to the drilling, geological exploration and sampling of potential ore reserves and can be attributed to Egypt US$24.0 million and Burkina Faso US$35.2 million relating to the acquisition of Ampella Mining Limited.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources it was concluded that the production downgrade and corresponding devaluation of the share price of the Company was an impairment indicator for the exploration and evaluation assets.
An impairment review has subsequently been performed, refer to note 1.1.
2 of the financial statements for further information, however no impairment resulted from the review.
As no impairment indicators were identified in 2017 an impairment review was not performed in that period.
162 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The new accounting policy is as follows: ACCOUNTING POLICY: EXPLORATION, EVALUATION AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE Exploration and evaluation expenditures in relation to each separate area of interest are differentiated between greenfield and brownfield exploration activities in the year in which they are incurred.
Greenfield exploration costs will be expensed as incurred and will not be capitalised to the balance sheet until a decision is made to pursue a commercially viable project.
Brownfield exploration and evaluation expenditures in relation to each separate area of interest are recognised as an exploration and evaluation asset in the year in which they are incurred where the following conditions are satisfied: the rights to tenure of the area of interest are current: and at least one of the following conditions is also met: the exploration and evaluation expenditures are expected to be recouped through successful development and exploration of the area of interest, or alternatively, by its sale: or exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have not at the reporting date reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and active and significant operations in, or in relation to, the area of interest are continuing.
Exploration and evaluation assets are initially measured at cost and include acquisition of rights to explore, studies, exploration drilling, trenching and sampling and associated activities.
General and administrative costs are only included in the measurement of exploration and evaluation costs where they are related directly to operational activities in a particular area of interest.
Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances as defined in IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources suggest that the carrying amount of exploration and evaluation assets may exceed its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the exploration and evaluation assets or the cash generating unit s to which it has been allocated, being no larger than the relevant area of interest is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in previous years.
Where a decision is made to proceed with development in respect of a particular area of interest based on the commercial and technical feasibility, the relevant exploration and evaluation asset is tested for impairment, reclassified to mine development properties, and then amortised over the life of the reserves associated with the area of interest once mining operations have commenced.
Mine development expenditure is recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
When commercial production in an area of interest has commenced, the associated costs are amortised over the estimated economic life of the mine on a units of production basis.
Changes in factors such as estimates of proved and probable reserves that affect unit of production calculations are dealt with on a prospective basis.
Income derived by the entity prior to the date of commercial production is offset against the expenditure capitalised and carried in the consolidated statement of financial position.
All revenues recognised after commencement of commercial production are recognised in accordance with the revenue policy stated in note 2.2.
The commencement date of commercial production is determined when stable and sustained production capacity has been achieved.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 163 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
2 Change in accounting estimates: Mining stockpiles The treatment and classification of mining stockpiles within inventory has changed during the year of assessment resulting in the disclosure being split between current and non-current assets.
Stockpiles which will not be consumed within the next twelve months based on mining and processing forecasts have been reclassified to non-current assets.
The reason for the change is the manner in which the mining stockpiles will be utilised or drawn upon in the future within the life of mine, with priority being placed on the higher grade ore.
The volume of ore extracted from the open pit in the year far exceeded the volume that could be processed, which has caused a large increase in the volume and value of the mining stockpiles.
The carrying value of the non-current asset portion is assessed at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The cost of the mining stockpiles was assessed through comparing the current costs and discounting the future processing costs at a US$ applicable rate of 3.02% over the expected life of the asset to the future expected selling price.
The net present value was the higher of the two and as such it is valued at cost.
In line with the updated mineral reserves estimate for Sukari at 30 June 2018, the mine cut-off grade for the surface stockpiles has been changed from 0.3 to 0.4 grams per tonne g t. Amounts under 0.4g t have been expensed which resulted in a US$5.7 million charge.
Therefore, the note to the annual financial statements are as follows: Inventories mining stockpiles 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Non-current Mining stockpiles 32,424 32,424 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Current Mining stockpiles and ore in circuit 30,601 31,728 Stores inventory 70,281 78,618 Provision for obsolete stores inventory 3,332 5,136 97,550 105,210 ACCOUNTING POLICY: INVENTORIES Inventories include mining stockpiles, gold in process, dor supplies and stores and materials, and are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of mining stockpiles and gold produced is determined principally by the weighted average cost method using related production costs.
Cost of mining stockpiles include costs incurred up to the point of stockpiling, such as mining and grade control costs, but exclude future costs of production.
Ore extracted is allocated to stockpiles based on estimated grade, with grades below defined cut-off levels treated as waste and expensed.
While held in physically separate stockpiles, the Group blends the ore from each stockpile when feeding the processing plant to achieve the resultant gold content.
In such circumstances, lower and higher grade ore stockpiles each represent a raw material, used in conjunction with each other, to deliver overall gold production, as supported by the relevant feed plan.
The processing of ore in stockpiles occurs in accordance with the life of mine LOM processing plan and is currently being optimised based on the known mineral reserves, current plant capacity and mine design.
Ore tonnes contained in the stockpiles which exceed the annual tonnes to be milled as per the mine plan in the following year, are classified as non-current in the statement of financial position.
Currently at Sukari, low grade low 0.4 to 0.5g t open pit stockpile material above the cut-off grade of 0.4g t has been reclassified to non-current assets as these ore tonnes are not planned to be processed within the next twelve months.
The net realisable value of mining stockpiles is determined with reference to estimated contained gold and market gold prices applicable.
Mining stockpiles which are blended together with future ore mined when fed to the plant are assessed as an input to the gold production process to ensure the combined stockpiles are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Mining stockpiles which are not blended in production are assessed separately to ensure they are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, although no such stockpiles are currently held.
164 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICY: INVENTORIES CONTINUED Costs of gold inventories include all costs incurred up until production of an ounce of gold such as milling costs, mining costs and directly attributable mine general and administration costs but exclude transport costs, refining costs and royalties.
Net realisable value is determined with reference to estimated contained gold and market gold prices.
Stores and materials consist of consumable stores and are valued at weighted average cost after appropriate impairment of redundant and slow moving items.
Consumable stock for which the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are brought onto the statement of financial position as current assets.
For a detailed discussion about the Groups performance and financial position, please refer to the financial review.
3 Adoption of new and revised accounting policies Standards not affecting the reported results or the financial position In the current year, the following new and revised standards and interpretations that have been adopted have not had a material impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers This standard replaced IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts and provides a five step framework for application to customer contracts: identification of customer contract: identification of the contract performance obligations: determination of the contract price: allocation of the contract price to the contract performance obligations: and revenue recognition as performance obligations are satisfied.
A new requirement where revenue is variable stipulates that revenue may only be recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that significant reversal of revenue will not occur.
The Group assessed the impact of IFRS 15 and determined that its application will result in no changes in its revenue recognition.
The Group only has a single short term performance obligation and the majority of gold sales are not subject to pricing adjustments, therefore the new standard has no significant impact.
The new standard was effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments This standard addresses the financial reporting of financial assets and financial liabilities and replaced IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into three measurement categories: those measured at fair value through profit and loss, those measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and those measured at amortised cost.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The impairment model, hedging rules and derecognition rules have also been amended under IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 has had no material impact on current results as the Group does not enter into formal hedge accounting arrangements, has no long term trade or other receivables and does not hold financial liabilities at fair value.
The Group has considered the impact of IFRS 9 on the accounting for assets currently held as available-for-sale and determined it to not be material.
New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted Standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the financial statements are listed below.
This listing of standards and interpretations issued are those that the Group reasonably expects to have an impact on disclosures, financial position or performance when applied at a future date.
These standards have not been early adopted by the Group and the Groups assessment of the impact of these new standards and interpretations is set out below: IFRS 16 Leases Nature of change IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016.
It will result in almost all leases being recognised on the balance sheet by lessees, as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed.
Under the new standard, an asset the right to use the leased item and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognised.
The only exceptions are short term and low-value leases.
Impact The Group has set up a project team which has reviewed all of the Groups leasing arrangements over the last year in light of the new lease accounting rules in IFRS 16.
The standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Groups operating leases.
The team performed an impact assessment of IFRS 16 on the Groups contracts and financial statements.
All active contracts were assessed under the requirements of IFRS 16 to determine whether they had arrangements that contained a lease.
Under IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease contracts were initially assessed on the date of their inception to determine whether or not they should be accounted for under those standards.
If, on initial assessment, they didnt meet the requirements of IAS 17 or IFRIC 4, but on reassessment do meet the requirements of IFRS 16, they have been excluded from this assessment by application of paragraph C3 b of IFRS 16.
Management have elected to apply the paragraph C3 b and therefore paragraph C4 of IFRS 16 as a practical expedient to not apply this standard to all the Groups existing contracts.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 165 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
3 Adoption of new and revised accounting policies continued IFRS 16 Leases continued Impact continued As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of US$3.2 million, see note 5.2.
Of these commitments, approximately US$ 1.1 million relates to low value leases which will be recognised on a straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss.
For the remaining lease commitments, the Group expects to recognise right-of-use assets of approximately US$1.6 million on 1 January 2019, lease liabilities of US$1.6 million after adjustments for prepayments and accrued lease payments recognised as at 31 December 2018.
Overall net assets will not change, and net current assets will be US$0.3 million lower due to the presentation of a portion of the liability as a current liability.
The Group expects that net profit after tax will decrease by approximately US$0.1 million for 2019 as a result of adopting the new rules.
EBITDA used to measure segment results is expected to increase by approximately US$0.5 million, as the operating lease payments were included in EBITDA, but the amortisation of the right-of-use assets and interest on the lease liability are excluded from this measure.
Operating cash flows will increase and financing cash flows decrease by approximately US$0.3 million as repayment of the principal portion of the lease liabilities will be classified as cash flows from financing activities.
The Group has immaterial activities as a lessor and hence the Group does not expect any significant impact on the financial statements.
Previous disclosures of operating lease commitments were limited to office premises in Jersey.
Mandatory application date and date of adoption by Group The Group will apply the standard from its mandatory adoption date of 1 January 2019.
The Group intends to apply the simplified transition approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption.
Right-of-use assets for property leases will be measured on transition as if the new rules had always been applied.
All other right-of-use assets will be measured at the amount of the lease liability on adoption adjusted for any prepaid or accrued lease expenses.
There are no other standards that are not yet effective and that would be expected to have a material impact on the entity in the current or future reporting periods and on foreseeable future transactions.
1.3 Other critical judgments and estimates in applying the entitys accounting policies The following are the other critical judgments and estimates that management has made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Management has discussed its critical accounting judgments and estimates and associated disclosures with the Companys Audit and Risk Committee.
The changes to critical accounting judgments with additional focus in 2018 are disclosed in note 1.1 above.
The other critical accounting judgments are as follows: 1.3.
1 Litigation The Group exercises judgment in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 5.1 to the financial statements.
Judgment is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
The Group is currently a party to two significant legal actions, both of which could affect its ability to operate the mine at Sukari in the manner in which it is currently operated and adversely affect its profitability.
The details of this litigation, which relate to the loss of the Egyptian national subsidy for Diesel Fuel Oil and the Concession Agreement under which Sukari operates, are given in note 5.1 to the financial statements.
Although it is possible to quantify the effects of the loss of the national fuel subsidy, it is not currently possible to quantify with sufficient precision the impact of any restrictions placed on the terms of the Groups operations under the Concession Agreement.
Every action is being taken to contest these decisions, including the making of formal legal appeals and, although their resolution may still take some time, management remains confident that a satisfactory outcome will ultimately be achieved.
In the meantime, however, the Group is continuing to pay international prices for Diesel Fuel Oil.
With respect to the Administrative Court ruling, on 20 March 2013 the Supreme Administrative Court upheld the Companys application to suspend this decision until the merits of the Companys appeal are considered and ruled on, thus providing assurance that normal operations will be able to continue during this process.
In the unlikely event that the Group is unsuccessful in either or both of its legal actions, and that the operating activities are restricted to a reduced area, it is managements belief that the Group will be able to continue as going concern.
166 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The changes to critical accounting estimates and assumptions are disclosed in note 1.2 above.
The other critical estimates and assumptions are as follows: 1.3.
2 Ore reserves Estimates of recoverable quantities of reserves include assumptions on commodity prices, exchange rates, discount rates and production costs for future cash flows.
It also involves assessment and judgment of complex geological models.
The economic, geological and technical factors used to estimate ore reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in ore reserves affect the carrying values of mine properties, property, plant and equipment, provision for rehabilitation assets and deferred taxes.
Ore reserves are integral to the amount of depreciation and amortisation charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and the calculation in the valuation of inventory.
Production forecasts from the underground mine at Sukari are partly based on estimates regarding future resource and reserve growth.
It should be specifically noted that the potential quantity and grade from the Sukari underground mine is conceptual in nature and that it is uncertain if exploration will result in further targets being delineated as a mineral resource.
3 Mineral reserve and resource statement The Group published a mineral reserve and resource statement for the Sukari Gold Mine on 25 February 2019 with an effective date of 30 June 2018.
The Group reports its mineral resources and ore reserves in accordance with NI 43-101.
The most current statement has used an assumed gold price of US$1,300 per ounce as a basis of preparation.
The information on the mineral resources and ore reserves is prepared by qualified persons as defined by the instrument.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mineral resources and ore reserves.
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
4 Recovery of capitalised exploration evaluation and development expenditure The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure results in brownfield exploration and evaluation expenditure being capitalised to the balance sheet for those projects where such expenditure is considered likely to be recoverable through future extraction activity or sale or where the exploration activities have not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
This policy requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular whether the Group will proceed with development based on existence of reserves or whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
Such estimates and assumptions may change from period to period as new information becomes available.
If, subsequent to the brownfield exploration and evaluation expenditure being capitalised, a judgment is made that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely or the project is to be abandoned, the relevant capitalised amount will be written off to the income statement.
5 Going concern Under guidelines set out by the FRC, the Directors of UK listed companies are required to consider whether the going concern basis is the appropriate basis of preparation of financial statements.
Based on a detailed cash flow forecast prepared by management, in which it included any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which cash flow forecast is based, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for twelve months from 1 March 2019.
Key assumptions underpinning this forecast include: litigation as discussed in note 5.1 to the financial statements: forecast gold price: production volumes: and costs and recovery rates.
These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations, in preparing this financial statements.
6 Depreciation of capitalised underground mine development costs Depreciation of capitalised underground mine development costs at the Sukari Gold Mine is based on reserve estimates.
Management and Directors believe that these estimates are realistic based on current information.
Please refer to ore reserves, note 3.1.
1 i. Centamin plc Annual report 2018 167 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
How numbers are calculated 2.1 Segment reporting The Group is engaged in the business of exploration for and mining of precious metals, which represents three operating segments, two in the business of exploration and one in mining of precious metals.
The Board is the Groups chief operating decision-maker within the meaning of IFRS 8 Operating segments.
Management has determined the operating segments based on the information reviewed by the Board for the purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance.
The Board considers the business from a geographic perspective and a mining of precious metals versus exploration for precious metals perspective.
Geographically, management considers separately the performance in Egypt, Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire and Corporate which includes Jersey, United Kingdom and Australia.
From a mining of precious metals versus exploration for precious metals perspective, management separately considers the Egyptian mining of precious metals from the West African exploration for precious metals in these geographies.
The Egyptian mining operations derive its revenue from sale of gold while the West African entities are currently only engaged in precious metal exploration and do not produce any revenue.
The Board assesses the performance of the operating segments based on profits and expenditure incurred as well as exploration expenditure in each region.
Egypt is the only operating segment mining precious metals and therefore has revenue and cost of sales whilst the remaining operating segments do not.
All operating segments are reviewed by the Board as presented and are key to the monitoring of ongoing performance and assessing plans of the Company.
Non-current assets other than financial instruments by country 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Egypt 891,131 878,508 Burkina Faso 35,959 36,094 Cte dIvoire 543 451 Corporate 20 27 927,653 915,080 1 Restated due to change in accounting policy, refer to note 1.2.
Statement of financial position by operating segment Total Egypt Burkina Faso Cte dIvoire Corporate 31 December 2018 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Statement of financial position Total assets 1,347,969 1,032,284 36,876 909 277,900 Total liabilities 61,152 57,843 477 85 2,747 Net assets total equity 1,286,817 974,441 36,399 824 275,153 1 Restated Total Egypt Burkina Faso Cte dIvoire Corporate 31 December 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Statement of financial position Total assets 1,424,355 1,028,927 37,621 888 356,919 Total liabilities 72,326 68,655 787 307 2,577 Net assets total equity 1,352,029 960,272 36,834 581 354,342 1 Restated due to change in accounting policy, refer to note 1.2.
168 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of comprehensive income by operating segment Total Egypt Burkina Faso Cte dIvoire Corporate 31 December 2018 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Statement of comprehensive income Revenue 603,248 603,248 Cost of sales 406,538 406,538 Gross profit 196,710 196,710 Other income 49 49 Finance income 4,815 44 4,771 Other operating costs 27,866 13,433 481 644 13,308 Exploration and evaluation costs 21,006 5,223 15,783 Profit loss for the year before tax 152,702 183,370 5,704 16,427 8,537 Tax 53 53 Profit loss for the year after tax 152,649 183,317 5,704 16,427 8,537 Profit loss for the year after tax attributable to: the owners of the parent 74,845 105,513 5,704 16,427 8,537 non-controlling interest in SGM 77,804 77,804 1 Restated Total Egypt Burkina Faso Cte dIvoire Corporate 31 December 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Statement of comprehensive income Revenue 675,510 675,510 Cost of sales 414,341 414,341 Gross profit 261,169 261,169 Other income 680 23 657 Finance income 2,729 41 2,688 Other operating costs 36,927 25,483 197 96 11,737 Exploration and evaluation costs 20,286 6,433 13,853 Profit loss for the year before tax 207,365 235,750 6,236 13,757 8,392 Tax 2,063 513 1,550 Profit loss for the year after tax 205,302 235,237 6,236 13,757 9,942 Profit loss for the year after tax attributable to: the owners of the parent 96,356 126,291 6,236 13,757 9,942 non-controlling interest in SGM 108,946 108,946 1 Restated due to change in accounting policy, refer to note 1.2.
Exploration expenditure by operating segment The following table provides a breakdown of the total exploration expenditure of the Group by operating segment: 1 Restated 1 January to 1 January to 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Burkina Faso 5,223 6,433 Cte dIvoire 15,783 13,853 Egypt Sukari tenement including Cleopatra excluding pre-production gold sales adjustment 13,635 10,610 Total exploration expenditure 34,641 30,896 1 Restated due to change in accounting policy, refer to note 1.2.
ACCOUNTING POLICY: SEGMENT REPORTING Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Board of Directors.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 169 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
How numbers are calculated continued 2.2 Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue for the year, from continuing operations, is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Gold sales including pre-production gold sales related to Cleopatra 613,727 680,513 Less: Pre-production gold sales related to Cleopatra offset against exploration and evaluation asset 11,523 6,170 Gold sales excluding pre-production gold sales related to Cleopatra 602,204 674,343 Silver sales 1,044 1,167 603,248 675,510 All gold and silver sales during the year were made to a single customer in North America, Asahi Refining Canada Ltd. ACCOUNTING POLICY: REVENUE UNDER IFRS 15 Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods in the normal course of business.
Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of mineral production is recognised when the Group has passed control of the mineral production to the buyer, it is probable that economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group, the sales price can be measured reliably, and the Group has no significant continuing involvement and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
This is when insurance risk has passed to the buyer and the goods have been collected at the agreed location.
The performance obligation is satisfied when the gold bars are packaged and delivered to the approved carrier with the appropriate required documentation at the gold room and the approved carrier accepts control of the shipment by signature.
98% of the payable gold and silver content of the refined gold bars will be priced and paid within one working day after receipt of the shipment at the refinery with the balance being priced and paid five working days after receipt.
There are no significant judgments applied to the determination of revenue.
Where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow for an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the mineral production by the buyer for instance an assay for gold content, recognition of the revenue from the sale of mineral production is based on the most recently determined estimate of product specifications.
Pre-production revenues Income derived by the entity prior to the date of commercial production is offset against the expenditure capitalised and carried in the consolidated statement of financial position.
All revenues recognised after commencement of commercial production are recognised in accordance with the revenue policy stated above.
Royalty The Arab Republic of Egypt ARE is entitled to a royalty of 3% of net sales revenue revenue net of freight and refining costs as defined from the sale of gold and associated minerals from the Sukari Gold Mine.
This royalty is calculated and recognised on receipt of the final certificate of analysis document received from the refinery.
Due to its nature, this royalty is not recognised in cost of sales but rather in other operating costs.
Transition from IAS 18 Revenue The only changes to the new accounting policy under IFRS 15 compared with IAS 18 are: the performance obligation under IFRS 15 above: and control of the items sold under IFRS 15 compared to risk and rewards of ownership being transferred under IAS 18.
Other than that it is identical to the policy under IAS 18 applied to the comparative data.
170 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.3 Profit before tax Profit for the year before tax has been arrived at after crediting charging the following gains losses and income expenses : 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Finance income Interest received 4,815 2,729 Expenses Cost of sales Mine production costs including costs related to gold produced from Cleopatra 330,924 308,892 Mine production costs related to gold produced from Cleopatra offset against exploration and evaluation asset 2,834 1,329 Mine production costs 328,090 307,563 Movement in inventory 31,296 2,490 Depreciation and amortisation 109,744 104,288 406,538 414,341 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Other operating costs Corporate compliance 1,758 1,281 Fees payable to the external auditor 710 656 Corporate consultants 652 338 Communications and IT 328 188 Salaries and wages 7,316 6,202 Travel, accommodation and entertainment 819 731 Office rents and lease payment 148 166 Other administration expenses 482 193 Insurances 305 387 Other taxes 169 3 Employee equity settled share-based payments 3,222 2,535 Corporate costs sub-total 15,909 12,680 Other provisions 58 1,170 Net movement on provision for stock obsolescence 1,353 2,636 Office related depreciation 301 274 Royalty attributable to the ARE government 18,396 20,404 Foreign exchange gain, net 6,372 1,470 Finance charges 142 341 Loss on disposal of asset 31 263 Provision for restoration and rehabilitation unwinding of discount 870 629 27,866 36,927 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 171 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
How numbers are calculated continued 2.3 Profit before tax continued ACCOUNTING POLICY: OTHER INCOME AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES Finance income Finance income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income can be measured reliably.
Finance income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in its functional currency being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are expressed in US dollars, which is the functional currency of most companies in the Group and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements except for the UK subsidiaries which are denominated in Great British pounds and the Australian subsidiaries which are denominated in Australian dollars.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each reporting date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
2.4 Non-controlling interest in SGM EMRA is a 50% shareholder in SGM and is entitled to a share of 50% of SGMs net production surplus which can be defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to the Arab Republic of Egypt ARE and recoverable costs.
However, in accordance with the terms of the CA, in the first and second years in which there is a profit share, PGM will be entitled to an additional 10% of net production surplus and an additional 5% in the third and fourth years.
Earnings attributable to the non-controlling interest in SGM i. e. EMRA are pursuant to the provisions of the CA are recognised as profit attributable to the non-controlling interest in SGM in the attribution of profit section of the statement of comprehensive income of the Group.
The profit share payments during the year will be reconciled against SGMs audited financial statements.
The SGM financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2018 have not been signed off at the date of this report and are in the process of being audited.
Certain terms of the CA and amounts in the cost recovery model may also vary depending on interpretation and management and the Board making various judgments and estimates that can affect the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
a Statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position impact 2 Restated 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Statement of comprehensive income 1 Profit for the year after tax attributable to the non-controlling interest in SGM 77,804 108,946 Statement of financial position 1 Total equity attributable to non-controlling interest in SGM opening 1,683 1,000 1 Profit for the year after tax attributable to the non-controlling interest in SGM 77,804 108,946 Dividend paid non-controlling interest in SGM 76,391 111,629 1 Total equity attributable to non-controlling interest in SGM closing 270 1,683 1 Profit share commenced during the third quarter of 2016.
The first two years was a 60:40 split of net production surplus to PGM and EMRA respectively.
From 1 July 2018 this changed to a 55:45 split for the next two-year period until 30 June 2020, after which all net production surpluses will be split 50:50.
1 for the change in treatment of amounts attributable to the non-controlling interest in SGM previously EMRA profit share.
Any variation between payments made during the year which are based on the Companys estimates and the SGM audited financial statements, may result in a balance due and payable to EMRA or advances to be offset against future distributions.
This will be reflected as an amount attributable to the non-controlling interest in SGM on the statement of financial position and statement of changes in equity.
172 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b Cash flow statement impact 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Statement of cash flows 1 Dividend paid non-controlling interest in SGM 76,391 111,629 1 Profit share commenced during the third quarter of 2016.
EMRA and PGM benefit from advance distributions of profit share which are made on a weekly or fortnightly basis and proportionately in accordance with the terms of the CA.
Future distributions will take into account ongoing cash flows, historical costs that are still to be recovered and any future capital expenditure.
All profit share payments will be reconciled against SGMs audited June financial statements for current and future periods.
2.5 Tax The Group operates in several countries and, accordingly, it is subject to the various tax regimes in the countries in which it operates.
From time to time the Group is subject to a review of its related tax filings and in connection with such reviews, disputes can arise with the taxing authorities over the interpretation or application of certain rules to the Groups business conducted within the country involved.
If the Group is unable to resolve any of these matters favourably, there may be an adverse impact on the Groups financial performance, cash flows or results of operations.
In the event that managements estimate of the future resolution of these matters changes, the Group will recognise the effects of the changes in its consolidated financial statements in the period that such changes occur.
In Egypt, Pharaoh Gold Mines NL has entered into a Concession Agreement that provides that the income generated by Sukari Gold Mining Companys activities is granted a long term tax exemption from all taxes imposed in Egypt, other than the fixed royalty attributable to the Egyptian government, rental income on property and interest income on cash and cash equivalents.
Relevance of tax consolidation to the consolidated entity In Australia, Centamin Egypt Limited and Pharaoh Gold Mines NL, both wholly owned Australian resident entities within the Group, have elected to form a tax-consolidated Group from 1 July 2003 and therefore are treated as a single entity for Australian income tax purposes.
The head entity within the tax-consolidated Group is Centamin Egypt Limited.
Pharaoh Gold Mines NL, which has a registered Egyptian branch, benefits from the branch profits exemption whereby foreign branch income will generally not be subject to Australian income tax.
Ampella Mining Limited is a single entity for Australian income tax purposes.
Nature of tax funding arrangements and tax-sharing agreements Entities within the tax-consolidated Group have entered into a tax funding arrangement and a tax-sharing agreement with the head entity.
Under the terms of the tax-funding agreement, Centamin Egypt Limited and each of the entities in the tax-consolidated Group have agreed to pay a tax-equivalent payment to or from the head entity, based on the current tax liability or current tax asset of the entity.
Such amounts are reflected in amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the tax-consolidated Group.
The tax-sharing agreement entered into between members of the tax-consolidated Group provides for the determination of the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations.
No amounts have been recognised in the financial statements in respect of this agreement as payment of any amounts under the tax-sharing agreement is considered remote.
Tax recognised in profit is summarised as follows: Tax expense 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Current tax Current tax expense in respect of the current year 53 2,063 Deferred tax Total tax expense 53 2,063 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 173 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
How numbers are calculated continued 2.5 Tax continued Nature of tax funding arrangements and tax-sharing agreements continued The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year before tax 152,702 224,094 1 Tax expense calculated at 0% 2017: 0% of profit for the year before tax Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible taxable in calculating taxable income: Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 53 2,063 Tax 53 2,063 1 The tax rate used in the above reconciliation is the corporate tax rate of 0% payable by Jersey corporate entities under the Jersey tax law 2017: 0%.
There has been no change in the underlying corporate tax rates when compared with the previous financial period.
Tax recognised in the balance sheet is summarised as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Current tax liabilities 3 469 Non-current tax liabilities 155 23 ACCOUNTING POLICY: TAXATION Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
174 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.6 Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Non-current Other receivables deposits 88 96 88 96 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Current Gold and silver sales debtors 28,234 31,007 Other receivables 5,209 3,460 33,443 34,467 Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost.
All gold and silver sales during the year were made to a single customer in North America, Asahi Refining Canada Ltd, and are neither past due nor impaired.
The average age of the receivables is nine days 2017: nine days.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
There are no trade receivables past due and impaired at the reporting date, and thus no allowance for doubtful debts has been recognised.
Of the trade receivables balance, the gold and silver sales debtor is all a receivable from Asahi Refining Canada Ltd.
The amount due has been received in full subsequent to year end.
Other receivables represent GST and VAT owing from the various jurisdictions that the Group operates in and inventory returns to vendors where refunds are expected to occur.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value, therefore no expected credit loss is recognised within this note, see note 3.1.
1 for the risk assessment related to trade receivables.
2.7 Prepayments 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Current Prepayments 5,149 7,546 Fuel prepayments 1,547 2,247 6,696 9,793 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 175 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
How numbers are calculated continued 2.7 Prepayments continued Diesel Fuel Oil DFO dispute As more fully described in note 5.1, the Group is currently involved in court action concerning the price at which it is supplied with DFO.
Since January 2012, the Group has had to pay for DFO at the international price rather than the subsidised price which it believes it is entitled to.
It is seeking recovery of the funds advanced since 2012 through court action.
However, management recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the Egyptian government and for this reason has fully provided against the prepayment of US$327.0 million to 31 December 2018, of which US$49.7 million was provided for during 2018.
In order to allow a better understanding of the financial statements presented within the consolidated financial statements, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance, the effect of the Diesel Fuel Oil dispute is shown below.
Movement in fuel prepayments 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the year 2,247 877 Fuel prepayment recognised 49,711 42,869 Less: provision charged to: Mine production costs 45,017 39,030 Property, plant and equipment 5,175 2,761 Inventories 219 292 Balance at the end of the year 1,547 2,247 Cumulative fuel prepayment and provision recognised 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Fuel prepayment recognised 326,967 277,255 Less: provision charged to: Mine production costs 302,047 257,030 Property, plant and equipment 22,055 16,880 Inventories 1,317 1,098 This has resulted in a net charge of US$49.5 million in the profit and loss for the year.
How numbers are calculated continued 2.8 Property, plant and equipment continued The production downgrade and corresponding devaluation of the share price of the Company has been considered and it was concluded that this was an impairment indicator.
An impairment review has been performed in 2018, refer to note 1.1.
2, however no impairment resulted from the review.
Assets that have been cost recovered under the terms of the Concession Agreement in Egypt are included on the statement of financial position under property, plant and equipment due to the Company having right of use of these assets.
These rights will expire together with the Concession Agreement.
ACCOUNTING POLICY: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT PPE PPE is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
PPE will include capitalised development expenditure.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item as well as the estimated cost of abandonment.
In the event that settlement of all or part of the purchase consideration is deferred, cost is determined by discounting the amounts payable in the future to their present value as at the date of acquisition.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of PPE includes the estimated restoration costs associated with the asset.
Depreciation is provided on PPE, except for capital work in progress.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis so as to write off the net cost or other revalued amount of each asset over its expected useful life to its estimated residual value.
Depreciation on capital work in progress commences on commissioning of the asset and transfer to the relevant PPE category.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each annual financial period, with the effect of any changes recognised on a prospective basis.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The following estimated useful lives are used in the calculation of depreciation: Plant and equipment 2 20 years Office equipment 3 7 years Mining equipment 2 13 years Buildings 4 20 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in other income or operating expenses.
Mine development properties Where mining of a mineral resource has commenced, the accumulated costs are transferred from exploration and evaluation assets to mine development properties, net of any pre-production revenues.
Amortisation is first charged to new mine development ventures from the date of first commercial production.
Amortisation of mine properties is on a unit of production basis resulting in an amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the proved and probable ore reserves.
The unit of production can be on a tonnes or an ounce depleted basis.
Capitalised underground development costs incurred to enable access to specific ore blocks or areas of the underground mine, and which only provide an economic benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area, are depreciated on a unit of production basis, whereby the denominator is estimated ounces of gold in proven and probable reserves within that ore block or area where it is considered probable that those resources will be extracted economically.
178 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICY: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT PPE CONTINUED Stripping activity assets The Group defers stripping costs incurred removal of mine waste materials which provide improved access to further quantities of material that will be mined in future periods.
This waste removal activity is known as stripping.
There can be two benefits accruing to the entity from the stripping activity: usable ore that can be used to produce inventory: and improved access to further quantities of material that will be mined in future periods.
The costs of stripping activity to be accounted for in accordance with the principles of IAS 2 Inventories and IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine to the extent that the benefit from the stripping activity is realised in the form of inventory produced.
The costs of stripping activity which provides a benefit in the form of improved access to ore is recognised as a non-current stripping activity asset where the following criteria are met: it is probable that the future economic benefit improved access to the orebody associated with the stripping activity will flow to the entity: the entity can identify the component of the orebody for which access has been improved: and the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with that component can be measured reliably.
When the costs of the stripping activity asset and the inventory produced are not separately identifiable, production stripping costs are allocated between the inventory produced and the stripping activity asset by using an allocation basis that is based on a relevant production measure.
A stripping activity asset is accounted for as an addition to, or as an enhancement of, an existing asset and classified as tangible or intangible according to the nature of the existing asset of which it forms part.
A stripping activity asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently carried at cost or its revalued amount less depreciation or amortisation and impairment losses.
A stripping activity asset is depreciated or amortised on a systematic basis, over the expected useful life of the identified component of the orebody that becomes more accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
The stripping activity asset is depreciated using a unit of production method based on the total ounces to be produced over the life of the component of the orebody.
Deferred stripping costs are included in stripping assets, within tangible assets.
These form part of the total investment in the relevant cash generating unit, which is reviewed for impairment if events or a change in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is included in operating costs.
As at 31 December 2018, no stripping costs have been recognised or deferred.
Impairment of assets other than exploration and evaluation and financial assets At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are Grouped at the lowest levels for which they potentially generate largely independent cash inflows cash generating units.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value loss costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of a cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the cash generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the cash generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of an impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
2.9 Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 23,510 32,540 Other creditors and accruals 15,736 19,045 39,246 51,585 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 179 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
How numbers are calculated continued 2.9 Trade and other payables continued Trade payables principally comprise the amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 21 days 2017: 29 days.
Trade payables are interest free for periods ranging from 30 to 180 days.
Thereafter interest is charged at commercial rates.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximate their fair value.
ACCOUNTING POLICY: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS A liability is recognised for benefits accruing to employees in respect of wages and salaries, annual leave, long service leave and sick leave when it is probable that settlement will be required and they are capable of being measured reliably.
Liabilities recognised in respect of employee benefits expected to be settled within twelve months, are measured at their nominal values using the remuneration rate expected to apply at the time of settlement.
Liabilities recognised in respect of employee benefits which are not expected to be settled within twelve months are measured at the present value of the estimated future cash flows to be made by the consolidated entity in respect of services provided by employees up to reporting date.
Superannuation The Company contributes to, but does not participate in, compulsory superannuation funds defined contribution schemes on behalf of the employees and Directors in respect of salaries and Directors fees paid.
Contributions are charged against income as they are made.
2.10 Provisions 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Current 1 Employee benefits 1,855 2,510 Fuel 2,000 2 Egypt health insurance 805 3 Other current provisions 5,495 4,801 8,155 9,311 Non-current 4 Restoration and rehabilitation 13,591 10,868 Other non-current provisions 157 93 13,748 10,961 Movement in restoration and rehabilitation provision Balance at beginning of the year 10,868 7,697 Additional provision recognised 1,854 2,542 Interest expense unwinding of discount 869 629 Balance at end of the year 13,591 10,868 1 Employee benefits relate to annual, sick and long service leave entitlements and bonuses.
2 Egypt health insurance relates to Law no.
2 of the 2018 Comprehensive Health Insurance Law that requires 0.25% of revenues and an additional 4% of social insurance contributions to be paid by the Egyptian company effective from 1 July 2018.
3 Provision held for in-country disputes including customs, rebates and withholding taxes.
4 The provision for restoration and rehabilitation represents the present value of the Directors best estimate of the future outflow of economic benefits that will be required to decommission infrastructure, restore affected areas by ripping and grading of compacted surfaces to blend with the surroundings, closure of project components to ensure stability and safety at the Groups sites.
As part of the annual review of the rehabilitation provision, management have amended the discount and inflation rates used in the calculation of the provision from a blended rate to a US$ applicable rate.
The reason for the change is the liability is expected to be settled in US$ and therefore the discount and inflation rates should align with that expectation.
The impact of this change in discount rate and inflation is not material, accordingly it has been recorded in the current year rather than as a prior year restatement.
This restoration and rehabilitation estimate has been made on the basis of benchmark assessments of restoration works required following mine closure and after taking into account the projected area to be disturbed to date.
The annual review undertaken as at 31 December 2018 after amending the discount and inflation rates to a US$ applicable rate has resulted in a US$1.9 million increase in the provision.
180 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICY: RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION A provision for restoration and rehabilitation is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of exploration, development and production activities undertaken, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount of the provision can be measured reliably.
The estimated future obligations include the costs of dismantling and removal of facilities, restoration and monitoring of the affected areas.
The provision for future restoration costs is the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure required to settle the restoration obligation at the reporting date.
Future restoration costs are reviewed annually and any changes in the estimate are reflected in the present value of the restoration provision at each reporting date.
The initial estimate of the restoration and rehabilitation provision relating to exploration, development and mining production activities is capitalised into the cost of the related asset and amortised on the same basis as the related asset, unless the present obligation arises from the production of the inventory in the period, in which case the amount is included in the cost of production for the period.
Changes in the estimate of the provision of restoration and rehabilitation are treated in the same manner, except that the unwinding of the effect of discounting on the provision is recognised as a finance cost within other operating costs rather than being capitalised into the cost of the related asset.
2.11 Issued capital 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Number US$000 Number US$000 Fully paid ordinary shares Balance at beginning of the period 1,152,107,984 668,732 1,152,107,984 667,472 Employee share option scheme proceeds from shares issued 2,615,000 1,406 Transfer from share option reserve 451 1,260 Balance at end of the period 1,154,722,984 670,589 1,152,107,984 668,732 The authorised share capital is an unlimited number of no par value shares.
At 31 December 2018, the trustee of the deferred bonus share plan held 606,383 ordinary shares 2017: 939,716 ordinary shares pursuant to the plan rules.
Fully paid ordinary shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
See note 6.2 for more details of the share options.
ACCOUNTING POLICY: ISSUED CAPITAL Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company or other members of the consolidated Group purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from the total shareholders equity of the Group and or of the Company as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity of the Group and or the Company.
2.12 Share option reserve 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Share option reserve Balance at beginning of the period 4,323 3,048 Share-based payments expense 3,520 3,156 Transfer to accumulated profits 298 621 Transfer to issued capital 1,857 1,260 Balance at the end of the period 5,688 4,323 The share option reserve arises on the grant of share options to employees under the employee share option plan.
Amounts are transferred out of the reserve and into issued capital when the options and warrants are exercised vested.
Amounts are transferred out of the reserve into accumulated profits when the options and warrants are forfeited.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 181 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
How numbers are calculated continued 2.13 Cash flow information a Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and at bank and deposits.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 282,627 359,680 ACCOUNTING POLICY: CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
b Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash flows from operating activities 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year before tax 152,702 207,365 Adjusted for: Depreciation amortisation of property, plant and equipment 110,047 104,562 Inventory written off 451 198 Inventory obsolescence provision 1,804 2,636 Foreign exchange gain 6,373 1,470 Share-based payments expense 3,222 2,535 Finance income 4,815 2,729 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 31 263 Changes in working capital during the period: Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 1,023 9,596 Increase decrease in inventories 22,959 20,736 Decrease increase in prepayments 3,105 2,005 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 12,340 7,592 Increase in provisions 1,501 8,577 Cash flows generated from operating activities 223,791 338,664 1 Restated due to change in accounting policy, refer to note 1.2.
c Non-cash financing and investing activities During the year there have been no non-cash financing and investing activities.
182 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
Group financial risk and capital management 3.1 Group financial risk management 3.1.
1 Financial instruments a Group risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the cash and equity balance.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from the previous financial period.
The Group has no debt and thus not geared at the year end or in the prior year.
The capital structure consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital and reserves as disclosed in notes 2.11 and 2.12.
The Group operates in Australia, Jersey, Egypt, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
None of the Groups entities are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group utilises inflows of funds toward the ongoing exploration and development of the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt, and the exploration projects in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Categories of financial assets and liabilities 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 282,627 359,680 Trade and other receivables 33,443 33,745 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 125 316,070 393,550 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 39,246 51,585 b Financial risk management and objectives The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential risk adverse effects and ensure that net cash flows are sufficient to support the delivery of the Groups financial targets whilst protecting future financial security.
The Group continually monitors and tests its forecast financial position against these objectives.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market, commodity, credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, and interest rate.
These risks are managed under Board approved directives through the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise interest bearing cash and cash equivalents.
Other financial instruments include trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from operations.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, Group policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
c Market risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Australian dollar, Great British pound and Egyptian pound.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
The risk is measured by regularly monitoring, forecasting and performing sensitivity analyses on the Groups financial position.
Financial instruments denominated in Great British pounds, Australian dollars and Egyptian pounds are as follows: Great British pound Australian dollar Egyptian pound 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,631 193 1,379 1,493 1,344 488 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 110 15 1,631 303 1,379 1,508 1,344 488 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 833 79 9,699 4,569 5,453 2,259 833 79 9,699 4,569 5,453 2,259 Net exposure 2,464 224 8,320 3,061 4,109 1,771 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 183 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 3.
Group financial risk and capital management continued 3.1 Group financial risk management continued 3.1.
1 Financial instruments continued c Market risk continued The following table summarises the sensitivity of financial instruments held at the reporting date to movements in the exchange rate of the Great British pound, Egyptian pound and Australian dollar to the US dollar, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivities are based on reasonably possible changes over a financial period, using the observed range of actual historical rates.
Impact on profit Impact on equity 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$ GBP increase by 10% 223 18 10 US$ GBP decrease by 10% 223 18 10 US$ AUD increase by 10% 756 136 2 US$ AUD decrease by 10% 756 136 2 US$ EGP increase by 10% 374 44 US$ EGP decrease by 10% 374 44 The Groups sensitivity to foreign currency has increased at the end of the current period mainly due to an increase in GBP and EGP foreign currency cash holdings offset by a decrease in AUD foreign currency cash holdings as well as an increase in AUD and EGP trade payables offset by a decrease in GBP trade payables.
There is also a corresponding decrease in US dollar cash holdings and trade payables.
The amounts shown above are the main currencies which the Group is exposed to.
Centamin also has small deposits in euro US$404,141 and West African franc US$245,182, and net payables of US$2,355,781 in euro and US$759,014 in West African franc.
A movement of 10% up or down in these currencies would have a negligible effect on the assets liabilities.
The Group has not entered into forward foreign exchange contracts.
Natural hedges are utilised wherever possible to offset foreign currency liabilities.
The Company maintains a policy of not hedging its currency positions and maintains currency holdings in line with underlying requirements and commitments.
d Commodity price risk The Groups future revenue forecasts are exposed to commodity price fluctuations, in particular gold and fuel prices.
The Group has not entered into forward gold hedging contracts.
Gold price The table below summarises the impact of increases decreases of the average realised gold price on the Groups post-tax profit for the year.
The analysis is based on the assumption that the average realised gold price per ounce had increased decreased by 10% with all other variables held constant.
Decrease 31 December Increase by 10% 2018 by 10% US$ oz US$ oz US$ oz Average realised gold price 1,140 1,267 1,394 US$000 US$000 US$000 Profit after tax 103,130 152,649 222,159 Fuel price Any variation in the fuel price has an impact on the mine production costs.
The analysis is based on the assumption that the average fuel price had increased decreased by a few US cents per litre with all other variables held constant.
Decrease 31 December Increase by 10% 2018 by 10% US$ litre US$ litre US$ litre Fuel price 0.55 0.61 0.67 US$000 US$000 US$000 Profit after tax 161,708 152,649 143,588 184 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS e Interest rate risk and liquidity risk The Groups main interest rate risk arises from cash and short term deposits and is not considered to be a material risk due to the short term nature of these financial instruments.
Cash deposits are placed on term period of no more than 30 days at a time.
The financial instruments exposed to interest rate risk and the Groups exposure to interest rate risk as at the balance sheet date were as per the table below.
The Groups liquidity position is managed to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet its financial commitments in a timely and cost effective manner.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board, which has established an appropriate management framework for the management of the Groups funding requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity on the basis of expected cash flow.
The tables in section a to c of this note above reflect a balanced view of cash inflows and outflows and show the implied risk based on those values.
Trade payables and other financial liabilities originate from the financing of assets used in the Groups ongoing operations.
These assets are considered in the Groups overall liquidity risk.
Management continually reviews the Groups liquidity position including cash flow forecasts to determine the forecast liquidity position and maintain appropriate liquidity levels.
Weighted average One to effective Less than twelve interest rate one month months Total % US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2018 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 2.13 25,654 248,296 273,950 Non-interest bearing 41,421 41,421 67,075 248,296 315,371 Financial liabilities Non-interest bearing 39,220 39,220 39,220 39,220 31 December 2017 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.52 179,360 175,860 355,220 Non-interest bearing 38,330 38,330 217,690 175,860 393,550 Financial liabilities Non-interest bearing 56,585 56,585 56,585 56,585 f Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral or other security where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Group measures credit risk on a fair value basis.
The Groups credit risk is concentrated on one entity, the refiner Asahi, but the Group has a good credit check on its customer and none of the trade receivables from the customer has been past due.
Also, the cash balances held in all currencies are held with financial institutions with a high credit rating.
The gross carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of collateral or other security obtained.
g Fair value The carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the financial statements represents their respective fair values, principally as a consequence of the short term maturity thereof.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 185 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 3.
1 Financial instruments continued h Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, Grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 125 125 There were no financial assets or liabilities subsequently measured at fair value on Level 3 fair value measurement bases.
i Ore reserves The following disclosure provides information to help users of the financial statements understand the judgments made about the future and other sources of estimation uncertainty.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty described in note 1.1.
3 above and the range of possible outcomes are described more fully below.
Depreciation of capitalised underground mine development costs Depreciation of capitalised underground mine development costs at the Sukari Gold Mine is based on reserve estimates.
Management and Directors believe that these estimates are both realistic and conservative, based on current information.
The analysis is based on the assumption that the reserve estimate has increased decreased by 10% with all other variables held constant.
Decrease 31 December Increase by 10% 2018 by 10% US$000 US$000 US$000 Amortisation of rehabilitation asset within mine development properties 828 747 678 Amortisation of mine development properties remainder 42,176 39,045 36,496 Mine development properties net book value 282,950 286,162 288,780 Property, plant and equipment net book value 832,775 835,987 838,605 ACCOUNTING POLICY: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement as defined below.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
186 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICY: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Financial assets Financial assets are recognised when, and only when, the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument, and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through the profit or loss which are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost in the Companys financial statements.
Other financial assets are loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
An entity shall derecognise a financial asset when, and only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or it transfers the financial asset by transferring its rights to the related cash flows.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method less impairment.
Interest is recognised by applying the effective interest rate except for short term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
With the exception of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI equity instruments, any subsequent increase in fair value after an impairment loss is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 187 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 3.
Group financial risk and capital management continued 3.2 Capital management 3.2.
1 Risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to: safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders: and maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to owners of the parent, return capital to owners of the parent or issue new shares.
2 Dividends to owners of the parent 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Ordinary shares Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 10 US cents per share 2016: 13.5 US cents per share 115,629 155,437 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 2.5 US cents per share 2017: 2.5 US cents per share 28,938 28,952 Total dividends provided for or paid 144,567 184,389 Dividends to owners of the parent: Paid in cash 144,567 184,389 188 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Group structure 4.1 Subsidiaries The parent entity of the Group is Centamin plc, incorporated in Jersey, and the details of its subsidiaries are as follows: Ownership interest 31 December 31 December Country of 2018 2017 incorporation % % 2 Centamin Egypt Limited Australia 100 100 2 Pharaoh Gold Mines NL holder of an Egyptian branch Australia 100 100 4 Sukari Gold Mining Co Egypt 50 50 3 Centamin West Africa Holdings Limited UK 100 100 3 Sheba Exploration Limited holder of an Ethiopia branch UK 100 100 1 3 Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited UK 100 100 8 Centamin Group Services Limited Jersey 100 100 8 Centamin Holdings Limited Jersey 100 100 7 Centamin Limited Bermuda 100 100 2 Ampella Mining Limited Australia 100 100 2 Ampella Share Plan Limited in liquidation due to Group rationalisation Australia 100 100 2 Ampella Mining Gold Pty Limited in liquidation due to Group rationalisation Australia 100 100 2 West African Gold Reserve Pty Limited in liquidation due to Group rationalisation Australia 100 100 5 Ampella Mining Gold SARL Burkina Faso 100 100 5 Ampella Mining SARL Burkina Faso 100 100 6 Ampella Mining Cte dIvoire Cte dIvoire 100 100 6 Centamin Cte dIvoire Cte dIvoire 100 100 6 Ampella Mining Exploration CDI Cte dIvoire 100 100 6 Centamin Exploration CI Cte dIvoire 100 100 5 Ampella Resources Burkina Faso Burkina Faso 100 100 5 Konkera SA Burkina Faso 90 90 1 Previously Sheba Exploration UK plc.
2 Address of all Australian entities: Suite 8, 7 The Esplanade, Mount Pleasant, WA 6153.
3 Address of all UK entities: Hill House, 1 Little New Street, London, EC4A 3TR.
4 Address of all Egypt entities: 361 El-Horreya Road, Sedi Gaber, Alexandria, Egypt.
5 Address of all Burkina Faso entities: Ampella Resources Burkina Faso: 11 BP 1974 Ouaga 11.
Ampella Mining SARL: 01 BP 1621 Ouaga 01.
Ampella Mining Gold SARL: 11 BP 1974 CMS 11 Ouaga 11.
6 Address of all Cte dIvoire entities: 20 BP 945 Abidjan 20.
7 Address of Bermuda entity: Appleby Corporate Services Bermuda Ltd, Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM EX, Bermuda.
8 Address of all Jersey entities: 2 Mulcaster Street, St Helier, Jersey JE2 3NJ.
Through its wholly owned subsidiary, PGM, the Company entered into the Concession Agreement with EMRA and the Arab Republic of Egypt ARE granting PGM and EMRA the right to explore, develop, mine and sell gold and associated minerals in specific concession areas located in the Eastern Desert of Egypt.
The Concession Agreement came into effect under Egyptian law on 13 June 1995.
2 In 2005 PGM, together with EMRA, were granted an exploitation lease over 160km surrounding the Sukari Gold Mine site.
The exploitation lease was signed by PGM, EMRA and the Egyptian Minister of Petroleum and gives tenure for a period of 30 years, commencing 24 May 2005 and extendable by PGM for an additional 30 years upon PGM providing reasonable commercial justification.
In 2006 SGM was incorporated under the laws of Egypt.
SGM was formed to conduct exploration, development, exploitation and marketing operations in accordance with the Concession Agreement.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the project rests with the general manager, who is appointed by PGM.
The fiscal terms of the Concession Agreement require that PGM solely funds SGM.
PGM is however entitled to recover from sales revenue recoverable costs, as defined in the Concession Agreement.
EMRA is entitled to a share of SGMs net production surplus or profit share defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to ARE and recoverable costs.
As at 31 December 2015, PGM had not recovered its cost and, accordingly, no EMRA entitlement had been recognised at that date.
During 2016, payments to EMRA commenced as advance profit share distributions.
Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to these provisions of the Concession Agreement are recognised as dividend paid to the non-controlling interest in SGM.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 189 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 4.
Group structure continued 4.1 Subsidiaries continued The Concession Agreement grants certain tax exemptions, including the following: from 1 April 2010, being the date of commercial production, the Sukari Gold Mine is entitled to a 15-year exemption from any taxes imposed by the Egyptian government on the revenues generated from the Sukari Gold Mine.
PGM and EMRA intend that SGM will in due course file an application to extend the tax free period for a further 15 years.
The extension of the tax free period requires that there have been no tax problems or disputes in the initial period and that certain activities in new remote areas have been planned and agreed by all parties: PGM and SGM are exempt from custom taxes and duties with respect to the importation of machinery, equipment and consumable items required for the purpose of exploration and mining activities at the Sukari Gold Mine.
The exemption shall only apply if there is no local substitution with the same or similar quality to the imported machinery, equipment or consumables.
Such exemption will also be granted if the local substitution is more than 10% more expensive than the imported machinery, equipment or consumables after the additional of the insurance and transportation costs: PGM, EMRA and SGM and their respective buyers will be exempt from any duties or taxes on the export of gold and associated minerals produced from the Sukari Gold Mine: PGM at all times is free to transfer in US$ or other freely convertible foreign currency any cash of PGM representing its share of net proceeds and recovery of costs, without any Egyptian government limitation, tax or duty: PGMs contractors and subcontractors are entitled to import machinery, equipment and consumable items under the Temporary Release System which provided exemption from Egyptian customs duty: and legal title of all operating assets of PGM will pass to EMRA when cost recovery is completed.
The right of use of all fixed and movable assets remains with PGM and SGM.
4.2 Joint arrangements The consolidated entity has an interest in the following joint arrangement: Percentage interest 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Name of joint operation % % 1 Egyptian Pharaoh Investments 50 50 1 Dormant company.
The Group has a US$1 cash interest in the above joint operation.
The amount is included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
There are no capital commitments arising from the Groups interests in this joint operation.
ACCOUNTING POLICY: INTERESTS IN JOINT ARRANGEMENTS The Group applies IFRS 11 Joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11, investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations each investor.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
In relation to its interests in joint operations, the Group recognises its share of assets and liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share of the output: and its share of expenses.
SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin Group of companies, reflecting the substance and economic reality of the Concession Agreement see note 1.1.
190 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.3 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 125 130 Gain on foreign exchange movement 86 Loss on fair value of investment other comprehensive income 125 91 Balance at the end of the period 125 The financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income at period end relates to a 4.45% 2017: 5.33% equity interest in Nyota Minerals Limited, a former listed public company which delisted in September 2017, as well as a 0.17% 2017: 0.29% equity interest in KEFI Minerals plc KEFI, an AIM listed company.
Management made the decision to sell its interests in Nyota Minerals Limited and Kefi Minerals plc and the financial asset is classed as a current asset.
ACCOUNTING POLICY: FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FVOCI Listed shares and listed redeemable notes held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being FVOCI and are stated at fair value.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 3.1.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated profits with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
Dividends on FVOCI equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive the dividends is established.
The fair value of FVOCI monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in profit or loss are determined based on the amortised cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 191 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 5.
Unrecognised items 5.1 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets Contingent liabilities Fuel supply As set out in note 2.7, in January 2012, the Group received a letter from Chevron to the effect that Chevron would only be able to supply DFO Diesel Fuel Oil to the mine at Sukari at international prices rather than at local subsidised prices.
It is understood that the reason that this letter was issued was that Chevron had received a letter instructing it to do so from the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation EGPC.
It is further understood that EGPC itself issued this instruction because it had received legal advice from the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State an internal government advisory department that companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt were not entitled to such subsidies.
In November 2012, the Group received a further demand from Chevron for the repayment of fuel subsidies received during the period from late 2009 through to January 2012, for EGP403 million approximately US$22.5 million at current exchange rates.
The Group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter and, in particular, on the opinion given by the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State and in June 2012 lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the Administrative Courts.
The Group believes that its grounds for appeal are strong and that there is a good prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, and in order to ensure the continuation of supply whilst the matter is resolved, the Group has since January 2012 advanced funds to its fuel supplier, based on the international price for fuel.
As at the date of this document, no decision had been taken by the courts regarding this matter.
The Group has received an unfavourable State Commissioners report in the case: however, the report is non-binding and the Groups legal advisers remain of the view that the Group has a strong case.
The Group remains of the view that an instant move to international fuel prices is not a reasonable outcome and will look to recover funds advanced thus far should the court action be successfully concluded.
However, management recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the government and for this reason has fully provided against the prepayment of US$327.0 million.
Refer to note 2.7 of these financial statements for further details on the impact of this provision on the Groups results for 31 December 2018.
No provision has been made in respect of the historical subsidies prior to January 2012 as, based on legal advice, the Company believes that, notwithstanding the unfavourable State Commissioners report, the prospects of a court finding in its favour in relation to this matter remain very strong.
Concession Agreement court case On 30 October 2012, the Administrative Court in Egypt handed down a judgment in relation to a claim brought by, amongst others, an independent member of a previous parliament, in which he argued for the nullification of the agreement that confers on the Group rights to operate in Egypt.
This agreement, the Concession Agreement, was entered into between the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority and Centamins wholly owned subsidiary Pharaoh Gold Mines, and was approved by the Peoples Assembly as Law 222 of 1994.
In summary that judgment states that, although the Concession Agreement itself remains valid and in force, insufficient evidence had 2 been submitted to court in order to demonstrate that the 160km exploitation lease between PGM and EMRA had received approval from the relevant minister as required by the terms of the Concession Agreement.
Accordingly, the Court found that the exploitation 2 lease in respect of the area of 160km was not valid although it stated that there was in existence such a lease in respect of an area of 2 2 3km.
Centamin, however, is in possession of the executed original lease documentation which clearly shows that the 160km exploitation lease was approved by the Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources.
It appears that an executed original document was not supplied to the court in the first instance.
192 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Upon notification of the judgment the Group took various steps to protect its ability to continue to operate the mine at Sukari.
These included lodging a formal appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court on 26 November 2012.
In addition, in conjunction with the formal appeal the Group applied to the Supreme Administrative Court to suspend the initial decision until such time as the court was able to consider and rule on the merits of the appeal.
On 20 March 2013, the Court upheld this application thus suspending the initial decision and providing assurance that normal operations would be able to continue whilst the appeal process was underway.
EMRA lodged its own appeal in relation to this matter on 27 November 2012, the day after the Companys appeal was lodged, supporting the Groups view in this matter.
Furthermore, in late December 2012, the Minister of Petroleum lodged a supporting appeal and shortly thereafter publicly indicated that, in his view, the terms of the Concession Agreement were fair and that the exploitation lease was valid.
The Minister of Petroleum also expressed support for the investment and expertise that Centamin brings to the country.
The Company believes this demonstrates the governments commitment to the Groups investment at Sukari and the governments desire to stimulate further investment in the Egyptian mining industry.
The Supreme Administrative Court has stayed the Concession Agreement appeal until the Supreme Constitutional Court has ruled on the validity of Law no.
32 of 2014 restricts the capacity for third parties to challenge contractual agreements between the Egyptian government and an investor.
This law, whilst in force and ratified by the new parliament, is currently under review by the Supreme Constitutional Court SCC.
During Q2 2017, the SCC re-referred the case to the state commissioner to prepare a complementary report to an initial report provided by the state commissioner in Q1 2017 which found Law no.
The state commissioners report and complementary report are advisory and non-binding on the SCC.
The Company continues to believe that it has a strong legal position and that in the event that the SCC rules that Law no.
32 is invalid, the Group remains confident that its own appeal will be successful on the merits.
The Company does not yet know when the appeal will conclude, although it is aware of the potential for the process in Egypt to be lengthy.
The Company has taken extensive legal advice on the merits of its appeal from a number of leading Egyptian law firms who have confirmed that the proper steps were followed with regard to the grant of the 160km lease.
It therefore remains of the view that the appeal is based on strong legal grounds and will ultimately be successful.
In the event that the appellate court fails to be persuaded of the merits of the case put forward by the Group, the operations at Sukari may be adversely effected to the extent that the Groups operation exceeds the exploitation lease area of 3km referred to in the original court decision.
The Company remains confident that normal operations at Sukari will be maintained whilst the appeal case is heard.
Other contingent assets There were no other contingent assets at year end 31 December 2017: nil.
5.2 Commitments The following is a summary of the Companys outstanding commitments as at 31 December 2018: Operating lease commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 No longer than one year 1,068 1,058 Longer than one year and not longer than five years 1,673 1,656 Longer than five years 428 1,472 3,169 4,185 ACCOUNTING POLICY: LEASED ASSETS Leased assets are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where other systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
IFRS 16 will be applied from 1 January 2019.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 193 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 5.
Unrecognised items continued 5.3 Dividends per share The dividends paid in 2018 were US$144,567,233 and are reflected in the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period 2017: US$184,388,830.
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 of 3.0 US cents per share, totalling approximately US$34.6 million has been proposed by the Board of Directors and is subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting on 8 April 2019.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
As announced on 9 January 2017, the update to the Companys dividend policy sets a minimum payout level relative to cash flow while considering the financial condition of, and outlook for, the Company.
When determining the amount to be paid, the Board will take into consideration the underlying profitability of the Company and significant known or expected funding commitments.
Specifically, the Board will aim to approve an annual dividend of at least 30% of the Companys net cash flow after sustaining capital costs and following the payment of profit share due to the government of Egypt.
5.4 Subsequent events As referred to in note 5.3, subsequent to the year end, the Board proposed a final dividend for 2018 of 3.0 US cents per share.
Subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting on 8 April 2019, the final dividend will be paid on 13 May 2019 to shareholders on the record date of 23 April 2019.
There were no other significant events occurring after the reporting date requiring disclosure in the financial statements.
194 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
Other information 6.1 Related party transactions a Equity interests in related parties Equity interests in subsidiaries Details of the percentage of ordinary shares held in subsidiaries are disclosed in note 4.1.
Equity interest in associates and jointly controlled arrangements Details of interests in joint ventures are disclosed in note 4.2. b Key management personnel compensation Key management personnel are persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any Director executive or otherwise of the Group.
The aggregate compensation made to key management personnel of the consolidated entity and the Company is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$ US$ Short term employee benefits 5,731,721 6,919,135 Post-employment benefits 7,969 8,037 Share-based payments 2,398,039 2,174,475 8,137,729 9,101,647 c Key management personnel equity holdings The details of the movement in key management personnel equity holdings of fully paid ordinary shares in Centamin plc during the financial period ended 31 December 2018 are as follows: Balance at Granted as Granted as Balance at 1 January remuneration remuneration Net other 31 December 1 31 December 2018 2018 DBSP PSP change 2018 2 J El-Raghy 10,500,000 10,500,000 A Pardey 3,099,268 640,000 50,000 3,789,268 R Jerrard 1,295,000 510,000 1,805,000 G Haslam 102,056 25,000 127,056 M Arnesen 49,000 49,000 M Bankes 150,000 40,000 190,000 A Baker I Fawzy Y El-Raghy 678,753 130,000 45,091 763,662 M Morcombe 150,000 730,000 880,000 R Marshall N Bailie 166,000 150,000 316,000 M Smith 702,667 230,000 133,333 799,334 A Carse 210,000 6,336 216,336 D Le Masurier 547,000 150,000 121,000 576,000 H Brown 316,000 173,500 142,500 R Nel 120,000 120,000 1 Net other change relates to the on-market acquisition or disposal of fully paid ordinary shares.
2 Includes shareholdings attributable to the El-Raghy family.
Since 31 December 2018 to the date of this report there have been no transactions notified to the Company under DTR 3.1.
R. Centamin plc Annual report 2018 195 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 6.
Other information continued 6.1 Related party transactions continued c Key management personnel equity holdings continued The details of the movement in key management personnel equity holdings of fully paid ordinary shares in Centamin plc during the financial period ended 31 December 2017 are as follows: Balance at Granted as Granted as Balance at 1 January remuneration remuneration Net other 31 December 1 31 December 2017 2017 DBSP PSP change 2017 2 J El-Raghy 53,849,372 43,349,372 10,500,000 A Pardey 2,692,601 440,000 33,333 3,099,268 R Jerrard 875,000 420,000 1,295,000 T Schultz 30,000 2,600 32,600 G Haslam 102,056 102,056 M Arnesen 49,000 49,000 M Bankes 150,000 150,000 A Baker Y El-Raghy 869,530 72,000 262,777 678,753 M Morcombe N Bailie 166,000 166,000 M Smith 670,000 166,000 133,333 702,667 A Carse D Le Masurier 540,000 107,000 100,000 547,000 H Brown 460,000 56,000 200,000 316,000 R Nel 1 Net other change relates to the on-market acquisition or disposal of fully paid ordinary shares.
d Key management personnel share option holdings There were no options held, granted or exercised during the year by Directors or senior management in respect of ordinary shares in Centamin plc.
e Other transactions with key management personnel The related party transactions for the year ended 31 December 2018 are summarised below: salaries, superannuation contributions, bonuses, LTIs, consulting and Directors fees paid to Directors during the year ended 31 December 2018 amounted to US$3,951,939 31 December 2017: US$4,001,383 : and Josef El-Raghy is a Director and shareholder of El-Raghy Kriewaldt Pty Ltd El-Raghy Kriewaldt.
El-Raghy Kriewaldt provided office premises to the Company.
All dealings with El-Raghy Kriewaldt are in the ordinary course of business and on normal terms and conditions.
Rent and office outgoings paid to El-Raghy Kriewaldt during the period were AUD26,100 or US$21,013 31 December 2017: AUD70,564 or US$54,269, this lease ended in May 2018. f Transactions with the government of Egypt Royalty costs attributable to the government of Egypt of US$18,396,045 2017: US$20,404,473 were incurred in 2018.
Profit share to EMRA of US$77,803,732 2017: US$108,946,486 was incurred in 2018. g Transactions with other related parties Other related parties include the parent entity, subsidiaries, and other related parties.
During the financial period, the Company recognised tax payable in respect of the tax liabilities of its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Payments to from the Company are made in accordance with terms of the tax funding arrangement.
During the financial period the Company provided funds to and received funding from subsidiaries.
All amounts advanced to related parties are unsecured.
No expense has been recognised in the period for bad or doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.
Transactions and balances between the Company and its subsidiaries were eliminated in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
196 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.2 Contributions to Egypt a Gold sales agreement On 20 December 2016, SGM entered into a contract with the Central Bank of Egypt CBE.
The agreement provides that the parties may elect, on a monthly basis, for the CBE to supply SGM with its local Egyptian currency requirements for that month to a maximum value of EGP50 million.
In return, SGM facilitates the purchase of refined gold bullion for the CBE from SGMs refiner, Asahi Refining.
This transaction has been entered into as SGM requires local currency for its operations in Egypt it receives its revenue for gold sales in US dollars.
Fourteen transactions have been entered into at the date of this report, twelve of which in the current year, pursuant to this agreement, and the values related thereto are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Gold purchased 33,821 5,619 Refining costs 20 3 Freight costs 48 9 33,889 5,631 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Oz Oz Gold purchased 26,621 4,404 At 31 December 2018 the net receivable in EGP owing from the Central Bank of Egypt is approximately the equivalent of US$40,618.
b University grant During the year, the Group together with Sami El-Raghy and the University of Alexandria Faculty of Science initiated a sponsored scholarship agreement, the Michael Kriewaldt Scholarships to outstanding geology major students to enrol at the postgraduate research programme of the geology department of the university for their MSc and or PhD in mining and mineral resources.
EGP10,000,000, EGP7,330,000 by PGM and EGP2,670,000 by Sami El-Raghy, was deposited in a fixed deposit account of which the interest earned will be put towards the cost of the scholarships and will be administered by the University on the conditions set out in the agreement.
6.3 Share-based payments Performance share plan The Companys shareholder approved performance share plan PSP allows the Company the right to grant awards as defined below to employees of the Group.
Awards may take the form of either conditional share awards, where shares are transferred conditionally upon the satisfaction of performance conditions: or share options, which may take the form of nil cost options or have a nominal exercise price, the exercise of which is again subject to satisfaction of applicable performance conditions.
Proposed changes will be put forward at the forthcoming AGM bringing the plan rules in line with best practice and expectations of institutional investors.
Full details of the proposed changes are set out in the Directors remuneration report and AGM notice.
The awards due to be granted in June 2019 will vest following the passing of three years.
Vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions and for Executive Directors a full two year post vesting holding period.
Awards will vest based upon a blend of three year relative TSR, cash flow and production targets, full details of which are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
These measures are assessed by reference to current market practice and the Remuneration Committee will have regard to current market practice when establishing the precise performance conditions for awards.
To date, the Company has granted the following conditional awards to employees of the Group: June 2015 awards Of the 5,145,000 awards granted on 4 June 2015 under the PSP, 2,615,000 awards vested to 13 eligible participants on 4 June 2018, half of which are subject to a two-year holding period, based on the following performance criteria: 20% of the award shall be assessed by reference to a target total shareholder return: 50% of the award shall be assessed by reference to absolute growth in earnings per share: and 30% of the award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in gold production.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 197 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 6.
Other information continued 6.3 Share-based payments continued Performance share plan continued June 2016 awards Of the 4,999,000 awards granted on 4 June 2016 under the PSP, 3,749,000 awards remain granted to eligible participants 25 in total applying the following performance criteria: 20% of the award shall be assessed by reference to a target total shareholder return: 30% of the award shall be assessed by reference to mineral reserve replacement and growth: 20% of the award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in EBITDA: and 30% of the award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in gold production.
June 2017 awards Of the 3,459,000 awards granted on 4 June 2017 under the PSP, 3,115,000 awards remain granted to eligible participants 35 in total applying the following performance criteria: 20% of the award shall be assessed by reference to a target total shareholder return: 30% of the award shall be assessed by reference to mineral reserve replacement and growth: 20% of the award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in Adjusted EBITDA: and 30% of the award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in gold production.
June 2018 awards Of the 4,908,000 awards granted on 27 June 2017 under the PSP, 4,714,000 awards remain granted to eligible participants 40 in total applying the following performance criteria: 40% of the award shall be assessed by reference to a target total shareholder return: 20% of the award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in Adjusted EBITDA: and 40% of the award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in gold production.
Conditional share awards and options together constitute awards under the plan and those in receipt of awards are award holders.
A detailed summary of the scheme rules is set out in the 2016 AGM proxy materials which are available at www.
In brief, awards will vest following the passing of three years from the date of the award and vesting will be subject to satisfaction of performance conditions.
The above measures are assessed by reference to current market practice and the Remuneration Committee will have regard to market practice when establishing the precise performance conditions for future awards.
Where the performance conditions have been met, in the case of conditional awards, 50% of the total shares under the award will be issued or transferred to the award holders on or as soon as possible following the specified vesting date, with the remaining 50% being issued or transferred on the second anniversary of the vesting date.
Performance share plan awards granted during the period: PSP 2018 Grant date 27 June 2018 Number of instruments 4,908,000 1 TSR: fair value at grant date GBP 0.54 1 TSR: fair value at grant date US$ 0.71 1 EBITDA and gold production: fair value at grant date GBP 1.02 1 EBITDA and gold production: fair value at grant date US$ 1.34 Vesting period years 3 Expected volatility % 42.70 Expected dividend yield % 4.82 1 The vesting of 40% of the awards granted under this plan are dependent on a TSR performance condition.
As relative TSR is defined as a market condition under IFRS 2 Share-based payments, this requires that the valuation model used takes into account the anticipated performance outcome.
We have therefore applied a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The simulation model takes into account the probability of performance based on the expected volatility of Centamin and the peer group companies and the expected correlation of returns between the companies in the comparator group.
The remaining 60% of the awards are subject to EBITDA and gold production performance conditions.
As these are classified as non-market conditions under IFRS 2 they do not need to be taken into account when determining the fair value.
These grants have been valued using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value calculated was then converted at the closing GBP:US$ foreign exchange rate on that day.
198 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred bonus share plan DBSP In 2012, the Company implemented the DBSP, which is a long term share incentive arrangement for senior management but not Executive Directors and other employees participants.
On 4 June 2013, the Group offered to both the beneficiaries of the shares awarded under the Employee Loan Funded Share Plan ELFSP and to the majority of the beneficiaries of the options granted under the Employee Option Scheme EOS the choice to replace their awards and options with awards under the DBSP.
The Group has accounted for this change as modifications to the share-based payment plans and will be recognising the incremental fair value granted, measured in accordance with IFRS 2, by this replacement over the vesting period of the new DBSP awards.
Under this offer, each participant has been granted a number of awards under the DBSP equivalent to the number of shares or options held under the ELFSP and EOS respectively.
Such DBSP awards shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the DBSP and shall ordinarily vest in three equal tranches on the anniversary of the grant date, conditional upon the continued employment with the Group.
All offers made to participants were accepted.
The award of the deferred shares will not have any performance criteria attached.
They will, however, be subject to a service period.
DBSP awards granted during the period: DBSP 2018 Grant date 27 June 2018 Number of instruments 150,000 1 Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 1 1.14 1 Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 1 US$ 1.50 1 Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 2 1.08 1 Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 2 US$ 1.42 1 Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 3 1.02 1 Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 3 US$ 1.34 2 Vesting period Tranche 1 years 1 2 Vesting period Tranche 2 years 2 2 Vesting period Tranche 3 years 3 Expected dividend yield Tranche 1 % 3.67% Expected dividend yield Tranche 2 % 4.40% Expected dividend yield Tranche 3 % 4.82% 1 The fair value of the shares awarded under the DBSP were calculated by using the closing share price on grant date, converted at the closing GBP:US$ foreign exchange rate on that day.
No other factors were taken into account in determining the fair value of the shares awarded under the DBSP.
2 Variable vesting dependent on one to three years of continuous employment.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 199 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 6.
Other information continued 6.3 Share-based payments continued ACCOUNTING POLICY: SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Equity settled share-based payments with employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the equity instrument at grant date.
Fair value is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes model.
Where share-based payments are subject to market conditions, fair value was measured by the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting period, based on the consolidated entitys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Share-based payments Equity settled share-based transactions with other parties are measured at the fair value of the goods or services received, except where the fair value cannot be estimated reliably, in which case they are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments granted, measured at the date the entity obtains the goods or the counterparty renders the service.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: including any market performance conditions for example, an entitys share price : excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions for example, profitability and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the requirement for employees to save or holding shares for a specific period of time.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Further details on how the fair value of equity settled share-based transactions has been determined can be found above.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss over the remaining vesting period, with corresponding adjustment to the equity settled employee benefits reserve.
6.4 Earnings per share EPS attributable to owners of the parent 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US cents US cents per share per share Basic earnings per share 6.497 8.377 Diluted earnings per share 6.444 8.312 Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Earnings used in the calculation of basic EPS 74,845 96,355 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,151,925,674 1,150,221,295 Diluted earnings per share attributed to owners of the parent The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Earnings used in the calculation of diluted EPS 74,845 96,355 200 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,151,925,674 1,150,221,295 Shares deemed to be issued for no consideration in respect of employee options 9,589,301 8,993,379 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS 1,161,514,975 1,159,214,674 No potential ordinary shares were excluded from the calculation of weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share.
6.5 Auditors remuneration The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 370 374 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 95 86 regulatory enquiries 78 Total audit fees 543 460 Non-audit fees: Audit related assurance services interim review 104 107 Other assurance services 9 52 Risk management and advisory services 53 13 Other services 1 24 Total non-audit fees 167 196 The Audit and Risk Committee and the external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditors for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditors of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved.
All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Audit and Risk Committee.
6.6 General information Centamin plc the Company is a listed public company, incorporated and domiciled in Jersey and operating through subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities operating in Egypt, Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire, United Kingdom and Australia.
It is the Parent Company of the Group, comprising the Company and its subsidiaries and joint arrangements.
Registered office and principal place of business: Centamin plc 2 Mulcaster Street St Helier, Jersey JE2 3NJ The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the governance report and the strategic report of the annual report.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 201 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2018 6.
Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements are denominated in US dollars US$, which is the presentational currency of Centamin plc.
All companies in the Group use the US$ as their functional currency except for the UK subsidiaries which are denominated in Great British pounds GBP and the Australian subsidiaries which are denominated in Australian dollars AUD.
All financial statements presented in US dollars has been rounded to the nearest thousand dollars, unless otherwise stated.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use by the European Union and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC both as adopted by the European Union EU and which are mandatory for EU reporting as at 31 December 2018, the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The Group has not early adopted any other amendments, standards or interpretations that have been issued but are not yet mandatory.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit and loss.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 1 March 2019.
Comparative figures Certain comparative figures have been restated to conform to the financial statement presentation and policies adopted for the current year.
The effect on results as previously reported has been illustrated in the relevant notes.
1 for the change in treatment on amounts distributed to EMRA and note 1.2.
1 regarding the change in accounting policy for exploration and evaluation assets for the change to comparative figures.
Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements are prepared by combining the financial statements of all the entities that comprise the consolidated entity, being the Company the parent entity and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control, as defined in IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements.
Consistent accounting policies are employed in the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements include the information and results of each subsidiary from the date on which the Company obtains control and until such time as the Company ceases to control such entity.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, all intercompany balances and transactions, and unrealised profits arising within the consolidated entity, are eliminated in full.
Sukari Gold Mine SGM is jointly owned by PGM and EMRA on a 50% basis.
For accounting purposes, SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin Group of companies, reflecting the substance and economic reality of the Concession Agreement see note 1.1 and 4.1 and will therefore recognise a non-controlling interest NCI for EMRAs participation.
Furthermore, based on the requirements of the Concession Agreement, payments to NCI meet the definition of a liability and will be recorded in the income statement as profit attributable to non-controlling interest in SGM and the statement of financial position as Equity attributable to the non-controlling interest in SGM, on the date that a net production surplus becomes available.
Payment made to EMRA pursuant to the provisions of the Concession Agreement is based on the net production surplus available as at 30 June, being SGMs financial year end.
Pursuant to the Concession Agreement, the provisions of which are described more fully below, whilst PGM is responsible for funding SGMs activities, PGM is also entitled to recover the following costs and expenses payable from sales revenue excluding the royalty payable to the Arab Republic of Egypt ARE : a all current operating expenses incurred and paid after the initial commercial production: b exploration costs, including those accumulated to the commencement of commercial production at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated cost per annum : and c exploitation capital costs, including those accumulated prior to the commencement of commercial production at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated cost per annum.
EMRA is entitled to a share of 50% of SGMs net production surplus which is defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to Arab Republic of Egypt ARE and recoverable costs.
However, in accordance with the terms of the Concession Agreement, in the first and second years in which there is a profit share, PGM will be entitled to an additional 10% of net production surplus and an additional 5% in the third and fourth years.
Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to these provisions of the Concession Agreement will be recognised as a dividend paid to non-controlling interest in SGM in the statement of changes in equity of Centamin.
202 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Going concern This financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations.
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through existing cash resources.
As discussed in note 5.1, the operation of the mine has been affected by two legal actions.
The first of these followed from a decision taken by Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation EGPC to charge international, not local subsidised prices for the supply of DFO, and the second arose as a result of a 2 judgment of the Administrative Court of first instance in relation to, amongst other matters, the Companys 160km exploitation lease.
In relation to the first decision, the Company remains confident that in the event that it is required to continue to pay international prices, the mine at Sukari will remain commercially viable.
Similarly, the Company remains confident that the appeal it has lodged in relation to the decision of the Administrative Court will ultimately be successful, although final resolution of it may take some time.
On 20 March 2013 the Supreme Administrative Court upheld the Companys application to suspend the decision until the merits of the Companys appeal were considered and ruled on, thus providing assurance that normal operations will be able to continue during this process.
In the unlikely event that the Group is unsuccessful in either or both of its legal actions, and that the operating activities are restricted to a reduced area, it is the Directors belief that the Group will be able to continue as going concern.
Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed in connection with the long term viability statement refer to the risk management report included within the annual report, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Accounting policies Accounting policies are selected and applied in a manner which ensures that the resulting financial statements satisfy the concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby ensuring that the substance of the underlying transactions or other events is reported.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
