Notes to the Financial Statements The following standards and amendments to IFRSs became effective Notes to the Financial Statements provide additional for the period beginning on 1 January 2018 and did not have a information required by statute, accounting standards or Listing material impact on the consolidated financial statements: Rules to explain a particular feature of the consolidated IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Financial Statements.
Consideration: The notes to these Financial Statements focus on areas that Classification and Measurement of Share-Based Payment are key to understanding our business.
Additional information Transactions -- Am - endments to IFRS 2: that we are required to disclose by accounting standards or regulation is disclosed in the Supplementary Information notes Annual Improvements 2014-2016 Cycle: and S1 to S11.
Transfers of Investment Property -- Amend - ments to IAS 40.
In addition, for clarity, each note begins with a simple IFRS 9 introduction outlining its purpose.
The Group adopted IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018.
In accordance with the transition provisions in the Standard, comparatives have not been restated.
Summary of significant new accounting Classification of financial assets policies and reporting changes IFRS 9 requires the use of two criteria to determine the classification of financial assets: the entitys business model for the financial assets This section details new accounting standards, amendments to and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets.
standards and interpretations, whether these are effective in The Standard goes on to identify three categories of financial assets - 2018 or later years, and if and how these are expected to amortised cost: fair value through profit or loss FVTPL : and fair value impact the financial position and performance of the Group.
through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
As a result of adopting IFRS 9, certain debt financial instruments The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these previously classified as available-for-sale and measured at FVOCI have consolidated Financial Statements are set out below and in the been reclassified and are now measured at FVTPL.
The value of debt Supplementary Information note S2.
Unless otherwise stated, these instruments reclassified at 1 January 2018 was 74 million.
policies have been consistently applied to the years presented.
Consequently, on the same date 28 million of previous fair value a Basis of preparation gains, net of taxation, were reclassified from the available-for-sale The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in reserve to retained earnings.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Groups remaining available-for-sale assets were equity adopted by the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article instruments and at 1 January 2018 the Group elected to classify these 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and those parts of the Companies Act at FVOCI, thereby retaining the previous measurement treatment.
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Certain cash and cash equivalents money market funds have also The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the been classified as FVTPL on adoption of IFRS 9. historical cost basis except for: certain oil and gas inventory, derivative A summary of all reclassifications, which have resulted in no change to financial instruments, financial instruments designated at fair value the carrying value of any financial instrument, is shown below.
All other through profit or loss on initial recognition or required to be measured financial instruments cash and deposits, trade receivables, borrowings, at fair value through profit or loss or other comprehensive income on derivative instruments etc.
measurement categories and carrying initial recognition, and the assets of the Groups defined benefit amounts remain the same.
pension schemes that have been measured at fair value: the liabilities IAS 39 measurement IFRS 9 measurement 1 January 2018 of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes that have been Type of financial instrument category category m measured using the projected unit credit valuation method: and the Non-current financial carrying values of recognised assets and liabilities qualifying as assets hedged items in fair value hedges that have been adjusted from Equity securities Available-for-sale FVOCI 34 cost by the changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that Debt securities Available-for-sale FVTPL 74 are being hedged.
Current financial The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS, as assets adopted by the EU, requires the use of certain critical accounting Cash and cash estimates.
It requires management to exercise its judgement in the equivalents -- mo - ney process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas market funds Amortised cost FVTPL 2,022 involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity and areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated Impairment Financial Statements are described in notes 2 and 3.
IFRS 9 mandates the use of an expected credit loss model to b Standards, amendments and interpretations calculate impairment losses rather than an incurred loss model, and therefore it is not necessary for a credit event to have occurred before effective or adopted in 2018 credit losses are recognised.
The new impairment model applies to From 1 January 2018, the following standards and amendments the Groups financial assets, contract assets and loan commitments.
are effective in the Groups consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 9: Financial instruments IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers The impact of adoption of these standards and the key changes to the accounting policies are disclosed below.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements multiplied by the contractually agreed price per unit of energy.
Summary of significant new accounting Revenue from the sale of additional volumes is considered to be policies and reporting changes variable and not included in the transaction price.
Revenue for these No changes to the Groups impairment provisions were made on contracts continues to be recognised as invoiced.
The majority of trade receivables reside in the Energy services provided to business Groups energy supply and services businesses, where a and residential customers sophisticated provision matrix approach is already applied to establish impairment provisions and the inclusion of specific expected credit Energy services in the scope of IFRS 15 relate to the installation, repair and maintenance of central heating, ventilation and air conditioning loss considerations did not have a material impact.
In addition, a significant portion of the Groups other financial assets subject to systems as well as smaller installation services across the UK, Ireland and North America.
IFRS 9s requirements are in the Groups Treasury function where investment ratings of counterparties result in low credit risk and the In the UK, delivery of an item is considered a separate performance calculated loss according to the assessed default rate of these obligation to the installation of the item, both satisfied at a point in time.
Credit losses on financial assets are Delivery is the point at which control passes to the customer as the now disclosed separately on the face of the Group Income Statement customer takes physical possession of the asset.
It is also the point at in accordance with IAS 1: Presentation of financial statements.
which the Group has the right to consideration.
Delivery and installation usually occur at the same point in time and consequently revenue is Hedge accounting recognised for both performance obligations simultaneously.
The Group has not applied IFRS 9s hedge accounting requirements and continues to account for its hedge relationships in accordance The five-year warranty provided with a boiler is not considered with IAS 39. a separate performance obligation.
IFRS 15 Certain heating, ventilation and air conditioning HVAC system installations in North America are considered to be a single The Group adopted IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with performance obligation satisfied over time, representing the Groups customers from 1 January 2018.
The primary impact of application promise to deliver to the customer a functioning HVAC system.
is the revision of accounting policies to reflect the five-step approach The duration of these contracts may be over a number of weeks to revenue recognition required by IFRS 15, resulting in insignificant and the performance obligation is deemed to be satisfied over this adjustments to amounts previously recognised in the financial period.
Revenue is recognised on an input basis with reference to statements, although comparatives have been restated.
The key changes to accounting policies are described below.
Sales of own gas and liquid production Energy supply to business and residential customers Revenue arising from the sale of produced gas is recognised in a The Group supplies gas and electricity to residential and business manner consistent with energy supply contracts with the revenue customers in the UK, Ireland and North America.
The vast majority of recognition profile reflecting the supply of gas to the customer.
In contractual energy supply arrangements have no fixed duration, respect of oil sales, each barrel of oil is considered a separate require no minimum consumption by the customer and can be performance obligation satisfied at a point in time -- o - n delivery.
terminated by either party at any time.
The Group has determined that The rights and obligations identifiable within a contract where the no enforceable rights and obligations exist at inception of the contract Group holds sellers nomination rights are considered to be and arise only once the cooling off period is complete and the Group enforceable from inception of the contract.
The transaction price is the legal supplier of energy to the customer.
The performance for the contract will include variable consideration based on forecast obligation is the supply of energy over the contractual term: the units production and market prices.
The point at which the performance of supply represent a series of distinct goods that are substantially the obligation is satisfied and revenue recognised is the point at which same with the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
The control of the commodity passes to the customer according to the performance obligation is considered to be satisfied as the customer contractual trading terms, usually on shipment or delivery to a consumes based on the units of energy delivered.
This is the point at specified location.
Further details of the Groups revenue recognition policy are given In respect of energy supply contracts, the Group considers that it has in note S2.
the right to consideration from the customer for an amount that corresponds directly with the value delivered to the customer through Transition approach their consumption.
It is the judgement of the Group that the customer In accordance with the transition provisions in IFRS 15, the Group has consumes energy as the Group supplies and, as a result, the Group adopted the new rules retrospectively and has restated comparatives recognises revenue for the amount which the entity has a right to for the 2017 financial year.
The Groups assessment of the amount that it has a right to The Group has applied the following practical expedients on initial invoice includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers application: between the date of the last meter reading and the year end known IFRS 15:C5 a i, ii : Exemption from the requirement to apply the as unread revenue.
Unread gas and electricity comprises both billed standard to contracts that begin and end within the same annual and unbilled revenue and is estimated through the billing systems, reporting period and contracts completed at the beginning of the using historical consumption patterns, on a customer-by-customer earliest period presented: and basis, taking into account weather patterns, load forecasts and the differences between actual meter readings being returned and system IFRS 15:C5 b : Use of the transaction price at the date the contract estimates.
Actual meter readings continue to be compared to system was completed for completed contracts with variable consideration estimates between the balance sheet date and the finalisation of rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the the accounts.
The Group holds a number of energy supply contracts that specify a None of the above practical expedients had a material effect on the minimum consumption volume over a specified contractual term.
transaction price for these contracts is the minimum supply volume 130 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 1.
Summary of significant new accounting policies and reporting changes In summary, the adjustments resulted in a 12 million increase in revenue, and a 5 million decrease in earnings for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The following adjustments were also made to the amounts recognised in the comparative balance sheet presented in these consolidated Financial Statements: 31 December 31 December 2017 2017 m m Energy supply IAS 18 carrying contract Franchise IFRS 15 carrying amount Reclassification commissions i revenue ii amount m m m m m Trade and other receivables, and contract-related assets: 1 year 87 8 2 --9 - 7 1 year 4,668 8 9 --- 4,669 Trade and other payables, and contract-related assets: 1 year 5,412 --- - - 6 - 5,418 Deferred tax liabilities 173 --- 3 2 174 i Commissions paid on acquisition of energy supply contracts have been capitalised as a cost to obtain a contract.
These costs will be amortised over the average contract duration.
ii Consideration received from franchisees previously recognised as revenue upon receipt is deferred and recognised over the life of the franchise agreement.
The impact on the Groups opening retained earnings is as follows: 2018 2017 1 January m m Retained earnings before IFRS 9 application : 1,180 1,504 Energy supply contract commissions, net of taxation 8 13 Franchise revenue, net of taxation 4 4 1,184 1,513 recognised on a straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss.
c Standards and amendments that are issued but not After adjusting for these items and the re-measurement of the existing yet applied by the Group Spalding finance lease, the Group expects to recognise incremental Endorsed by the EU lease liabilities and associated right-of-use assets of approximately The Group has not applied the following standards and amendments 420 million at 1 January 2019, thereby increasing net debt.
in the consolidated Group Financial Statements as they are not yet There is no deferred tax impact on initial application.
effective, although they have been endorsed by the EU and will be The Group does not expect a material earnings impact to arise as a effective from 1 January 2019, unless otherwise indicated: result of application however, as all future cash flows will be treated IFRS 16: Leases: as financing there will be an annual improvement to operating cash IFRIC 23: Uncertainty over income tax treatments: flows and consequently, adjusted operating cash flow in the region of 100 million.
Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment features with negative compensation: and Management does not currently expect the future application of other standards and amendments to have a material impact on Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term interests in associates and the amounts reported and disclosed in the consolidated joint ventures.
IFRS 16 Not endorsed by the EU IFRS 16: Leases was issued in January 2016 and will have a significant impact on the Groups consolidated Financial Statements The Group has not applied the following standards and amendments as all leases will be recognised on the balance sheet with the in the consolidated Group Financial Statements as they are not yet exception of short-term and low value leases, with a corresponding effective and they have not been endorsed by the EU: right-of-use asset also recognised.
IFRS 17: Insurance contracts, effective from 1 January 2021: The Group will apply the standard from its mandatory adoption date Amendments to IAS 19: Plan amendment, curtailment or of 1 January 2019, utilising the simplified transition approach with settlement, effective from 1 January 2019: existing lease assessments being grandfathered and comparatives Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle: not being restated for the year prior to initial application.
All right-ofAmendments to IFRS 3: Business combinations, IFRS 11: Joint use assets will be measured at the amount of the lease liability arrangements, IAS 12: Income taxes and IAS 23: Borrowing on adoption.
costs, effective from 1 January 2019: Existing lease arrangements have been reviewed during the year Amendments to references to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS to determine the impact of adoption, along with other contractual Standards, effective from 1 January 2020: arrangements to identify the existence of embedded leases.
The lease Amendments to IFRS 3: Business Combinations, effective portfolio of the Group will not change significantly as a result of IFRS 1 January 2020: and 16 as the standard primarily affects the accounting for arrangements previously assessed as operating leases.
Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8: Definition of Material, effective 1 January 2020.
At the reporting date, the Groups operating lease commitment of 343 million includes 5 million short-term leases which will be Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 131 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements The measure of operating profit used by management to evaluate 1.
Summary of significant new accounting segment performance is adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating policies and reporting changes profit is defined as operating profit before: IFRS 17: Insurance contracts was issued in May 2017.
Assuming exceptional items: and it is endorsed by the EU, this new standard will not be effective before 1 January 2021 a proposal has been made to postpone the current certain re-measurements: effective date to 1 January 2022.
The Group currently has fixed-fee but including: service contracts that it accounts for as insurance contracts under the Groups share of business performance results from joint IFRS 4: Insurance contracts.
Under IFRS 17, subject to certain ventures and associates before interest and taxation.
conditions, there is an accounting policy choice to account for these Exceptional items and certain re-measurements are excluded because contracts under IFRS 17 or IFRS 15.
As this could change the these items are considered by the Directors to distort the Groups accounting for these contracts, this will be considered during the underlying business performance.
See note 2 b for further details.
The Groups share of results from joint ventures and associates is The amendments to IAS 19 apply to plan amendments, curtailments presented before interest and taxation because this gives a consistent or settlements that occur on or after 1 January 2019, and the measurement of results compared to wholly owned subsidiaries.
amendments to IFRS 3 and IFRS 11 apply to acquisitions of additional Note 4 contains an analysis of adjusted operating profit by segment interests in joint arrangements for which the acquisition date is on or and a reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to operating profit after after 1 January 2019.
As these types of transactions can vary in size exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
and are non-recurring in nature, the Group cannot quantify the effect that these amendments could potentially have in the future.
Note 4 also contains an analysis of adjusted operating profit after taxation by segment and a reconciliation to the statutory results for Management does not currently expect the future application of the year.
Adjusted operating profit after taxation is defined as adjusted the other interpretations and amendments to have a material impact operating profit, net of associated taxation, before: on the amounts reported and disclosed in the consolidated Financial Statements.
the impact of changes to UK and US corporation tax rates: and In November 2018 the IFRIC issued a tentative pronouncement on the certain corporate and other taxation.
Physical Settlement of Contracts to Buy or Sell a non-Financial Item.
Given the significant variance in tax rates for different jurisdictions and This tentatively concluded that, for physical commodity trades within different businesses within the Group, this measure provides the scope of IFRS 9, entities should not transfer previously management with an analysis of each segments contribution to overall recognised, unrealised mark-to-market movements to different earnings.
The impact of changes to UK and US corporation tax rates is income statement line items upon realisation.
If ratified, this decision excluded because it predominantly relates to future tax impacts rather would require a change to the Groups revenue and cost of sale than the current year performance.
The measure excludes interest and presentation, although there would be no impact on gross profit.
related tax impacts because this measure provides an analysis of the d Other restatements segments operating performance and its contribution to earnings before the impact of the financing of the segment.
Following the announcement made by the Group in June 2017 that the Rough facility could not safely be returned to storage and injection Adjusted earnings is defined as earnings before: operations, and the granting of a production consent from January exceptional items net of taxation: and 2018, the Rough field has operated as a producing gas asset.
certain re-measurements net of taxation.
Therefore, reflecting this change in activity, and the segmental performance information reviewed by the Groups Executive A reconciliation of adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share Committee which is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker as is provided in note 10. defined by IFRS 8: Operating segments, the Groups reportable Adjusted operating cash flow is used by management to assess the segments have been revised to present Centrica Storage of which cash generating abilities of each segment.
Adjusted operating cash the Rough field is the principal asset as part of Exploration & flow is defined as net cash flow from operating activities before: Production.
Comparatives have been re-presented accordingly.
payments relating to exceptional items: deficit reduction payments made to the UK defined benefit pension 2.
Centrica specific accounting measures schemes: and This section sets out the Groups specific accounting measures movements in variation margin and cash collateral that are included applied in the preparation of the consolidated Financial in net debt: Statements.
These measures enable the users of the accounts but including: to understand the Groups underlying and statutory business dividends received from joint ventures and associates.
Payments related to exceptional items are excluded because the a Use of adjusted performance measures Directors do not consider these to represent underlying business performance.
Deficit reduction payments and movements in variation The Directors believe that reporting adjusted profit, adjusted earnings margin and cash collateral are excluded because the Directors do not per share and adjusted operating cash flow provides additional useful consider these to represent the operating cash flows generated by information on business performance and underlying trends.
These underlying business performance, as they are predominantly triggered measures are used for internal performance purposes.
The adjusted by wider market factors and, in the case of variation margin and cash measures in this report are not defined terms under IFRS and may collateral, these represent timing differences.
Dividends received from not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by joint ventures and associates are considered by the Directors to other companies.
represent operating cash flows generated by the Groups operations that are structured in this manner.
132 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 the classification of energy contracts as derivative financial 2.
Centrica specific accounting measures instruments and presentation as certain re-measurements b Exceptional items and certain re-measurements see notes 2, 7 and 19.
The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the business In addition, management has made the following key judgements performance column of the Group Income Statement.
To be able in applying the Groups accounting policies that have the most to provide users with this clear and consistent presentation, the significant effect on the consolidated Group Financial Statements.
effects of certain re-measurements of financial instruments, and Leases -- - third-party power station tolling arrangements exceptional items, are reported in a different column in the Group The Groups Spalding long-term power station tolling contract in Income Statement.
the UK is considered a lease.
The Group is an integrated energy business.
This means that it utilises The arrangement provided Centrica with the right to nominate 100% of its knowledge and experience across the gas and power and related the plant capacity for the duration of the contract in return for a mix of commodity value chains to make profits across the core markets in capacity payments and operating payments based on plant availability.
As part of this strategy, the Group enters into a number of forward energy trades to protect and optimise the value of The Spalding contract runs until 2021 and Centrica holds an option to its underlying production, generation, storage and transportation assets extend the tolling arrangement for a further eight years, exercisable by and similar capacity or off-take contracts, as well as to meet the future 30 September 2020.
If extended, Centrica is granted an option to needs of its customers downstream demand.
These trades are purchase the station at the end of this further period.
Management designed to reduce the risk of holding such assets, contracts or has determined that the arrangement should be accounted for as a downstream demand and are subject to strict risk limits and controls.
finance lease, as the lease term was judged to be substantially all of the economic life of the power station and the present value of the Primarily because some of these trades include terms that permit net settlement, they are prohibited from being designated as own use minimum lease payments at the inception date of the arrangement amounted to substantially all of the fair value of the power station at and so IFRS 9: Financial instruments requires them to be individually fair valued.
Fair value movements on these commodity derivative that time.
trades do not reflect the underlying performance of the business Details of the interest charges, finance lease asset and finance lease because they are economically related to our upstream assets, payable are included in notes 8, 13 and 24 respectively.
capacity off-take contracts or downstream demand, which are As a result of the suspension of the UK Capacity Market, alongside typically not fair valued.
Therefore, these certain re-measurements reductions in forecast future peak spark spreads, an onerous contract are reported separately and are subsequently reflected in business provision has been recognised in relation to the Spalding contract.
performance when the underlying transaction or asset impacts See note 7 for further details.
Spirit Energy consolidation and preference shares The arrangements discussed above and reflected as certain reDuring 2017, the Group acquired Bayerngas Norges exploration and measurements are all managed separately from proprietary energy production business and combined this with the Groups existing trading activities where trades are entered into speculatively for the Exploration & Production business to form Spirit Energy business SE.
purpose of making profits in their own right.
These proprietary trades The Group, through its board majority, can control decisions that are included in the business performance column of the Group represent Board Reserved Matters, which include the approval or Income Statement, in the results before certain re-measurements.
amendment of the Business Plan or the Budget.
The Directors Exceptional items are those items that, in the judgement of the consider that the right to approve or amend the Business Plan or Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, Budget provides control over the relevant activities that most size or incidence.
Again, to ensure the business performance column significantly influence the variable returns of the SE business.
The reflects the underlying results of the Group, these exceptional items are Group, through its board majority, has power over this decision.
Whilst also reported in the separate column in the Group Income Statement.
SE has been established as an independent business, this is judged Items that may be considered exceptional in nature include disposals not to prevent the Group concluding that it controls SE.
Additionally, of businesses or significant assets, business restructurings including Fundamental Reserved Matters, which require unanimous consent, property rationalisation costs, significant onerous contract charges are judged to represent minority protection rather than decision releases, asset impairments write-backs, certain pension costs past making rights associated with the relevant activities.
Consequently, service credits, the tax effects of these items and the effect of changes SE is fully consolidated with a non-controlling interest of 31%.
The Group and SWM Gasbeteiligungs GmbH & Co. KG hold preference shares in Spirit Energy Limited the parent company of SE, 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key the redemption and conversion rights of which have been reviewed by sources of estimation uncertainty the Directors and in each case the redemption is at the discretion of the issuer.
Whilst the agreements provide incentives for the Group to This section sets out the key areas of judgement and redeem these shares through the waiver of its dividend under certain estimation that have the most significant effect on the amounts circumstances, and the agreements indicate an intention to redeem, recognised in the consolidated Financial Statements.
the Group has concluded that Spirit Energy Limited retains the discretion to avoid redemption and therefore the preference shares do a Critical judgements in applying the Groups not represent an obligation.
Similarly, the conversion rights are at the accounting policies discretion of Spirit Energy Limited and do not create an obligation.
Such key judgements include the following: The preference shares pay a fixed coupon or dividend of 5.5% plus the presentation of selected items as exceptional see notes 2 a floating element subject to a cap of 1.5%, and again despite the agreement stating a dividend policy and the intention to pay and 7 : dividends, these remain at the discretion of the directors of Spirit the use of adjusted profit, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted operating cash flow measures see notes 2, 4 and 10 : and Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements forecasts and the differences between actual meter readings being 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key returned and system estimates.
Actual meter readings continue to be sources of estimation uncertainty compared to system estimates between the balance sheet date and Energy Limited.
Accordingly, the preference shares are deemed to the finalisation of the accounts.
represent equity rather than a financial liability and therefore the 31% An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to materially held by SWM Gasbeteiligungs GmbH & Co. KG forms part of the affect the ultimate economic benefits that will flow to the Group, Groups non-controlling interest balance.
including bill cancellation and re-bill rates.
Estimated revenue is Energy Company Obligation restricted to the amount the Group expects to be entitled to in The Energy Company Obligation ECO order requires UK-licensed exchange for energy supplied.
The judgements applied, and the energy suppliers to improve the energy efficiency of domestic assumptions underpinning these judgements, are considered to be households.
Targets are set in proportion to the size of historic appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions would have an customer bases.
ECO phase 1 and ECO phase 2 had delivery impact on the amount of revenue recognised.
Unbilled revenue dates of 31 March 2015 and 30 September 2018 extended from recognised on the balance sheet within trade and other receivables 31 March 2017, respectively.
ECO phase 3 is currently effective at 31 December 2018 was 1,542 million 2017: 1,585 million.
with a delivery date of 31 March 2022.
Although this phase includes Industry reconciliation process -- - cost of sales certain sub-obligations, there are no interim targets and, consistent Industry reconciliation procedures are required as differences arise with previous years, the Group continues to judge that it is not legally between the estimated quantity of gas and electricity the Group obligated by the order until delivery date.
Accordingly, the costs of deems to have supplied and billed customers, and the estimated delivery are recognised as incurred, when cash has been spent or quantity industry system operators deem the individual suppliers, unilateral commitments made, resulting in obligations that could not including the Group, to have supplied to customers.
in deemed supply is referred to as imbalance.
The reconciliation Metering contracts procedures can result in either a higher or a lower value of industry The Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy has deemed supply than has been estimated as being supplied to modified UK gas and electricity supply licences requiring all domestic customers by the Group, but in practice tends to result in a higher premises to be fitted with compliant smart meters for measuring value of industry deemed supply.
The Group reviews the difference energy consumption by 31 December 2020.
The Group has a to ascertain whether there is evidence that its estimate of amounts number of existing rental contracts for non-compliant meters that supplied to customers is inaccurate or whether the difference arises include penalty charges if these meters are removed from use before from other causes.
The Groups share of the resulting imbalance the end of their deemed useful lives.
The Group considers that these is included within commodity costs charged to cost of sales.
contracts are not onerous until the meters have been physically Management estimates the level of recovery of imbalance that will removed from use and, therefore, only recognises a provision for be achieved either through subsequent customer billing or through penalty charges at this point.
The adjustments for In 2015, as part of the smart meter roll-out, the Group renewed meter imbalance at 31 December 2018 are not significant.
Changes rental arrangements with third parties, with a further extension of one resulting from these management estimates can be material with contract in 2018.
The Group assessed that these were not leases adjustments of up to 30 million having been made in the last few because at inception of the contract there were no specified assets, years, although it could possibly be higher than these amounts the Group did not have the right to physically or operationally control in the future.
the smart meters and other parties took more than an insignificant Decommissioning costs amount of the output from the assets.
The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the producing LNG contracts lives of gas and oil fields is reviewed periodically and is based on The Group is active in the liquified natural gas LNG market, both reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
procuring long-term LNG supply arrangements, and transacting in Provision is made for the estimated cost of decommissioning at the shorter-term LNG cargoes.
Contracts to buy and sell LNG are not balance sheet date.
The payment dates of total expected future considered to meet the definition of a derivative as there is currently decommissioning costs are uncertain and dependent on the lives of no active market for LNG and accordingly, contracts are not capable the facilities, but are currently anticipated to be incurred until 2040. of being net settled.
As a result, they are accounted for on an The level of provision held is also sensitive to the discount rate used to accruals basis.
discount the estimated decommissioning costs.
The real discount rate b Key sources of estimation uncertainty used to discount the decommissioning liabilities at 31 December 2018 is unchanged at 1.2%.
A 1% change in this discount rate would Estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical change the decommissioning by approximately 200 million.
experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, including current and expected Significant judgements and estimates are also made about the costs economic conditions, and, in some cases, actuarial techniques.
of decommissioning nuclear power stations and the costs of waste Although these estimates and associated assumptions are based on management and spent fuel.
These estimates could impact the managements best knowledge of current events and circumstances, carrying value of our Nuclear investment.
Various arrangements and actual results may differ.
indemnities are in place with the Secretary of State with respect to these costs, as explained in note S2.
Revenue recognition -- - unread gas and electricity meters Revenue for energy supply activities includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end known as unread revenue.
Unread gas and electricity comprises both billed and unbilled revenue.
It is estimated through the billing systems, using historical consumption patterns, on a customerby-customer basis, taking into account weather patterns, load 134 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Goodwill 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key Goodwill does not generate independent cash flows and accordingly sources of estimation uncertainty is allocated at inception to specific CGUs or groups of CGUs for Gas and liquids reserves impairment testing purposes.
The recoverable amounts of these The volume of proven and probable 2P gas and liquids reserves is CGUs are derived from estimates of future cash flows as described in an estimate that affects the unit of production method of depreciating the asset classes above and hence the goodwill impairment tests are producing gas and liquids property, plant and equipment PP&E as also subject to these key estimates.
The results of these tests may well as being a significant estimate affecting decommissioning and then be verified by reference to external market valuation data.
The factors impacting gas and liquids Further details on the goodwill balances and the assumptions used in estimates, the process for estimating reserve quantities and reserve determining the recoverable amounts are provided in notes 7, 15 b recognition is described on page 220. and S2.
Sensitivity to the assumptions is also found in note 7 for The impact of a change in estimated 2P reserves is dealt with goodwill allocated to Exploration & Production CGUs.
prospectively by depreciating the remaining book value of producing Credit provisions for trade and other receivables assets over the expected future production.
If 2P reserves estimates The methodology for determining provisions for credit losses on trade are revised downwards, earnings could be affected by higher and other receivables and the level of such provision is set out in note depreciation expense or an immediate write-down impairment of 17.
Although the provisions recognised are considered appropriate, the assets book value.
the use of different assumptions or changes in economic conditions Determination of fair values -- - energy derivatives could lead to movements in the provisions and therefore impact the Fair values of energy derivatives are estimated by reference in part Group Income Statement.
to published price quotations in active markets and in part by using Pensions and other post-employment benefits valuation techniques.
More detail on the assumptions used in The cost of providing benefits under defined benefit schemes is determining fair valuations of energy derivatives is provided in note determined separately for each of the Groups schemes under the S6 and of the sensitivities to these assumptions in note S3.
projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains and Impairment of long-lived assets losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
The key The Group has several material long-lived assets, which are assessed assumptions used for the actuarial valuation are based on the Groups or tested for impairment at each reporting date in accordance with the best estimate of the variables that will determine the ultimate cost of Groups accounting policy as described in note 7.
The Group makes providing post-employment benefits.
The Group is permitted to judgements and estimates in considering whether the carrying recognise a pension scheme asset because it has an unconditional amounts of these assets or cash generating units CGUs are right to a refund on any winding up of the schemes or if gradual recoverable.
The key assets that are subjected to impairment tests settlement of liabilities over time is assumed.
Further details, including are upstream Exploration & Production gas and oil assets, Nuclear sensitivities to these assumptions, are provided in note 22. investment 20% economic interest accounted for as an investment Brexit in associate and goodwill, as detailed below.
The Group has considered the potential impact of a no-deal Brexit as Exploration & Production gas and oil assets noted in the Strategic Report on page 44.
Economists have The recoverable amount of the Groups gas and oil assets is suggested that a no-deal Brexit could lead to lower base interest rates determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be and higher inflation, following a likely weakening of sterling against generated by the assets over their lives taking into account those other currencies.
This would have an impact on the Groups pension assumptions that market participants would consider when assessing scheme discount rate assumptions if high quality corporate bond fair value.
The cash flows are derived from projected production yields follow base rates and could change forward energy prices profiles of each field, based predominantly on expected 2P reserves particularly in sterling terms.
The sensitivity of the Groups pension and take into account forward prices for gas and liquids over the schemes to a change in key assumptions is disclosed in note 22. relevant period.
Where forward market prices are not available, prices The sensitivity of a change in forward energy prices and the impact are determined based on internal model inputs.
this would have on impairment of the Groups assets is disclosed Exploration & Production gas and oil assets now include assets in note 7.
Macroeconomic impacts on existing trade receivable previously held as Storage facility assets within the segment formerly recoverability are expected to be immaterial but could have a greater known as Centrica Storage.
impact on future trade receivable recoverability.
Further details of the assumptions used in determining the recoverable amounts, the impairments and the impairment reversals booked during the year and sensitivity to the assumptions are provided in note 7.
Nuclear investment The recoverable amount of the Nuclear investment is based on the value of the existing UK nuclear fleet operated by EDF.
The existing fleet value is calculated by discounting pre-tax cash flows derived from the stations based on forecast power generation and power prices, whilst taking account of planned outages and the possibility of life extensions.
An assumption that the UK Capacity Market remains suspended until September 2019, with a prospective resumption thereafter, did not lead to an impairment.
Further details of the methodology and assumptions are provided in notes 7 and S2.
Note that the Nuclear investment was not considered to be an asset held for sale as at the reporting date as its disposal was not deemed to be highly probable within one year.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Segmental analysis The Groups operating segments are those used internally by management to run the business and make decisions.
The Groups operating segments are based on products and services.
The operating segments are also the Groups reportable segments.
The Groups results are discussed in the Business Review pages 20 to 27. a Segmental structure The types of products and services from which each reportable segment derived its revenues during the year are detailed below: Segment Description Centrica Consumer UK Home i The supply of gas and electricity to residential customers in the UK: and ii the installation, repair and maintenance of domestic central heating, plumbing and drains, gas appliances and kitchen appliances, including the provision of fixed-fee maintenance breakdown service and insurance contracts in the UK.
Ireland i The supply of gas, electricity and energy management solutions to residential, commercial and industrial customers in the Republic of Ireland: ii power generation in the Republic of Ireland: and iii the repair and maintenance of domestic central heating in the Republic of Ireland.
North America Home i The supply of gas and electricity to residential customers in North America: and ii the installation and maintenance of heating, ventilation and air conditioning HVAC equipment and water heaters and the provision of breakdown services, including the provision of fixed-fee maintenance breakdown service and insurance contracts in North America.
Connected Home The supply of new technologies and energy efficiency solutions to residential customers in all geographies in which the Group operates.
Centrica Business UK Business The supply of gas and electricity and provision of energy-related services to business customers in the UK.
North America Business i The supply of gas, electricity and energy-related services to business customers in North America: and ii procurement, trading and optimisation of energy in North America.
Distributed Energy & Power The supply of energy efficiency solutions, flexible generation and new technologies to commercial and industrial customers in all geographies in which the Group operates.
Flexible merchant generation is also provided to the UK system operator.
Energy Marketing & Trading Trading and optimisation of energy.
Central Power Generation Generation of power from the Spalding combined cycle gas turbine tolling contract and nuclear assets in the UK.
Exploration & Production Production and processing of gas and oil and the development of new fields, principally within Spirit Energy, to maintain reserves in the UK and Europe.
Following a reorganisation of the Groups reporting segments, the segment formerly known as Centrica Storage is now included as part of Exploration & Production.
See note 1 for further details.
136 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 4.
Segmental analysis b Revenue Gross segment revenue represents revenue generated from the sale of products and services to both third parties and to other reportable segments of the Group.
Group revenue reflects only the sale of products and services to third parties.
Sales between reportable segments are conducted on an arms length basis.
Group revenue from contracts with customers reflects the value of revenue arising from contracts with customers in the scope of IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
Revenue from other sources arises from contracts in the scope of other standards, for example IFRS 4: Insurance contracts and IFRS 9: Financial instruments.
Segmental revenues have also been restated to reflect the new operating structure of the Group, under which the segment formerly known as Centrica Storage is shown as part of Exploration & Production.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Segmental analysis The table below shows the Group revenue arising from contracts with customers, and therefore in the scope of IFRS 15, and revenue arising from contracts in the scope of other standards.
ii In 2018 Exploration & Production Group revenue includes negative amounts arising on the realisation of out-of-the-money commodity swap contracts that fall within the scope of IFRS 9.
The Group applies the practical expedient in paragraph 121 of IFRS 15 and therefore does not disclose information related to the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations on the basis that the Group recognises revenue from the satisfaction of the performance obligations within energy supply contracts in accordance with Paragraph B16, as described at note 1.
138 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 4.
Segmental analysis Disaggregation of revenue and non-current assets The key economic factors impacting the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are considered to be driven by the type and broad geographical location of the customer.
Therefore, revenue from contracts with customers has been disclosed by segment.
The only material exception to the above arises in the UK Home and North America Home segments, which include both energy supply revenue and services revenue.
The split of revenue in the scope of IFRS 15 between these material sources is shown below.
2018 2017 Energy Energy Energy Energy supply i services ii Total supply i services ii Total Year ended 31 December m m m m m m UK Home 6,746 624 7,370 6,902 599 7,501 North America Home 2,079 336 2,415 2,244 362 2,606 i Energy supply reflects revenue earned from the supply of gas and electricity to residential customers and excludes revenue earned from related services, such as meter installations.
ii Energy services revenue in the scope of IFRS 15 includes energy-related services detailed above and excludes contracts in the scope of IFRS 4.
The Group monitors and manages performance by reference to its operating segments and not solely on a geographical basis.
However, provided below is an analysis of revenue and certain non-current assets by geography.
Revenue Non-current assets based on location of customer based on location of assets i 2018 2017 restated ii 2018 2017 restated ii Year ended 31 December m m m m UK 14,000 13,506 5,814 5,849 Republic of Ireland 841 769 124 102 Germany 772 608 -- - -- - Norway 605 359 1,768 1,758 Rest of Europe 1,707 1,565 470 445 United States of America 10,290 9,591 1,774 1,663 Canada 1,170 1,411 360 378 Rest of the world 301 226 8 5 29,686 28,035 10,318 10,200 i Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, PP&E, interests in joint ventures and associates and non-financial assets within trade and other receivables, and contractrelated assets.
ii Comparatives have been restated on transition to IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Segmental analysis c Operating profit before and after taxation The measure of profit used by the Group is adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
This includes business performance results of equity-accounted interests before interest and taxation.
This note also details adjusted operating profit after taxation.
Both measures are reconciled to their statutory equivalents.
Adjusted operating profit loss Adjusted operating profit loss after taxation 2018 2017 restated i 2018 2017 restated i Year ended 31 December m m m m Centrica Consumer UK Home 668 819 543 674 Ireland 44 47 39 37 North America Home 123 114 92 69 Connected Home 85 95 71 71 750 885 603 709 Centrica Business UK Business 40 4 33 5 North America Business 81 71 60 44 Distributed Energy & Power 81 53 65 41 Energy Marketing & Trading 54 104 46 87 Central Power Generation 27 35 26 47 121 161 100 142 521 201 149 38 Exploration & Production Adjusted operating profit 1,392 1,247 852 889 Share of joint ventures associates interest and taxation -- - 7 Operating profit before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 1,392 1,240 Exceptional items note 7 183 884 Certain re-measurements included within gross profit note 7 200 153 Re-measurements of certain associates contracts net of taxation note 7 20 28 Share of associates exceptional operating cost note 7 2 --- Total exceptional items and certain re-measurements included in operating profit 405 759 Operating profit after exceptional items and certain re-measurements 987 481 2018 2017 restated i Year ended 31 December m m ii Adjusted operating profit after taxation 852 889 iii Impact of changes to corporate tax rates note 9 -- - 34 iv Corporate and other taxation, and interest net of taxation 194 218 Business performance profit for the year 658 705 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements net of taxation note 7 416 407 242 298 Statutory profit for the year i Prior year comparatives have been restated on transition to IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
2017 results have also been restated to reflect the change to the Groups operating structure, as a result of which the segment formerly known as Centrica Storage is now presented as part of Exploration & Production.
ii Segment adjusted operating profit after taxation includes profit of 29 million 2017: 7 million attributable to non-controlling interests.
iii The 2017 amount relates to a change to the US tax rate.
iv Includes joint ventures associates interest, net of associated taxation.
140 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 4.
Segmental analysis d Included within adjusted operating profit Presented below are certain items included within adjusted operating profit, including further details of impairments of property, plant and equipment and write-downs relating to exploration and evaluation assets.
Share of results of joint ventures and associates Depreciation and impairments of Amortisation, write-downs and before interest and taxation property, plant and equipment impairments of intangibles 2018 2017 restated i 2018 2017 restated i 2018 2017 restated i Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Centrica Consumer UK Home -- - -- - 45 51 103 108 Ireland -- - -- - 4 3 8 9 North America Home -- - -- - 13 13 41 50 Connected Home -- - -- - 2 1 16 11 -- - -- - 64 68 168 178 Centrica Business UK Business -- - -- - 2 2 13 12 North America Business -- - -- - 8 8 36 40 Distributed Energy & Power -- - -- - 9 8 13 8 Energy Marketing & Trading -- - -- - 2 1 11 10 Central Power Generation 3 58 -- - 10 -- - -- - 3 58 21 29 73 70 Exploration & Production -- - -- - 639 571 59 14 ii Other -- - -- - 12 5 22 9 3 58 736 673 322 271 i Segmental results have been restated to reflect the change to the Groups operating structure as a result of which the segment formerly known as Centrica Storage is now presented as part of Exploration & Production.
ii The Other segment includes corporate functions, subsequently recharged.
Impairments of property, plant and equipment During 2018, no impairments of property, plant and equipment were recognised in business performance.
During 2017, a 2 million impairment charge was recognised in the Distributed Energy & Power segment.
Considering its size and nature this impairment was recognised within business performance.
Write-downs and impairments of intangible assets During 2018, 54 million of write-downs 2017: 9 million relating to exploration and evaluation assets were recognised in the Exploration & Production segment.
All such current and prior year write-downs were recognised within business performance as they were not deemed exceptional in nature.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Segmental analysis e Capital expenditure Capital expenditure represents additions, other than assets acquired as part of business combinations, to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Capital expenditure has been reconciled to the related cash outflow.
Capital expenditure on property, Capital expenditure on intangible plant and equipment note 13 assets other than goodwill note 15 2018 2017 restated i 2018 2017 restated i Year ended 31 December m m m m Centrica Consumer UK Home 14 69 409 398 Ireland 21 2 12 8 North America Home 7 18 13 5 Connected Home 3 4 35 31 45 93 469 442 Centrica Business UK Business -- - 1 195 190 North America Business 8 6 288 290 Distributed Energy & Power 95 106 11 9 Energy Marketing & Trading 11 3 80 77 Central Power Generation -- - 28 20 -- - 114 144 594 566 Exploration & Production 367 434 118 40 ii Other 44 36 84 36 570 707 1,265 1,084 Capital expenditure Capitalised borrowing costs 14 10 4 -- - Inception of new finance leases and movements in payables and prepayments related to capital expenditure 18 87 55 1 Purchases of emissions allowances and renewable obligation certificates -- - --- 854 813 iii 574 610 352 272 Net cash outflow i Segmented results have been restated to reflect the change to the Groups operating structure as a result of which the segment formerly known as Centrica Storage is now presented as part of Exploration & Production.
iii The cash outflow relating to intangible assets includes 114 million 2017: 41 million relating to exploration and evaluation of gas and oil assets.
142 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 4.
Segmental analysis f Adjusted operating cash flow Adjusted operating cash flow is used by management to assess the cash generating abilities of each segment.
Adjusted operating cash flow is net cash flow from operating activities before payments relating to exceptional items, deficit payments to the UK defined benefit pension schemes, movements in variation margin and cash collateral that are included in net debt, but including dividends from joint ventures and associates.
This measure is reconciled to the net cash flow from operating activities.
2018 2017 restated i Year ended 31 December m m Centrica Consumer UK Home 805 928 Ireland 74 62 North America Home 187 154 Connected Home 47 121 1,019 1,023 Centrica Business UK Business 62 131 North America Business 278 87 Distributed Energy & Power 61 30 Energy Marketing & Trading 66 262 Central Power Generation 50 58 263 508 963 509 Exploration & Production Other -- - 29 Adjusted operating cash flow 2,245 2,069 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 22 58 UK pension deficit payments note 22 g 98 131 Payments relating to exceptional charges 248 176 Movements in margin and cash collateral included in net debt note 24 c 57 136 Net cash flow from operating activities 1,934 1,840 i Segmental results have been restated to reflect the change to the Groups operating structure as a result of which the segment formerly known as Centrica Storage is now presented as part of Exploration & Production.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 5.
Costs of operations This section details the types of costs the Group incurs and the number of employees in each of our operations.
a Analysis of costs by nature 2018 2017 Cost of Total Cost of Operating Total sales Operating costs sales costs costs restated i costs restated i Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Transportation, distribution and metering costs 4,813 -- - 4,813 5,039 --- 5,039 Commodity costs 17,305 -- - 17,305 15,663 --- 15,663 Depreciation, amortisation, impairments and write-downs 661 397 1,058 605 343 948 Employee costs 689 1,270 1,959 708 1,271 1,979 Other direct costs 1,965 1,054 3,019 1,983 1,102 3,085 Costs included within Group operating profit before credit 25,433 2,721 28,154 23,998 2,716 26,714 losses on financial assets Impairment of trade receivables note 17 -- - 150 150 --- 137 137 Recovery of previously fully impaired receivables -- - 7 7 --- 5 5 -- - 143 143 --- 132 132 Credit losses on financial assets Total costs included within Group operating profit before 25,433 2,864 28,297 23,998 2,848 26,846 exceptional items and certain re-measurements Exceptional items and certain re-measurements within Group operating profit note 7 200 183 383 153 884 731 Total costs within Group operating profit 25,633 3,047 28,680 23,845 3,732 27,577 i Comparatives have been restated on transition to IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
i b Employee costs 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Wages and salaries 1,579 1,591 Social security costs 151 159 Pension and other post-employment benefits costs 207 201 Share scheme costs note S4 43 47 1,980 1,998 Capitalised employee costs 21 19 Employee costs recognised in the Group Income Statement 1,959 1,979 i Details of Directors remuneration, share-based payments and pension entitlements in the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 103 form part of these Financial Statements.
Details of the remuneration of key management personnel are given in note S8.
c Average number of employees during the year 2018 2017 Number Number Year ended 31 December restated i UK Home 20,318 22,158 Ireland 219 211 North America Home 2,599 3,122 Connected Home 385 363 UK Business 1,874 2,065 North America Business 805 770 Distributed Energy & Power 1,090 947 Energy Marketing & Trading 470 433 Central Power Generation -- - 131 i Exploration & Production 913 1,054 Group Functions 3,107 3,647 31,780 34,901 i Comparatives have been restated to reflect the change to the Groups operating structure as a result of which the segment formerly known as Centrica Storage is now presented as part of Exploration & Production.
144 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 6.
Share of results of joint ventures and associates Share of results of joint ventures and associates represents the results of businesses where we exercise joint control or significant influence and generally have an equity holding of up to 50%.
a Share of results of joint ventures and associates The Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates for the year ended 31 December 2018 principally arises from its interest in Nuclear - Lake Acquisitions Limited, an associate, reported in the Central Power Generation segment.
2018 2017 Share of Share of exceptional exceptional Share of items and Share of results Share of items and Share of results business certain refor business certain refor performance measurements the year performance measurements the year Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Income 489 -- - 489 538 --- 538 Expenses before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 486 -- - 486 480 --- 480 Re-measurement of certain contracts -- - 21 21 --- 29 29 Exceptional items -- - 2 2 --- --- - -- Operating profit loss 3 23 20 58 29 29 Financing costs 3 -- - 3 1 -- - 1 Taxation on profit loss 3 1 4 6 1 5 Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures 3 22 19 51 28 23 and associates b Reconciliation of share of results of joint ventures and associates to share of adjusted results of joint ventures and associates 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Share of post-taxation results of joint ventures and associates 19 23 Certain re-measurements and exceptionals net of taxation 22 28 Financing costs 3 1 Taxation excluding taxation on certain re-measurements and exceptionals 3 6 Share of adjusted results of joint ventures and associates 3 58 Further information on the Groups investments in joint ventures and associates is provided in notes 14 and S10.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 7.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements Exceptional items are those items that, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence.
Items which may be considered exceptional in nature include disposals of businesses or significant assets, business restructurings, significant onerous contract charges and releases, significant debt repurchase costs and asset writedowns impairments and write-backs.
a Total exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m i Exceptional items Note 7 b 324 884 i Certain re-measurement losses gains Note 7 c 220 125 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements before taxation 544 759 i Exceptional items and certain re-measurements include re-measurement losses of 20 million 2017: 28 million and exceptional costs of 2 million 2017: nil arising from the Groups equity accounted interests in joint ventures and associates.
b Exceptional items 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m i Net write-back impairment of Exploration & Production assets 90 408 ii Impairment of UK gas storage assets -- - 270 iii Provision for onerous power procurement contract and impairment of UK power generation assets 62 -- - iv Guaranteed minimum pension equalisation past service cost 43 -- - v Restructuring costs 170 88 Business change costs -- - 56 Loss on disposal of Exploration & Production businesses and material assets -- - 134 Net gain on disposal of Central Power Generation businesses and assets -- - 72 Exceptional items included within Group operating profit 185 884 vi Debt repurchase costs included within financing costs 139 -- - 324 884 Exceptional items included within Group operating profit before taxation Net taxation on exceptional items note 9 89 408 235 476 Net exceptional items after taxation i In the Exploration & Production segment both impairments and write-backs of assets have been booked relating to the value of certain UK and Norwegian gas and oil fields.
Predominantly due to the impact of an increase in near-term liquid prices and a reduction in long-term price forecasts, together with forecast production profiles for specific fields, there has been a net writeback of 57 million post-tax 57 million.
Also included is the reduction of decommissioning provisions pre-tax 33 million, post-tax 23 million and the net write-back of a deferred tax asset associated with Exploration & Production investment allowance and PRT post-tax 18m related to assets previously impaired through exceptional items.
ii The segment formerly known as Centrica Storage is now presented as part of Exploration & Production.
iii Following the suspension of the UK Capacity Market in November 2018 and reductions in clean spark spread price forecasts, an onerous contract provision of 44 million post-tax 36 million has been reflected in relation to the Spalding tolling contract in the Central Power Generation segment and a pre-tax impairment charge of 18 million post-tax 15 million has been recognised in relation to gas-fired power station assets in the Distributed Energy & Power segment.
It has been assumed that the UK Capacity Market remains suspended until September 2019, with only prospective resumption thereafter.
See note S2 for further detail and impairment assumptions.
iv On 26 October 2018, the High Court of Justice of England and Wales issued a judgment requiring equality of treatment for men and women in relation to Guaranteed Minimum Pension benefits in contracted-out UK pension schemes for the period of 1978 to 1997.
As a result of this judgment, the scheme liabilities have been recalculated and a past service cost of 41 million post-tax 31 million has been reflected in the Income Statement in relation to Centrica Group schemes and 2 million post-tax 2 million in relation to Nuclear associate schemes.
v Following the announcement of phase 2 of the Groups cost efficiency programme, the Group has incurred restructuring costs principally relating to redundancy, data migration, digitisation of the customer journey, business closures and other transformational activity.
The post-tax impact was 136 million.
vi The Groups debt repurchase programme resulted in c. 1.1 billion of debt instruments being repurchased in advance of their maturity date.
Due to the premium paid above existing carrying values and related swap realisations and transaction fees, a one-off Income Statement financing cost of 139 million post-tax 113 million has been incurred.
146 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements c Certain re-measurements Certain re-measurements are the fair value movements on energy contracts entered into to meet the future needs of our customers or to sell the energy produced from our upstream assets.
These contracts are economically related to our upstream assets, capacity off-take contracts or downstream demand, which are typically not fair valued, and are therefore separately identified in the current period and reflected in business performance in future periods when the underlying transaction or asset impacts the Group Income Statement.
2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Certain re-measurements recognised in relation to energy contracts: Net losses arising on delivery of contracts 127 54 Net losses gains arising on market price movements and new contracts 73 207 Net re-measurements included within gross profit 200 153 Net losses arising on re-measurement of certain associates contracts net of taxation 20 28 Net re-measurements included within Group operating profit 220 125 i Taxation on certain re-measurements note 9 39 56 Net re-measurements after taxation 181 69 i 2017 includes a 37 million charge due to the effect of changes in US tax rates.
d Impairment accounting policy, process and sensitivities The Group tests the carrying amounts of goodwill, PP&E and intangible assets with the exception of exploration assets -- s - ee note S2 for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the recoverable amounts may be lower than their carrying amounts.
Interests in joint ventures and associates and exploration assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment and tested for impairment where such an indicator arises.
Where an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use VIU and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD.
At inception, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups CGUs or groups of CGUs that expect to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is expensed immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Any CGU impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU.
The impairment tests for the Exploration & Production gas and oil assets and CGUs including goodwill and the Distributed Energy & Power customer CGU as detailed in note S2, have used FVLCD to determine their recoverable amounts.
This methodology is deemed to be appropriate for these assets and CGUs as it is based on the post-tax cash flows arising from the underlying assets and is consistent with the approach taken by management to evaluate the economic value of the underlying assets.
In 2017, this methodology also applied to the Groups associate investment in Nuclear: however, in the current year a VIU calculation has been used to determine the recoverable amount of this investment.
Any future sales proceeds could be lower than this VIU.
VIU calculations have also been used to determine recoverable amounts for all other CGUs that include goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and UK power generation assets.
For Nuclear, headroom exists at the year end.
Were prices to fall by 10% over the asset lives an impairment of 365 million would ensue.
Further details of the approach and assumptions used in the VIU calculations are provided in note S2.
FVLCD discount rate and cash flow assumptions The price assumptions used to determine recoverable amounts for FVLCD calculations are based on the liquid market prices for the three-year period, 2019 to 2021.
The average price for the period 2019 to 2023 was 53p per therm for NBP, US$62 per barrel for Brent, and 51 per MWh for baseload power all in real terms.
The long-term price assumptions thereafter are derived using valuation techniques based on available external data and with reference to market comparators.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 7.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements Exploration & Production assets A net impairment write-back of 57 million 2017: write-off of 494 million, being a gross write-back of 127 million, offset by a gross write-off of 70 million, has been recorded within exceptional items for Exploration & Production assets alongside 33 million 2017: 86 million from reductions in decommissioning provisions.
For those assets subject to the net impairment write-backs, the associated recoverable amounts net of decommissioning costs of 820 million are categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
FVLCD is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated by the gas and oil production and development assets, net of associated selling costs, taking into account those assumptions that market participants would use in estimating fair value.
Post-tax cash flows are derived from projected production profiles of each field, taking into account forward prices for gas and liquids over the relevant period.
Where forward market prices are not available that is outside the active period for each commodity, prices are determined based on internal model inputs.
Note S6 provides additional detail on the active period of each of the commodity markets in which the Group operates.
The date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, production costs, the contractual duration of the licence area and the selling price of the gas and liquids produced.
As each field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the post-tax cash flows for each field are computed using individual economic models.
Post-tax cash flows used in the FVLCD calculation for the first five years are based on the Groups Board-approved business plans and strategic shape assumptions and, thereafter, are based on long-term production and cash flow forecasts, which management believes reflects the assumptions of a market participant.
The future post-tax cash flows are discounted using a post-tax nominal discount rate of 9.5% 2017: 8.5% to determine the FVLCD.
The discount rate and inflation rate used in the FVLCD calculation are determined in the same manner as the rates used in the VIU calculations described in note S2, with the exception of the adjustment required to determine an equivalent pre-tax discount rate.
The valuation of Exploration & Production assets and goodwill are particularly sensitive to the price assumptions made in the impairment calculations.
To illustrate this, the price assumptions for gas and oil have been varied by --10%.
C - hanges in price generate different production profiles and in some cases the date that an asset ceases production.
This has been considered in the sensitivity analysis.
Otherwise, all other operating costs, life of field capital expenditure and abandonment expenditure assumptions remain unchanged.
For Exploration & Production assets, an increase in gas and oil prices of 10% would potentially reverse 128 million 2017: 224 million of previous post-tax impairment charges of the exploration and production assets.
A reduction of 10% would potentially give rise to further post-tax impairments of the underlying exploration and production assets of 97 million 2017: 160 million but no post-tax impairment of goodwill 2017: nil due to adequate headroom.
Net finance cost Financing costs mainly comprise interest on bonds and bank debt, the results of hedging activities used to manage foreign exchange and interest rate movements on the Groups borrowings, and notional interest arising on discounting of decommissioning provisions and pensions.
An element of financing cost is capitalised on qualifying projects.
Investment income predominantly includes interest received on short-term investments in money market funds, bank deposits, and government bonds.
2018 2017 Financing Investment Financing Investment costs income Total costs income Total Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Cost of servicing net debt: Interest income -- - 20 20 --- 19 19 i Interest cost on bonds, bank loans and overdrafts 250 -- - 250 289 -- - 289 Interest cost on finance leases 12 -- - 12 14 -- - 14 262 20 242 303 19 284 ii Net gains on revaluation -- - 7 7 --- 1 1 Notional interest arising from discounting 56 -- - 56 71 -- - 71 318 27 291 374 20 354 iii Capitalised borrowing costs 18 -- - 18 10 --1 - 0 300 27 273 364 20 344 Financing cost income before exceptional items i Exceptional items note 7 b 139 -- - 139 -- - --- - -- Cost income 439 27 412 364 20 344 i During 2018 the Group decreased its outstanding bond debt principal by 1,000 million and US$681 million, including 600 million and US$681 million as part of the debt repurchase programme.
As a result of this programme an exceptional financing cost of 139 million 2017: nil was recognised.
See notes 7 b and 24 d for further details.
ii Includes gains and losses on fair value hedges, movements in fair value of other derivatives primarily used to hedge foreign exchange exposure associated with inter-company loans, and foreign currency gains and losses on the translation of inter-company loans.
iii Borrowing costs have been capitalised using an average rate of 4.75% 2017: 4.55%.
Capitalised interest has attracted tax deductions totalling 3 million 2017: 8 million, with deferred tax liabilities being set up for the same amounts.
148 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9.
Taxation The taxation note details the different tax charges and rates, including current and deferred tax arising in the Group.
The current tax charge is the tax payable on this years taxable profits together with amendments in respect of tax provisions made in earlier years.
This tax charge excludes the Groups share of taxation on the results of joint ventures and associates.
Deferred tax represents the tax on differences between the accounting carrying values of assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
These differences are temporary and are expected to unwind in the future.
a Analysis of tax charge 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional items items Business and certain Results for Business and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Current tax UK corporation tax 44 49 5 50 20 70 UK petroleum revenue tax 50 -- - 50 63 --6- 3 Non-UK tax 278 9 269 35 7 28 i Adjustments in respect of prior years -- UK - 17 2 19 29 31 2 i Adjustments in respect of prior years -- no - n-UK 16 1 15 10 2 12 Total current tax 271 61 210 3 46 49 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences -- U - K 70 51 19 44 169 125 UK petroleum revenue tax 1 14 15 6 207 201 Origination and reversal of temporary differences -- no - n-UK 120 32 88 255 23 278 Change in tax rates -- - -- - -- - 34 37 3 i Adjustments in respect of prior years -- UK - 11 3 14 57 90 147 i Adjustments in respect of prior years -- no - n-UK 12 1 13 26 8 18 190 67 123 188 398 210 Total deferred tax ii Total taxation on profit loss 461 128 333 191 352 161 i The net adjustments in respect of prior years include uncertain tax provision charges of 13 million 2017: 49 million credit and in 2017, deferred tax adjustments of 35 million charge credit relating to the treatment of certain derivatives.
ii Total taxation on profit loss excludes taxation on the Groups share of profits of joint ventures and associates.
UK tax rates The Group carries out the majority of its activities in the UK.
Most activities in the UK are subject to the standard rate for UK corporation tax, which for 2018 was 19% 2017: 19.25%.
Upstream gas and oil production activities are taxed at a UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2017: 30% plus a supplementary charge of 10% 2017: 10% to give an overall rate of 40% 2017: 40%.
In addition, certain upstream assets in the UK are under the petroleum revenue tax PRT regime, which has a current rate of 0% 2017: 0%, giving an overall effective rate of 40% 2017: 40%.
The UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 17% from 1 April 2020.
At 31 December 2018, the relevant UK deferred tax assets and liabilities included in these consolidated Group Financial Statements were based on the reduced rate having regard to their reversal profiles.
Non-UK tax rates Norwegian upstream profits are taxed at the standard rate of 23% 2017: 24% plus a special tax of 55% 2017: 54% resulting in an aggregate tax rate of 78% 2017: 78%.
Profits earned in the US were taxed at a Federal rate of 21% 2017: 35% together with state taxes at various rates dependent on the state.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rate prevailing in those respective jurisdictions, with rates ranging from 12.5% in the Republic of Ireland to 50% in the Netherlands.
The tax charges were not material in such jurisdictions.
Prior year adjustments reflect changes made to estimates or to judgements when further information becomes available.
Movements in deferred tax liabilities and assets are disclosed in note 16.
Tax on items taken directly to equity is disclosed in note S4.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Taxation b Factors affecting the tax charge The Group is expected to continue carrying out the majority of its business activities in the UK and accordingly considers the standard UK rate to be the appropriate reference rate.
The differences between the total taxation shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit loss before taxation are as follows: 2018 2017 Exceptional items Business Exceptional items Results for Business and certain Results for performance and certain the year performance re-measurements the year restated i re-measurements restated i Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Profit loss before taxation 1,119 544 575 896 759 137 Less: share of losses profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 3 22 19 51 28 23 Group profit loss before taxation 1,116 522 594 845 731 114 Tax on profit at standard UK corporation tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.25% 212 99 113 163 141 22 Effects of: Depreciation impairment on non-qualifying assets including write-backs 34 3 37 51 3 54 Other non-allowable non-taxable items 1 2 3 4 5 9 Higher rates applicable to upstream profits losses 269 6 263 149 96 53 Upstream investment incentives 47 33 80 43 --4- 3 UK petroleum revenue tax 25 7 18 34 124 158 ii Non-UK tax rates 27 4 23 35 14 49 Movement in uncertain tax provisions 12 -- - 12 34 --3- 4 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax assets 5 1 6 2 4 6 Differences in deferred tax reversal rates 2 4 2 7 5 2 Changes to tax rates -- - -- - -- - 34 37 3 iii Adjustments in respect of prior years 15 1 16 53 49 102 Taxation on profit loss 461 128 333 191 352 161 Less: movement in deferred tax 190 67 123 188 398 210 Total current tax 271 61 210 3 46 49 i Comparatives have been restated on transition to IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
ii Excludes additional non-UK tax applicable to upstream profits, notably in Norway.
iii Excludes a charge included in movement in uncertain tax provisions that relates to prior years of 13 million 2017: 49 million credit.
The Group is subject to taxation in a number of jurisdictions.
The complexity of applicable rules may result in legitimate differences of interpretation between the Group and taxing authorities or between different taxing authorities especially where an economic judgement or valuation is involved.
Resolution of these differences typically takes many years.
The uncertain tax provisions represent multiple layers of estimation for different time periods and different jurisdictions.
The principal element relates to transfer pricing challenges in jurisdictions outside the UK.
While the Group applies the arms length principle to all intra-group transactions, taking OECD guidance into account, taxing authorities may take different views.
The outcome of resolving any disputes is not predictable: the provisions represent managements assessment of the most likely outcome of each issue.
The assessment is reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
c Factors that may affect future tax charges The Groups effective tax rates are impacted by changes to the mix of activities and production across the territories in which it operates.
Effective tax rates may also fluctuate where profits and losses cannot be offset for tax purposes, such as in the UK where there is generally no offset between upstream gas and oil and downstream results.
Losses realised in one territory cannot be offset against profits in another.
The Groups UK profits earned away from gas and oil production will benefit from reduced rates of corporation tax:17% from 1 April 2020.
Profits from gas and oil production in the UK continue to be taxed at rates above the UK statutory rate 40% versus 19%.
PRT is now set at 0% but may still give rise to historic refunds from the carry-back of excess reliefs for example, from decommissioning.
Income earned in territories outside the UK, particularly in Norway, is generally subject to higher effective rates of tax than the current UK statutory rate.
The Groups US profits are subject to a Federal rate of 21% plus applicable state taxes.
Globally, tax reform has significant potential to change tax charges, particularly in relation to the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS project, which has widespread support.
Based on current proposals, the Group does not expect its tax position to be impacted materially.
150 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9.
Taxation Local tax laws and rates are subject to change, which may have a significant impact on the Groups future tax charges.
In the medium term, the Groups effective tax rate is expected to remain above the UK statutory rate, reflecting higher rates applicable to profits earned outside the UK.
The mix of upstream downstream activities across regimes continues to be influential on the effective tax rate.
d Relationship between current tax charge and taxes paid 2018 2017 UK Non-UK Total UK Non-UK Total Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Current tax credit charge: Corporation tax 24 284 260 72 40 112 Petroleum revenue tax 50 -- - 50 63 --- 63 74 284 210 9 40 49 Taxes paid refunded : Corporation tax 18 99 117 72 190 118 Petroleum revenue tax 56 -- - 56 16 --- 16 38 99 61 88 190 102 Differences between current tax charged and taxes paid arose principally due to the following factors: Corporation tax payments are generally made by instalment, based on estimated taxable profits, or the prior periods profits.
Payments are made on account and the final liability is settled as the tax return is filed.
Fluctuations in profits from year to year, one-off items and mark-tomarket movements within the year may therefore give rise to divergence between the charge for the year and the taxes paid.
In certain jurisdictions advance tax payments are required based on estimated tax liabilities which can result in overpayments.
These are included as tax assets, to be refunded in a subsequent period 2017 and 2018 saw net refunds in the UK : and PRT refunds are based on results in the preceding, six monthly, PRT period, therefore PRT cash movements will reflect refunds on a sixmonth delay.
Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per share EPS is the amount of profit or loss attributable to each share.
Basic EPS is the amount of profit or loss for the year divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted EPS includes the impact of outstanding share options.
Basic earnings per ordinary share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year of 183 million 2017: 328 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 5,623 million 2017: 5,537 million.
The number of shares excludes 40 million ordinary shares 2017: 53 million, being the weighted average number of the Companys own shares held in the employee share trust and treasury shares purchased by the Group as part of the share repurchase programme.
The Directors believe that the presentation of adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, being the basic earnings per ordinary share adjusted for certain re-measurements and exceptional items assists with understanding the underlying performance of the Group, as explained in note 2.
In addition to basic and adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share, information is presented for diluted and adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share.
Under this presentation the weighted average number of shares used as the denominator is adjusted for potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
Weighted average number of shares 2018 2017 Million Million Year ended 31 December shares shares Weighted average number of shares -- basi - c 5,623 5,537 i Dilutive impact of share-based payment schemes 48 42 Weighted average number of shares -- dil - uted 5,671 5,579 i The dilutive impact of share-based payment schemes is included in the calculation of diluted EPS, unless it has the effect of increasing the profit or decreasing the loss attributable to each share.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 10.
Earnings per ordinary share Basic to adjusted basic earnings per share reconciliation 2018 2017 restated i Pence per Pence per Year ended 31 December m ordinary share m ordinary share Earnings -- ba - sic 183 3.3 328 5.9 ii Net exceptional items after taxation notes 2 and 7 266 4.7 435 7.9 ii Certain re-measurement losses gains after taxation notes 2 and 7 182 3.2 70 1.3 Earnings -- ad - justed basic 631 11.2 693 12.5 Earnings -- - diluted 183 3.2 328 5.9 Earnings -- ad - justed diluted 631 11.1 693 12.4 i 2017 comparatives have been restated on adoption of IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
ii Net exceptional loss after taxation of 235 million 2017: 476 million is increased by 31 million 2017: reduced by 41 million for the purpose of calculating adjusted basic and adjusted diluted EPS.
The adjustment reflects the share of net exceptional items attributable to non-controlling interests.
Similarly, certain re-measurement losses of 181 million 2017: 69 million gains are increased by 1 million 2017: 1 million to reflect the share of net re-measurement losses attributable to non-controlling interests.
Dividends Dividends represent the return of profits to shareholders and are paid twice a year, in June and November.
Dividends are paid as an amount per ordinary share held.
The Group retains part of the profits generated to meet future investment plans or to fund share repurchase programmes.
2018 2017 Pence per Date of Pence per Date of m share payment m share payment i Prior year final dividend 470 8.40 28 Jun 2018 459 8.40 29 Jun 2017 Interim dividend 203 3.60 22 Nov 2018 202 3.60 30 Nov 2017 673 661 i Included within the prior year final dividend are forfeited dividends of 1 million 2017: 2 million older than 12 years that were written back in accordance with Group policy.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.40 pence per ordinary share totalling 479 million for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May 2019 and, subject to approval, will be paid on 27 June 2019 to those shareholders registered on 10 May 2019.
The Company offers a scrip dividend alternative to its shareholders.
47 million of the 470 million prior year final dividend was in the form of ordinary shares to shareholders opting in to the scrip dividend alternative.
The market value per share at the date of payment was 1.46 per share resulting in the issue of 32 million new shares and 45 million of share premium.
Similarly, 78 million of the 203 million interim dividend was taken as a scrip dividend.
The market value per share at the date of payment was 1.46 resulting in the issue of 53 million new shares and 74 million of share premium.
The Group has sufficient distributable reserves to pay dividends to its ultimate shareholders.
Distributable reserves are calculated on an individual legal entity basis and the ultimate parent company, Centrica plc, currently has adequate levels of realised profits within its retained earnings to support dividend payments.
Refer to the Centrica plc Company Balance Sheet on page 210.
At 31 December 2018, Centrica plcs company-only distributable reserves were c. 2.7 billion.
On an annual basis, the distributable reserve levels of the Groups subsidiary undertakings are reviewed and dividends paid up to Centrica plc to replenish its reserves.
152 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 12.
Acquisitions and disposals This section details acquisitions and disposals made by the Group.
a 2018 business combinations and asset acquisitions On 28 February 2018 the Group acquired NJR Retail Services Company for cash consideration of US$24 million 17 million of which US$13 million 10 million was deferred.
The provisional fair value of assets and liabilities acquired was US$18 million 13 million resulting in goodwill of US$6 million 4 million.
On 1 July 2018 the Group acquired North American mid-continent retail operations from BP Canada Energy Marketing Corporation constituting a business for cash consideration of US$39 million 31 million.
The provisional fair value of assets and liabilities acquired was US$18 million 15 million resulting in goodwill of US$21 million 16 million.
On 27 November 2018, the Group acquired T. A. Kaiser Heating and Air Inc. for cash consideration of US$19 million 15 million.
The provisional fair value of assets and liabilities acquired was US$19 million 15 million.
On 31 December 2018 the Group acquired certain retail power operations from Source Power & Gas Business LLC.
As this transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition, cash consideration of US$26 million 21 million was allocated to the assets acquired.
18 million of deferred consideration was paid in respect of the Bord Gis acquisition.
Acquisition-related costs have been charged to operating costs before exceptional items and credit losses on financial assets in the Group Income Statement for an aggregated amount of 1 million.
Pro forma information The pro forma consolidated results of the Group, assuming the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, would not be materially different.
b 2017 business combinations -- mea - surement period adjustments During the year, there have been no material updates to the fair value of assets and liabilities recognised for businesses acquired in 2017.
In 2017 the Groups existing Exploration & Production business was combined with Bayerngas Norge AS with the Group owning 69% of the newly formed business, Spirit Energy Limited.
During 2018, goodwill in respect of this acquisition increased by 4 million and other assets by 18 million with corresponding adjustments to other equity 8 million and non-controlling interests 14 million.
Goodwill in respect of other prior year acquisitions increased by 2 million.
c Disposals All disposals undertaken by the Group during the year were immaterial, both individually and in aggregate.
None of these disposals are material enough to be shown as discontinued operations on the face of the Group Income Statement as they do not represent a separate major line of business or material geographical area of operations.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 13.
Property, plant and equipment PP&E includes significant investment in power stations and gas and liquid production assets.
Once operational, all assets are depreciated over their useful lives.
ii North Sea Exploration & Production assets, with a net book value of zero, were transferred to held for sale and disposed of during the year.
b Assets in the course of construction included in above carrying amounts 2018 2017 31 December m m Plant, equipment and vehicles 45 49 Gas production 605 652 Power generation 99 100 154 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13.
Property, plant and equipment c Assets held under finance leases and to which title was restricted included in above carrying amounts 2018 2017 Plant, Gas Plant, Gas equipment Power production equipment Power production and vehicles generation and storage Total and vehicles generation and storage Total m m m m m m m m Cost at 1 January 132 469 415 1,016 80 469 415 964 Additions 36 -- - -- - 36 53 -- - - -5 - 3 Disposals 5 -- - -- - 5 1 -- - - - - 1 Cost at 31 December 163 469 415 1,047 132 469 415 1,016 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 23 469 399 891 9 469 398 876 Charge for the year 24 -- - 15 39 14 -- 1 - 15 Disposals 2 -- - -- - 2 --- -- - - -- - -- Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 45 469 414 928 23 469 399 891 118 -- - 1 119 109 -- 16 - 125 NBV at 31 December 14.
Interests in joint ventures and associates Investments in joint ventures and associates represent businesses where we exercise joint control or significant influence and generally have an equity holding of up to 50%.
These include the investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited, which owns the existing EDF UK nuclear power station fleet.
a Interests in joint ventures and associates 2018 2017 Investments in Investments in joint ventures joint ventures and associates and associates m m 1 January 1,699 1,697 Additions 3 6 Disposals -- - 4 Share of loss profit for the year 19 23 Share of other comprehensive loss income 1 43 i Impairment -- - 4 ii Dividends 22 60 Exchange adjustments 1 2 31 December 1,661 1,699 i In 2017 this includes an impairment of shareholder loans of 1 million, subsequently disposed.
ii In 2017 a non-cash 2 million tax credit was received in lieu of payment of a dividend.
b Share of joint ventures and associates assets and liabilities 2018 2017 Associates Nuclear Other Total Total 31 December m m m m Share of non-current assets 3,800 11 3,811 3,689 Share of current assets 647 13 660 701 4,447 24 4,471 4,390 Share of current liabilities 134 5 139 140 Share of non-current liabilities 2,082 -- - 2,082 1,962 2,216 5 2,221 2,102 Cumulative impairment 586 3 589 589 Interests in joint ventures and associates 1,645 16 1,661 1,699 Net cash included in share of net assets 83 -- - 83 84 Further information on the Groups investments in joint ventures and associates is provided in notes 6 and S10.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 155 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Other intangible assets and goodwill The Group Balance Sheet contains significant intangible assets.
Goodwill, customer relationships and brands usually arise when we acquire a business.
Goodwill is attributable to enhanced geographical presence, cost savings, synergies, growth opportunities, the assembled workforce and also arises from items such as deferred tax.
Goodwill is not amortised but is assessed for recoverability each year.
The Group uses European Union Allowances EUAs and Renewable Obligation Certificates Renewable Energy Certificates ROCs RECs to satisfy its related obligations.
Upstream exploration and evaluation expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset until development of the asset commences, at which point it is transferred to PP&E or is deemed not commercially viable and is written down.
ii The remaining amortisation period of material application software assets, which had a carrying value of 260 million 2017: 206 million, is between five and eight years.
iii Includes assets acquired in business combinations in the year, and measurement period adjustments made to assets acquired in prior year business combinations.
iv During 2017 included within disposals retirements and surrenders are 226 million of gross assets that have been retired and have a net book value of zero.
v Transfers to disposal groups held for sale in 2017 are in respect of the Canadian exploration and production business and the Langage and Humber CCGT power stations.
vi Amortisation of 268 million 2017: 261 million has been recognised in operating costs before exceptional items.
In 2017 an amortisation charge of 1 million was recognised in cost of sales before exceptional items.
156 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15.
Other intangible assets and goodwill b Carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to CGUs Goodwill acquired through business combinations, and indefinite-lived intangible assets, have been allocated for impairment testing purposes to individual CGUs or groups of CGUs, each representing the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset is monitored for internal management purposes.
2018 2017 Carrying Carrying amount of amount of  lived Carrying lived Principal acquisitions to which amount of intangible amount of intangible goodwill and intangibles with indefinite goodwill assets i Total goodwill assets i Total 31 December useful lives relate m m m m m m CGUs Centrica Consumer: UK Home AlertMe Dyno-Rod 63 57 120 63 57 120 Ireland Bord Gis Energy 16 -- - 16 16 --1 - 6 North America Home Direct Energy ATCO CPL WTU FCP Bounce Residential Services Group Clockwork Astrum Solar 1,061 14 1,075 1,029 14 1,043 Connected Home AlertMe FlowGem 31 -- - 31 31 --3 - 1 Centrica Business: UK Business Enron Direct Electricity Direct 181 -- - 181 181 --- 181 North America Business Direct Energy ATCO Strategic Energy FCP HEM 567 -- - 567 524 --- 524 Distributed Energy & Power ENER-G Panoramic Power REstore 174 -- - 174 169 --- 169 Energy Marketing & Trading Neas Energy 151 -- - 151 150 --- 150 Exploration & Production: UK Norway Netherlands Newfield Heimdal Venture Bayerngas 492 -- - 492 487 --- 487 2,736 71 2,807 2,650 71 2,721 i The indefinite-lived assets mainly relate to the Mr Sparky and Benjamin Franklin brands acquired as part of the Clockwork business combination, and the Dyno-Rod brand.
Further details regarding assumptions used in the impairment tests of CGUs with goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets allocated to them are provided in note S2.
Sensitivities to these assumptions for goodwill allocated to the Exploration & Production CGU are provided in note 7 d. Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 157 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 16.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment to provide for tax that is expected to arise in the future as a result of differences in the accounting and tax bases of assets and liabilities.
The principal deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group relate to capital investments, decommissioning assets and provisions, tax losses, fair value movements on derivative financial instruments, PRT and pensions.
Retirement Accelerated tax Net Other timing benefit depreciation decommissioning Losses carried differences Marked to Net deferred obligation and Total restated corporation tax i forward ii restated iii market positions PRT iv other provisions iii m m m m m m m m iii 1 January 2017 restated 1,045 901303 41 141 15 118110 Credit charge to income -- ch - ange in tax rates 14 --- - -- 20 37 -- - - - - 3 Credit charge to income -- - other 130 57 235 172 100 121 18 213 Charge credit to equity -- - - -- - - - 1 1 -- 38 - 38 Acquisition disposal of businesses 150 28221 7 ---- - - - -9 - 2 Transfer of deferred tax liabilities to disposal groups held for sale 127 --- - -- 97 --- - - - - -3 - 0 Exchange and other adjustments 7 8 46 38 3 -- - - -- 10 31 December 2017 931 864 335 8 80 136 62 394 Charge credit to income 115 16 12 29 40 9 14 123 Credit charge to equity -- - - -- - -1 - 2 -- 135 - 136 Acquisition disposal of businesses 5 --- - -- - -- - -- - - - - -- 5 Exchange and other adjustments 5 --- - -2 - 4 1 -- - - -- 18 31 December 2018 1,056 880 323 4 43 127 87 148 i Net decommissioning includes deferred tax assets of 1,215 million 2017: 1,233 million in respect of decommissioning provisions.
ii The losses arise principally from accelerated allowances for upstream investment expenditure, for which equivalent deferred tax liabilities are included under accelerated tax depreciation.
iii Comparatives have been restated on transition to IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
iv The deferred PRT amounts include the effect of deferred corporation tax as PRT is chargeable to corporation tax.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The following is an analysis of the gross deferred tax balances and associated offsetting balances for financial reporting purposes: 2018 2017 Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets restated i 31 December m m m m Gross deferred tax balances 2,029 1,881 2,231 1,837 Offsetting deferred tax balances 1,497 1,497 1,663 1,663 Net deferred tax balances after offsetting for financial reporting purposes 532 384 568 174 i Comparatives have been restated on transition to IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
Deferred tax assets arise principally on decommissioning provisions, trading losses carried forward, retirement benefit obligations and marked to market positions.
Forecasts indicate that there will be suitable taxable profits to utilise those deferred tax assets not offset against deferred tax liabilities.
Specific legislative provisions applicable to gas and oil production provide assurance that deferred tax assets relating to decommissioning costs and certain trading losses will be utilised.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had certain unrecognised deductible temporary differences of 3,165 million 2017: 3,403 million, of which 2,294 million 2017: 2,494 million related to carried forward tax losses available for utilisation against future taxable profits.
Some 59 million 2017: 98 million of these losses will expire within one to five years.
All other temporary differences have no expiry date.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences, due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
At the balance sheet date, no taxable temporary differences existed in respect of the Groups overseas investments 2017: nil.
158 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17.
Trade and other receivables, and contract-related assets Trade and other receivables include accrued income, and are amounts owed by our customers for goods we have delivered or services we have provided.
These balances are valued net of provisions for bad debt.
Other receivables include payments made in advance to our suppliers.
Contract-related assets are balances arising as a result of the Groups contracts with customers in the scope of IFRS 15.
2018 2017 restated i Current Non-current Current Non-current 31 December m m m m Financial assets: ii Trade receivables 2,043 3 2,073 --- Contract assets 33 4 11 --- Unbilled downstream energy income 1,542 -- - 1,585 --- Other accrued energy income 1,323 -- - 690 --- Other accrued income 116 -- - 118 --- Cash collateral posted note 24 c 446 -- - 253 --- Other receivables including loans 259 35 225 54 5,762 42 4,955 54 Less: provision for credit losses 569 -- - 599 --- 5,193 42 4,356 54 Non-financial assets: prepayments and other receivables 342 63 283 33 Non-financial assets: assets recognised from the costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer 8 14 30 10 5,543 119 4,669 97 i Comparatives have been restated on transition to IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
ii Includes amounts arising from the Groups IFRS 15 contracts with customers of 1,913 million 2017: 1,938 million.
Trade and other receivables include financial assets representing the contractual right to receive cash or other financial assets from residential customers, business customers and treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties as follows: 2018 2017 Current Non-current Current Non-current 31 December m m m m Financial assets by class: Residential customers 1,700 8 1,650 6 Business customers 2,321 28 2,238 48 Treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties 1,741 6 1,067 --- 5,762 42 4,955 54 Less: provision for credit losses 569 -- - 599 --- 5,193 42 4,356 54 Receivables from residential and business customers are generally considered to be credit impaired when the payment is past the contractual due date.
Contractual due dates range from falling due upon receipt to falling due in 30 days from receipt.
The table below shows the change in gross receivables between credit impaired balances those that are past due and receivables that are not yet due and therefore not considered to be credit impaired.
Gross financial assets within trade and other receivables 2018 2017 31 December m m Balances that are not past due 4,418 3,566 Balances that are past due 1,344 1,389 5,762 4,955 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 159 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 17.
Trade and other receivables, and contract-related assets The IFRS 9 impairment model is applicable to the Groups financial assets including trade receivables, contract assets and other financial assets as described in note S3.
As the majority of the relevant balances are trade receivables and contract assets to which the simplified model applies, this disclosure focuses on these balances.
The provision for credit losses for trade receivables, contract assets and finance lease receivables is based on an expected credit loss model that calculates the expected loss applicable to the receivable balance over its lifetime.
Credit losses on receivables due from treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties are not significant see note S3 for further analysis of this determination.
For residential and business customers default rates are calculated initially by operating segment considering historical loss experience and applied to trade receivables within a provision matrix.
The matrix approach allows application of different default rates to different groups of customers with similar characteristics.
These groups will be determined by a number of factors including: the nature of the customer, the payment method selected and where relevant, the sector in which they operate.
The characteristics used to determine the groupings of receivables are the factors that have the greatest impact on the likelihood of default.
The rate of default increases once the balance is 30 days past due and subsequently in 30-day increments.
Receivables from residential and business customers are generally considered to be credit impaired when the payment is past the contractual due date.
The Group applies different definitions of default for different groups of customers, ranging from 60 days past the due date to six to twelve months from the issuance of a final bill.
Receivables are generally written off only once a period of time has elapsed since the final bill.
The impairment charge in trade receivables is stated net of credits for the release of specific provisions made in previous years, which are no longer required.
These relate primarily to residential customers in the UK.
Movements in the provision for credit losses by class are as follows: 2018 2017 Treasury, Treasury, trading trading and energy and energy Residential Business procurement Residential Business procurement customers customers counterparties Total customers customers counterparties Total m m m m m m m m 1 January 347 248 4 599 395 296 6 697 Net impairment of credit impaired trade receivables 79 68 1 148 102 36 --- 138 Net impairment of trade receivables not considered to be credit impaired 6 4 -- - 2 --- 1 --1 - i ii iii Total impairment of trade receivables 85 64 1 150 102 35 --- 137 iv Receivables written off 89901 180 150 83 2 235 31 December 343 222 4 569 347 248 4 599 i Includes 135 million 2017: 134 million of credit losses related to trade receivables resulting from contracts in the scope of IFRS 15. ii All loss allowances reflect the lifetime expected credit losses on trade receivables, contract assets and finance lease receivables.
iii Excludes recovery of previously fully impaired receivables of 7 million 2017: 5 million.
iv Materially all write offs relate to trade receivables where enforcement activity is ongoing.
Enforcement activity continues in respect of balances that have been written off unless there are specific known circumstances such as bankruptcy that render further action futile.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The most significant assumption included within the expected credit loss provisioning model that gives rise to estimation uncertainty is that future performance will be reflective of past performance and there will be no significant change in the payment profile or recovery rates within each identified group of receivables.
To address this risk, the Group reviews and updates default rates, by group, on a regular basis to ensure they incorporate the most up to date assumptions along with forward-looking information where available and relevant.
The Group also considers regulatory changes and customer segment specific factors that may have an impact, now or in the future, on recoverability of the balance.
While forward-looking information is usually considered to be immaterial, the exception to this could be the forecast occurrence of a significant one-off event.
The Group does not believe that Brexit will have a material impact on the outstanding receivables balance.
This approach is considered appropriate as the Groups outstanding trade receivable balance is made up of a high volume of individually low value balances relative to the total outstanding debt.
As a result, impairment losses on trade receivables are more sensitive to macroeconomic events, rather than customer specific future events, which are unlikely to have a material impact.
The Groups receivables are predominantly short term and the rate of default increases significantly when a balance is more than 90 days past due.
In order to test the sensitivity to changes in the debt profile, the Group has considered the impact of further credit deterioration of these balances and determined that if all balances were to remain unpaid for a further 30 days, the additional credit loss recognisable by the Group would be up to 20 million.
160 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 18.
Inventories Inventories represent assets that we intend to use in future periods, either by selling the asset itself for example gas in storage or by using it to provide a service to a customer.
2018 2017 31 December m m i Gas and oil in storage and transportation 210 191 Other raw materials and consumables 169 151 Finished goods and goods for resale 80 67 459 409 i Includes oil inventory and gas in storage held at fair value of 76 million 2017: 26 million.
The Group consumed 768 million of inventories 2017: 555 million during the year.
Write-downs amounting to 8 million 2017: 7 million were charged to the Group Income Statement in the year.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage the risk arising from fluctuations in the value of certain assets or liabilities, associated with treasury management, energy sales and procurement.
These derivatives are held at fair value and are predominantly unrealised positions, expected to unwind in future periods.
The Group also uses derivatives for proprietary energy trading purposes.
Purpose Accounting treatment Proprietary energy trading Carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the Groups results for the year, before exceptional items and i and treasury management certain re-measurements.
Energy procurement Carried at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in certain re-measurements.
optimisation i With the exception of certain energy derivatives related to cross-border transportation and capacity contracts.
In cases where a derivative qualifies for hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
Note S5 provides further detail on the Groups hedge accounting.
The carrying values of derivative financial instruments by product type for accounting purposes are as follows: 2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 31 December m m m m Derivative financial instruments -- he - ld for trading under IFRS 9: Energy derivatives -- - for procurement optimisation 567 704 1,020 868 Energy derivatives -- - for proprietary trading 837 787 48 70 Interest rate derivatives -- - 26 -- - 28 Foreign exchange derivatives 30 38 32 32 Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships: i Interest rate derivatives 59 10 128 6 i Foreign exchange derivatives 185 1 162 16 Total derivative financial instruments 1,678 1,566 1,390 1,020 Included within: Derivative financial instruments -- - current 1,141 1,136 927 733 Derivative financial instruments -- - non-current 537 430 463 287 i Included within these categories are 233 million 2017: 266 million of derivatives used to hedge movements in net debt.
See note 24 c. Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 161 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 19.
Derivative financial instruments The contracts included within energy derivatives are subject to a wide range of detailed specific terms, but comprise the following general components, analysed on a net carrying value basis: 2018 2017 31 December m m Short-term forward market purchases and sales of gas and electricity: UK and Europe 236 93 North America 65 123 Structured gas purchase contracts 100 153 Structured gas sales contracts -- - 2 Structured power purchase contracts 2 16 Other 14 35 87 130 Net total 2018 2017 Net gains losses on derivative financial instruments due to re-measurement Income Income Statement Equity Statement Equity 31 December m m m m Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value: Derivative financial instruments -- he - ld for trading proprietary trading 71 -- - 29 --- Derivative financial instruments -- he - ld for trading 215 -- - 173 --- Energy contracts designated at fair value through profit or loss -- - -- - 17 --- Derivative financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships 60 37 39 1 204 37 146 1 162 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 20.
Trade and other payables, and contract liabilities Trade and other payables include accruals and are principally amounts we owe to our suppliers.
Financial deferred income represents monies received from customers in advance of the delivery of goods or services that may be returned to the customer if future delivery does not occur.
For example, downstream customers with a credit balance may request repayment of the outstanding amount in cash, rather than taking delivery of commodity.
By contrast, contract liabilities arise when the Group receives consideration from a customer in advance of performance, and has a non-financial liability to deliver future goods or services in return.
2018 2017 Current Current Non-current restated i Non-current 31 December m m m m Financial liabilities: Trade payables 578 -- - 607 --- Deferred income 287 -- - 359 --- Capital payables 166 124 175 110 Other payables 560 21 393 14 Accruals: Commodity costs 2,475 -- - 1,776 --- Transportation, distribution and metering costs 384 -- - 378 --- Operating and other accruals 825 -- - 858 --- 3,684 -- - 3,012 --- 5,275 145 4,546 124 Non-financial liabilities: Other payables and accruals 774 14 694 17 Contract liabilities 54 22 43 18 Deferred income 104 10 135 8 6,207 191 5,418 167 i Prior year comparatives have been restated on adoption of IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
Financial liabilities within current trade and other payables 2018 2017 31 December m m Less than 90 days 5,005 4,304 90 to 182 days 165 139 183 to 365 days 105 103 5,275 4,546 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 163 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 21.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised when an obligation exists that can be reliably measured, but where there is uncertainty over the timing and or amount of the payment.
The main provisions relate to decommissioning costs for upstream assets we own, or have owned, which require restoration or remediation.
Further provisions relate to sale and purchase contracts we have entered into that are now onerous, restructuring costs, and legal and regulatory matters.
Unused and 1 January Acquisitions and Charged in reversed in Transfers Exchange 31 December 2018 disposals the year Notional interest the year Utilised i ii adjustments 2018 Current m m m m m m m m m Restructuring costs 29 -- 118 - --- 1 105 19 --- 22 iii Decommissioning costs 162 -- -- -- - -- - -- 133 165 --- 194 Sale purchase contract iv loss provision 44 4 29 --- 8 54 24 1 40 v Other 29 -- 39 - --- 5 34 20 --- 49 264 4 186 -- - 14 326 190 1 305 Unused and Revisions 1 January Acquisitions and Charged in reversed in and Transfers Exchange 31 December 2018 disposals the year Notional interest the year additions ii adjustments 2018 Non-current m m m m m m m m m Restructuring costs 9 -- - - -- - -- - -- - -2 - --- 7 iii Decommissioning costs 2,523 -- 4 - 33 44 46 165 4 2,401 Sale purchase contract iv loss provision 77 6 18 --4- --- 24 2 75 v Other 75 6 7 --1- --- 20 2 57 2,684 -- - 29 33 49 46 211 8 2,540 Included within the above liabilities are the following financial liabilities: Financial liabilities 2018 2017 Current Non-current Current Non-current 31 December m m m m Restructuring costs 22 7 29 9 85 129 70 141 Provisions other than restructuring costs 107 136 99 150 i Utilisation of provisions includes 145 million 2017: 100 million of payments relating to exceptional charges.
The remainder of the total 248 million 2017: 176 million of payments relating to exceptional charges shown in the Group Cash Flow Statement was paid directly during the year, without first giving rise to a provision.
ii Includes transfers to from other balance sheet accounts including post-retirement benefit obligations.
iii Provision has been made for the estimated net present cost of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of their useful lives.
The estimate has been based on 2P reserves, price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
The payment dates of decommissioning costs are dependent on the lives of the facilities, but utilisation of the provision is expected to occur until 2040. iv The sale purchase contract loss provision relates mainly to the Spalding tolling contract and North America Business wind farm power purchase agreements.
The majority of the provision is expected to be utilised by 2020. v Other provisions have been made for dilapidations, insurance, legal and various other claims.
164 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 22.
Post-retirement benefits The Group manages a number of final salary and career average defined benefit pension schemes.
It also has defined contribution schemes.
The majority of these schemes are in the UK.
a Summary of main post-retirement benefit schemes Number of Total active members membership as at as at 31 December 31 December Name of scheme Type of benefit Status Country 2018 2018 Centrica Engineers Defined benefit final salary pension Closed to new members in 2006 UK 3,037 8,538 Pension Scheme Defined benefit career average pension Open to service engineers only UK 3,330 5,429 Centrica Pension Plan Defined benefit final salary pension Closed to new members in 2003 UK 2,756 8,613 Centrica Pension Scheme Defined benefit final salary pension Closed to new members in 2003 UK 7 10,501 Defined benefit career average pension Closed to new members in 2008 UK 1,263 4,118 Defined contribution pension Open to new members UK 13,897 20,544 Bord Gis Energy Company Defined benefit final salary pension Closed to new members in 2014 Republic 128 173 Defined Benefit Pension Scheme of Ireland Bord Gis Energy Company Defined contribution pension Open to new members Republic 221 286 Defined Contribution Pension Plan of Ireland Direct Energy Marketing Limited Defined benefit final salary pension Closed to new members in 2004 Canada 7 374 Pension Plan Direct Energy Marketing Limited Post-retirement benefits Closed to new members in 2012 Canada 8 257 The Centrica Engineers Pension Scheme CEPS, Centrica Pension Plan CPP and Centrica Pension Scheme CPS form the significant majority of the Groups defined benefit obligation and are referred to below as the Registered Pension Schemes.
The other schemes are individually, and in aggregate, immaterial.
Independent valuations The Registered Pension Schemes are subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the rate of employer contributions, which together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and proceeds from the schemes assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes.
The latest full actuarial valuations were carried out at the following dates: the Registered Pension Schemes at 31 March 2015, the Bord Gis Energy Company Defined Benefit Pension Scheme at 1 January 2017 and the Direct Energy Marketing Limited Pension Plan at 1 January 2018.
These have been updated to 31 December 2018 for the purpose of meeting the requirements of IAS 19.
Investments held in all schemes have been valued for this purpose at market value.
Governance The Registered Pension Schemes are managed by trustee companies whose boards consist of both company-nominated and membernominated Directors.
Each scheme holds units in the Centrica Combined Common Investment Fund CCCIF, which holds the majority of the combined assets of the Registered Pension Schemes.
The board of the CCCIF is currently comprised of nine directors: three independent directors, three directors appointed by Centrica plc including the Chairman and one director appointed by each of the three Registered Pension Schemes.
Under the terms of the Pensions Act 2004, Centrica plc and each trustee board must agree the funding rate for its defined benefit pension scheme and a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme-specific statutory funding objective.
This approach was first adopted for the triennial valuations completed at 31 March 2006, and has been reflected in subsequent valuations, including the 31 March 2015 valuations.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 165 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 22.
Post-retirement benefits b Risks The Registered Pension Schemes expose the Group to the following risks: Asset volatility The pension liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to AA corporate bond yields.
If the growth in plan assets is lower than this, this will create an actuarial loss within other equity.
The CCCIF is responsible for managing the assets of each scheme in line with the liability-related investment objectives which were updated in 2017 that have been set by the trustees of the schemes, and invests in a diversified portfolio of assets.
The schemes are relatively young in nature the schemes opened in 1997 on the formation of Centrica plc on demerger from BG plc formerly British Gas plc, and only took on liabilities in respect of active employees.
Therefore, the CCCIF holds a significant proportion of return-seeking assets: such assets are generally expected to provide a higher return than corporate bonds, but result in greater exposure to volatility and risk in the short term.
The investment objectives are to achieve a long-term target return of 4% per annum in nominal terms, subject to a maximum level of modelled downside risk exposure.
Interest rate A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the net present value of the pension liabilities.
The relative immaturity of the schemes means that the duration of the liabilities is longer than average for typical UK pension schemes, resulting in a relatively higher exposure to interest rate risk.
Inflation Pensions in deferment, pensions in payment and pensions accrued under the career average schemes increase in line with the Retail Prices Index RPI and the Consumer Prices Index CPI.
Therefore, scheme liabilities will increase if inflation is higher than assumed, although in some cases caps are in place to limit the impact of significant movements in inflation.
Furthermore, a pension increase exchange PIE option implemented in 2015 is available to future retirees, which gives the choice to receive a higher initial pension in return for giving up certain future increases linked to RPI, again limiting the impact of significant movements in inflation.
Longevity The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of scheme members and their surviving spouses: therefore increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the pension liabilities.
The relative immaturity of the schemes means that there is comparatively little observable mortality data to assess the rates of mortality experienced by the schemes, and means that the schemes liabilities will be paid over a long period of time, making it particularly difficult to predict the life expectancy of the current membership.
Furthermore, pension payments are subject to inflationary increases, resulting in a higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
Salary Pension liabilities are calculated by reference to the future salaries of active members, and hence salary rises in excess of assumed increases will increase scheme liabilities.
During 2011, changes were introduced to the final salary sections of CEPS and CPP such that annual increases in pensionable pay are capped to 2%, resulting in a reduction in salary risk.
During 2016, a salary cap on pensionable pay for the CPS career average and CPP schemes was implemented.
Both the 2011 and 2016 changes result in a reduction in salary risk.
Foreign exchange Certain assets held by the CCCIF are denominated in foreign currencies, and hence their values are subject to exchange rate risk.
The CCCIF has long-term hedging policies in place to manage interest rate, inflation and foreign exchange risks.
The table below analyses the total liabilities of the Registered Pension Schemes, calculated in accordance with accounting principles, by type of liability, as at 31 December 2018.
Total liabilities of the Registered Pension Schemes 2018 31 December % Actives -- - final salary -- cap - ped 28 Actives -- - final salary -- unca - pped and crystallised benefits 5 Actives -- ca - reer average 7 Deferred pensioners 30 Pensioners 30 100 166 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 22.
Post-retirement benefits c Accounting assumptions The accounting assumptions for the Registered Pension Schemes have been given below: Major assumptions used for the actuarial valuation 2018 2017 31 December % % Rate of increase in employee earnings: Subject to 2% cap 1.7 1.7 Other not subject to cap 2.2 2.3 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.1 3.1 Rate of increase in deferred pensions: In line with CPI capped at 2.5% 2.0 2.0 In line with RPI 3.1 3.1 Discount rate 3.0 2.6 The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date have been based on a combination of standard actuarial mortality tables, scheme experience and other relevant data, and include an allowance for future improvements in mortality.
The longevity assumptions for members in normal health are as follows: Life expectancy at age 65 for a member 2018 2017 Male Female Male Female 31 December Years Years Years Years Currently aged 65 22.9 24.5 23.0 24.6 Currently aged 45 24.3 26.0 24.5 26.1 The other demographic assumptions have been set having regard to the latest trends in scheme experience and other relevant data.
The assumptions are reviewed and updated as necessary as part of the periodic actuarial valuations of the pension schemes.
For the Registered Pension Schemes, marginal adjustments to the assumptions used to calculate the pension liability, or significant swings in bond yields or stock markets, can have a large impact in absolute terms on the net assets of the Group.
Reasonably possible changes as at 31 December to one of the actuarial assumptions would have affected the scheme liabilities as set out below: Impact of changing material assumptions 2018 2017 Indicative effect Indicative effect Increase on scheme Increase on scheme decrease in liabilities decrease in liabilities 31 December assumption % assumption % Rate of increase in employee earnings subject to 2% cap 0.25% -0 0.25% --0- Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 0.25% -5 0.25% --5- Discount rate 0.25% - 6 0.25% -- 6- Inflation assumption 0.25% -5 0.25% --5- Longevity assumption 1 year -3 1 year --3- The indicative effects on scheme liabilities have been calculated by changing each assumption in isolation and assessing the impact on the liabilities.
For the reasonably possible change in the inflation assumption, it has been assumed that a change to the inflation assumption would lead to corresponding changes in the assumed rates of increase in uncapped pensionable pay, pensions in payment and deferred pensions.
The remaining disclosures in this note cover all of the Groups defined benefit schemes.
d Amounts included in the Group Balance Sheet 2018 2017 31 December m m Fair value of plan assets 8,487 8,451 Present value of defined benefit obligation 8,566 9,337 Net liability recognised in the Group Balance Sheet 79 886 Pension liability presented in the Group Balance Sheet as: Retirement benefit assets 223 -- - Retirement benefit liabilities 302 886 The Trust Deed and Rules for the Registered Pension Schemes provide the Group with a right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of scheme liabilities.
No asset ceiling restrictions have been applied in the consolidated Financial Statements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 167 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 22.
Post-retirement benefits e Movements in the year 2018 2017 Pension Pension Pension Pension liabilities assets liabilities assets m m m m 1 January 9,337 8,451 9,075 7,938 Items included in the Group Income Statement: Current service cost 120 -- - 125 --- i Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements 29 -- - 31 --- Total current service cost 149 -- - 156 --- ii Past service cost 41 -- - 7 --- Interest expense income 239 218 245 215 Items included in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: Returns on plan assets, excluding interest income -- - 145 -- - 309 Actuarial gain from changes to demographic assumptions 42 -- - 70 --- Actuarial gain loss from changes in financial assumptions 912 -- - 120 --- Actuarial loss from experience adjustments 17 -- - 37 --- Exchange adjustments 1 -- - 1--- Items included in the Group Cash Flow Statement: Employer contributions -- - 216 -- - 236 i Contributions by employer in respect of employee salary sacrifice arrangements -- - 29 ---31 Other movements: Plan participants contributions 2 2 2 2 Benefits paid from schemes 277 277 287 287 iii Acquisition of businesses -- - -- - 8 7 iii Scheme closures 8 7 ------ Transfers from provisions for other liabilities and charges 21 -- - 45 --- 31 December 8,566 8,487 9,337 8,451 i A salary sacrifice arrangement was introduced on 1 April 2013 for pension scheme members.
The contributions paid via the salary sacrifice arrangement have been treated as employer contributions and included within current service cost, with a corresponding reduction in salary costs.
ii A 41 million past service cost was recognised in the year as a result of GMP equalisation.
A 7 million charge was recognised in 2017 as a result of the curtailment for certain employees within the Registered Pension Schemes upon the combination of the Groups Exploration & Production business with Bayerngas Norge.
iii As part of the combination of the Groups Exploration & Production business with Bayerngas Norge in 2017, a Norwegian defined benefit pension scheme was acquired.
The scheme was then closed in 2018.
In addition to current service cost on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, the Group also charged 58 million 2017: 45 million to operating profit in respect of defined contribution pension schemes.
This included contributions of 17 million 2017: 13 million paid via a salary sacrifice arrangement.
f Pension scheme assets The market values of plan assets were: 2018 2017 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total 31 December m m m m m m Equities 1,991 351 2,342 2,121 303 2,424 Corporate bonds 1,118 -- - 1,118 1,303 --- 1,303 High-yield debt 595 1,360 1,955 280 1,451 1,731 Liability matching assets 1,581 994 2,575 1,663 952 2,615 Property -- - 395 395 --- 374 374 Cash pending investment 102 -- - 102 4 --4 - 5,387 3,100 8,487 5,371 3,080 8,451 Unquoted assets are valued by the fund managers with reference to the expected cash flows associated with the assets.
These valuations are reviewed annually as part of the CCCIF audit.
Included within equities are 1 million of ordinary shares of Centrica plc 2017: nil via pooled funds that include a benchmark allocation to UK equities.
Included within corporate bonds are nil 2017: 1 million of bonds issued by Centrica plc held within pooled funds over which the CCCIF has no ability to direct investment decisions.
Apart from the investment in the Scottish Limited Partnerships which form part of the asset-backed contribution arrangements described in note 22 g, no direct investments are made in securities issued by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries or property leased to or owned by Centrica plc or any of its subsidiaries.
168 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 22.
Post-retirement benefits Included within the Group Balance Sheet within non-current securities are 91 million 2017: 94 million of investments, held in trust on behalf of the Group, as security in respect of the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme.
Of the pension scheme liabilities above, 63 million 2017: 63 million relate to this scheme.
More information on the Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme is included in the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 103. g Pension scheme contributions The Group estimates that it will pay 91 million of ordinary employer contributions during 2019, at an average rate of 24% of pensionable pay, together with 27 million of contributions paid via a salary sacrifice arrangement.
At 31 March 2015 the date of the latest full agreed actuarial valuations the weighted average duration of the liabilities of the Registered Pension Schemes was 24 years.
At the 31 March 2015 triennial review of the UK Registered Pension Schemes the Technical Provisions deficit was 1,203 million.
The Group is committed to additional annual cash contributions to fund the pension deficit and this funding is provided through asset-backed contribution arrangements.
The contribution during the year was 98 million, with the remaining annual contributions being 98 million per annum for 2019-2022, 81 million per annum for 2023-2026 and 76 million per annum for 2027-2030, through these arrangements.
A 995 million security package over certain of the Groups assets, enforceable in the unlikely event the Group is unable to meet its obligations, is also in place.
The next UK Registered Pension Schemes triennial review, based on the position at 31 March 2018, is in progress.
The Group is likely to remain in a Technical Provisions deficit position in excess of the agreed contributions noted above.
Whilst negotiations are ongoing, a separate 75 million cash deficit contribution was made on 2 January 2019.
Deficit payments are also being made in respect of the Direct Energy Marketing Limited Pension Plan in Canada.
1 million was paid in 2018 with further annual contributions of 1 million to be paid in 2019.
Commitments and contingencies a Commitments Commitments are not held on the Groups Balance Sheet as these are executory arrangements, and relate to amounts that we are contractually required to pay in the future as long as the other party meets its contractual obligations.
The Group procures commodities through a mixture of production from gas fields, power stations, wind farms and procurement contracts.
Procurement contracts include short-term forward market purchases of gas and electricity at fixed and floating prices.
They also include gas and electricity contracts indexed to market prices and long-term gas contracts with non-gas indexation.
The commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts disclosed below are stated net of amounts receivable under commodity sales contracts, where there is a right of offset with the counterparty.
The total volume of gas to be taken under certain long-term structured contracts depends on a number of factors, including the actual reserves of gas that are eventually determined to be extractable on an economic basis.
The commitments disclosed below are based on the expected minimum quantities of gas and other commodities that the Group is contracted to buy at estimated future prices.
The commitments in this note differ in scope and in basis from the maturity analysis of energy derivatives disclosed in note S3.
Whilst the commitments in relation to commodity purchase contracts include all purchase contracts, only certain procurement and sales contracts are within the scope of IFRS 9 and included in note S3.
In addition, the volumes used in calculating the maturity analysis in note S3 are estimated using valuation techniques, rather than being based on minimum contractual quantities.
The Groups 20-year agreement with Cheniere to purchase 89bcf per annum of LNG volumes for export from the Sabine Pass liquefaction plant in the US commits the Group to capacity payments of 3.8 billion included in LNG capacity below between 2019 and 2039.
It also allows the Group to make up to 6.9 billion of commodity purchases based on market gas prices and foreign exchange rates as at the balance sheet date.
The target date for first commercial delivery is estimated by the terminal operator as September 2019.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 169 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 23.
Commitments and contingencies 2018 2017 31 December m m Commitments in relation to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment: Development of Norwegian Nova oil and gas field 143 -- - Development of Norwegian Oda gas and oil field 38 55 Development of Danish Hejre gas and oil field -- - 219 Development of Norwegian Maria gas and oil field -- - 31 Other Exploration & Production capital expenditure 195 162 Development of Kings Lynn A power station 11 50 Other capital expenditure 5 29 Commitments in relation to the acquisition of intangible assets: Renewable obligation certificates 4,326 4,261 Other intangible assets 592 372 Other commitments: Commodity purchase contracts 48,055 42,324 LNG capacity 4,371 4,401 Transportation capacity 1,013 997 i Other long-term commitments 669 577 Operating lease commitments: Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases 343 388 i Other long-term commitments include amounts in respect of executory contracts, power station tolling fees and the smart meter roll-out programme.
At 31 December the maturity analyses for commodity purchase contract commitments and the total minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases were: Commodity purchase contract Total minimum lease payments under commitments non-cancellable operating leases 2018 2017 2018 2017 31 December billion billion m m 1 year 13.9 11.2 99 120 1-- -2 years 7.9 6.0 64 77 2-- -3 years 5.2 4.4 50 46 3-- -4 years 4.0 3.7 36 38 4-- -5 years 4.0 3.6 27 30 5 years 13.1 13.4 67 77 48.1 42.3 343 388 Operating lease payments recognised as an expense in the year were as follows: 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Minimum lease payments net of sub-lease receipts 80 90 i Contingent rents -- ren - ewables 59 73 i The Group has entered into long-term arrangements with renewable providers to purchase physical power, renewable obligation certificates and levy exemption certificates from renewable sources.
Payments made under these contracts are contingent upon actual production and so there is no commitment to a minimum lease payment 2017: nil.
Payments made for physical power are charged to the Group Income Statement as incurred and disclosed as contingent rents.
170 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23.
Commitments and contingencies b Guarantees and indemnities This section discloses any guarantees and indemnities that the Group has given, where we may have to provide security in the future against existing and future obligations that will remain for a specific period.
In connection with the Groups energy trading, transportation and upstream activities, certain Group companies have entered into contracts under which they may be required to prepay, provide credit support or provide other collateral in the event of a significant deterioration in creditworthiness.
The extent of credit support is contingent upon the balance owing to the third party at the point of deterioration.
The Group has provided a number of securities in respect of decommissioning liabilities associated with field developments owned, or partly owned, by Spirit Energy and its subsidiaries.
These securities are provided to fellow partners and previous owners of these fields, who may be liable for Spirit Energys share of the decommissioning costs, in the event of default by the Group.
The most significant securities relate to the Morecambe and Statfjord fields.
As at 31 December 2018, 612 million 2017: 694 million of letters of credit and on demand payment bonds have been issued in respect of decommissioning obligations included in the Group Balance Sheet.
As additional assets are developed or acquired, additional securities may be provided.
c Contingent liabilities Bacton entry capacity charging methodology Under proposals for a new UK gas transmission charging methodology currently being considered by Ofgem, it is possible that the Exploration & Production segment may be subject to top-up charges in the future for entry capacity purchased for the now defunct Bacton storage project.
Managements best estimate of the value of this contingent liability is 20 million.
The Group has no other material contingent liabilities.
Sources of finance a Capital structure The Group seeks to maintain an efficient capital structure with a balance of net debt and equity as shown in the table below: 2017 2018 restated i 31 December m m Net debt 2,656 2,596 Shareholders equity 3,145 2,703 Capital 5,801 5,299 i Comparatives have been restated on transition to IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers.
Please see note 1 for further details.
Debt levels are restricted to limit the risk of financial distress and, in particular, to maintain a strong credit profile.
The Groups credit standing is important for several reasons: to maintain a low cost of debt, limit collateral requirements in energy trading, hedging and decommissioning security arrangements, and to ensure the Group is an attractive counterparty to energy producers and long-term customers.
The Group monitors its current and projected capital position on a regular basis, considering a medium-term view of at least three years, and different stress case scenarios, including the impact of changes in the Groups credit ratings and significant movements in commodity prices.
A number of financial ratios are monitored, including those used by the credit rating agencies.
The level of debt that can be raised by the Group is restricted by the Companys Articles of Association.
Borrowings is limited to the higher of 10 billion and a gearing ratio of three times adjusted capital and reserves.
The Group funds its long-term debt requirements through issuing bonds in the capital markets and taking bank debt.
Short-term debt requirements are met primarily through issuance of commercial paper.
The Group maintains substantial committed facilities and uses these to provide liquidity for general corporate purposes, including short-term business requirements and back-up for commercial paper.
British Gas Insurance Limited BGIL is required under PRA regulations to hold a minimum capital amount and has complied with this requirement in 2018 and 2017.
BGILs capital management policy and plan is subject to review and approval by the BGIL board.
Reporting processes provide relevant and timely capital information to management and the board.
A medium-term capital management plan forms part of BGILs planning and forecasting process, embedded into approved timelines, management reviews and board approvals.
In the period from 2015-2018, the Group has reduced its overall levels of net debt, in accordance with its strategic objectives and financial framework.
The Group regularly reviews its cash and gross debt positions and considers opportunities for early retirement of debt in order to maintain a more efficient balance sheet.
b Liquidity risk management and going concern The Group has a number of treasury and risk policies to monitor and manage liquidity risk.
Cash forecasts identifying the Groups liquidity requirements are produced regularly and are stress-tested for different scenarios, including, but not limited to, reasonably possible increases or decreases in commodity prices and the potential cash implications of a credit rating downgrade.
The Group seeks to ensure that sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12-month period to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
It is the Groups policy to maintain committed facilities and or available surplus cash resources of at least 1,200 million, raise at least 75% of its net debt excluding non-recourse debt in the long-term debt market and to maintain an average term to maturity in the recourse long-term debt portfolio greater than five years.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 171 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 24.
Sources of finance At 31 December 2018, the Group had undrawn committed credit facilities of 3,879 million 2017: 3,530 million and 1,079 million 2017: 2,664 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents.
174% 2017: 238% of the Groups net debt has been raised in the long-term debt market and the average term to maturity of the long-term debt portfolio was 11.1 years 2017: 10.8 years.
The Groups liquidity is impacted by the cash posted or received under margin and collateral agreements.
The terms and conditions of these agreements depend on the counterparty and the specific details of the transaction.
Cash is generally returned to the Group or by the Group within two days of trade settlement.
Refer to note 24 c for the movement in cash posted or received as collateral.
The level of undrawn committed bank facilities and available cash resources has enabled the Directors to conclude that the Group has sufficient headroom to continue as a going concern.
The statement of going concern is included in the Governance section -- - Other Statutory Information, on page 112. c Net debt summary Net debt predominantly includes capital market borrowings offset by cash, cash posted or received as collateral, securities and certain hedging financial instruments used to manage interest rate and foreign exchange movements on borrowings.
Presented in the derivatives and current and non-current borrowings, finance leases and interest accruals columns shown below are the assets and liabilities that give rise to financing cash flows.
Current and non-current Cash and borrowings, cash equivalents, Cash posted Current and finance leases net of bank received as non-current and interest overdrafts i ii collateral iii securities iv accruals Derivatives Net debt m m m m m m 1 January 2017 1,960 496 232 6,452 291 3,473 Net cash outflow from purchase of securities 2 --2 - -- - - -- - -- Cash outflow from payment of capital element of finance leases 45 --- - -- 45 --- - -- Cash outflow from repayment of borrowings 226 --- - -- 226 --- - -- Remaining cash inflow and movement in cash posted received under v margin and collateral agreements 1,393 136 ---- - - - -- 1,257 Revaluation --- - -- 4 36 23 63 Financing interest paid 318 --- - -- 322 48 44 Increase in interest payable and amortisation of borrowings --- - -- - -- 328 --- 328 Acquisition of businesses --- - -- - -- 66 --- 66 New finance lease agreements --- - -- - -- 53 --- 53 Exchange adjustments 25 24 2 99 --4 - 8 31 December 2017 2,737 336 236 6,171 266 2,596 Net cash outflow from purchase of securities 76 --7 - 6 -- - - -- -- - Cash outflow from payment of capital element of finance leases 56 --- - -- 56 --- -- - Cash outflow from repayment of borrowings 1,617 --- - -- 1,516 38 139 Remaining cash inflow and movement in cash posted received under v margin and collateral agreements 441 57 ---- - - - -- 384 Revaluation --- - -- 6 39 25 58 Financing interest paid 305 --- - -- 288 20 37 Increase in interest payable and amortisation of borrowings --- - -- - -- 262 --- 262 New finance lease agreements --- - -- - -- 36 --- 36 Exchange adjustments 4 11 1 44 -- - 28 31 December 2018 1,128 290 307 4,614 233 2,656 i Cash and cash equivalents includes 189 million 2017: 200 million of restricted cash.
This includes cash totalling 100 million 2017: 65 million within the Spirit Energy business that is not restricted by regulation but is managed by its own treasury department.
ii Cash and cash equivalents are net of 140 million bank overdrafts 2017: 127 million.
This is offset by a corresponding gross up in current borrowings.
iii Collateral is posted or received to support energy trading and procurement activities.
It is posted when contracts with marginable counterparties are out of the money and is received when contracts are in the money.
These positions reverse when contracts are settled and the collateral is returned.
Of the net cash collateral posted as at 31 December 2018, 157 million 2017: 29 million is included within trade and other payables, 446 million 2017: 253 million within trade and other receivables, and 1 million 2017: 112 million has been settled against net derivative financial liabilities.
The items to which the cash posted or received as collateral under margin and collateral agreements relate are not included within net debt.
iv Securities balances include 126 million 2017: 128 million of index-linked gilts which the Group uses for short-term liquidity management purposes.
Securities balances also include 68 million 2017: 74 million debt instruments and 45 million 2017: 34 million equity instruments, all measured at fair value, as described in note 1.
In addition to the above, securities include 68 million 2017: nil of deposits with maturities greater than three months, which are measured at amortised cost.
The Group has posted 26 million 2017: 29 million of noncurrent securities as collateral against an index-linked swap maturing on 16 April 2020. v Including non-cash movements relating to the reversal of collateral amounts posted when the related derivative contract settles where these daily margin amounts posted reduce the ultimate amount payable receivable on settlement of the related derivative contract.
172 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 24.
ii Bonds or portions of bonds maturing in 2022, 2023, 2026, 2029, 2033 and 2075 have been designated in a fair value hedge relationship.
See note S5 for details of hedge relationships.
iii 50 million of zero coupon notes have an accrual yield of 4.200%, which will result in a 114 million repayment on maturity.
iv The Group has the right to repay at par on 10 April 2025 and every interest payment date thereafter.
v The Group has the right to repay at par on 10 April 2021 and every interest payment date thereafter.
vi Contingent rents paid under finance lease obligations during the year were 40 million 2017: 39 million.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 173 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Share capital Ordinary share capital represents the total number of shares issued which are publicly traded.
We also disclose the number of own and treasury shares the Company holds, which the Company has bought itself, principally as part of the share repurchase programme.
Allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company 2018 2017 31 December m m 14 5,727,912,880 ordinary shares of 6 pence each 2017: 5,642,344,165 354 348 81 During the year 86 million new ordinary shares were issued at an average price of 146.3 pence for the scrip dividends, total value of 125 million.
The closing price of one Centrica ordinary share on 31 December 2018 was 134.9 pence 2017: 137.3 pence.
Centrica employee share ownership trusts purchase Centrica ordinary shares from the open market and receive treasury shares to satisfy future obligations of certain employee share schemes.
The movements in own and treasury shares during the year are shown below: Own shares Treasury shares 2018 2017 2018 2017 million million million million shares shares shares shares 1 January 5.3 9.0 42.1 50.8 Shares purchased 8.2 5.7 -- - -- - Treasury shares placed into trust 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.2 Shares released to employees on vesting 8.8 10.6 9.7 7.5 i 31 December 5.8 5.3 31.3 42.1 i The closing balance in the treasury and own share reserve of own shares was 10 million 2017: 12 million and treasury shares was 97 million 2017: 130 million.
Events after the balance sheet date The Group updates disclosures in light of new information being received, or a significant event occurring, in the period between 31 December 2018 and the date of this report.
Dividends The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.40 pence per ordinary share totalling 479 million for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Mozambique LNG Purchase Energy Marketing & Trading has signed a joint purchase agreement with Tokyo Gas to take 2.6 million tonnes of LNG per year from the Mozambique LNG Project until the early 2040s.
The project is targeting a final investment decision in the first half of 2019, with commencement of deliveries anticipated from 2023.
Disposal of Clockwork business On 15 February 2019 the Group signed an agreement to dispose of the equity in a number of entities which collectively make up the Clockwork business Clockwork - a component of North America Home Services.
Clockwork consists of retail and franchise operations under the brands One Hour Air Conditioning and Heating, Benjamin Franklin Plumbing and Mister Sparky Electric.
The net assets of the entities to be disposed of, plus the carrying amount of associated intangibles and estimated allocation of goodwill, result in approximately 117 million US$150 million of assets to be divested in exchange for consideration of approximately 234 million US$300 million.
The disposal may trigger a potential impairment of a shared IT system of up to 66 million US$85 million.
The goodwill allocation exercise, impairment review and recycling of any foreign exchange balances from reserves will be finalised prior to the expected transaction completion date of April 2019.
The assets of the disposal group were not held for sale at 31 December 2018 as the sale was not considered to be highly probable at this date.
174 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information Supplementary information includes additional information and disclosures we are required to make by accounting standards or regulation.
General information Centrica plc the Company is a public company limited by shares, domiciled and incorporated in the UK, and registered in England and Wales.
The address of the registered office is Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor, Berkshire, SL4 5GD.
The Company, together with its subsidiaries comprise the Group.
The nature of the Groups operations and principal activities are set out in note 4 a and on pages 2 to 65.
The consolidated Financial Statements of Centrica plc are presented in pounds sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds sterling are included in the consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the foreign currencies accounting policy set out in note S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies This section sets out the Groups significant accounting policies in addition to the critical accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated Financial Statements.
Unless otherwise stated, these accounting policies have been consistently applied to the years presented.
Income Statement presentation The Group Income Statement and segmental note separately identify the effects of re-measurement of certain financial instruments and items that are exceptional, in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups underlying performance, as described in note 2.
Basis of consolidation The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
Control is exercised over an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Transactions with non-controlling interests that relate to their ownership interests and do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at which point the Group gains control over a business as defined by IFRS 3, and applies the acquisition method to account for the transaction as a business combination or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial Statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to align the accounting policies with those used by the Group.
When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
This fair value becomes the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as a joint venture, associate or financial asset.
Segmental reporting The Groups operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to and regularly reviewed by the Groups Executive Committee which is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8: Operating segments for the purposes of evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
Revenue The accounting policies from the Groups revenue from contracts with customers are further explained in note 1.
Revenue from sources other than the Groups contracts with customers is recognised in accordance with the relevant standard, as detailed below: Proprietary energy trading: revenue comprises both realised settled and unrealised fair value changes net gains and losses from trading in physical and financial energy contracts.
Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts: revenue from these contracts is recognised in the Group Income Statement with regard to the incidence of risk over the life of the contract, reflecting the seasonal propensity of claims to be made under the contracts and the benefits receivable by the customer, which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being available throughout the contract term.
Amounts paid in advance are treated as deferred income, with any amount in arrears recognised as accrued income.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 175 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Revenue from the production of natural gas, oil and condensates in which the Group has an interest with other producers is recognised based on the Groups working interest and the terms of the relevant production sharing arrangements the entitlement method.
Where differences arise between production sold and the Groups share of production, this is accounted for as an overlift or underlift see separate accounting policy.
Cost of sales Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity produced and purchased during the year, taking into account the industry reconciliation process for total gas and total electricity usage by supplier and related transportation, distribution, royalty costs and bought-in materials and services.
Cost of sales relating to fixed-fee service and insurance contracts includes direct labour and related overheads on installation work, repairs and service contracts in the year.
Cost of sales relating to gas and oil production includes depreciation of assets used in production of gas and oil, royalty costs and direct labour costs.
Cost of sales within power generation businesses includes the depreciation of assets included in generating power, fuel purchase costs, direct labour costs and carbon emissions costs.
Financing costs Financing costs that arise in connection with the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised and subsequently amortised in line with the depreciation of the related asset.
Financing costs are capitalised from the time of acquisition or from the beginning of construction or production until the point at which the qualifying asset is ready for use.
Where a specific financing arrangement is in place, the specific borrowing rate for that arrangement is applied.
For non-specific financing arrangements, a Group financing rate representative of the weighted average borrowing rate of the Group is used 2018: 4.75%, 2017: 4.55%.
Financing costs not arising in connection with the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are expensed.
Investment income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying value.
Foreign currencies The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the Financial Statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are, on initial recognition, recorded in the functional currency of the entity at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange movements are included in the Group Income Statement for the period.
In previous periods, the Group utilised net investment hedging and exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings and derivatives that provided a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity were taken directly to equity.
Upon the disposal or partial disposal of the net investment, any accumulated foreign exchange reserves related to the investment are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
The Group no longer uses net investment hedging but historic exchange differences remain in equity until the disposal of the specific investments.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity concerned are translated using the exchange rate prevailing at the dates of the initial transaction.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups non-sterling functional currency subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates are translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
The monthly results of these generally foreign subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates are translated into pounds sterling each month at the average rates of exchange for that month.
The closing exchange rates, and the average of the rates used to translate the results of foreign operations to pounds sterling are shown below.
Summary of significant accounting policies Exchange adjustments arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets and results of non-sterling functional currency operations are transferred to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve, a separate component of equity, and are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In the event of the disposal of a non-sterling functional currency subsidiary, the cumulative translation difference arising in the foreign currency translation reserve is charged or credited to the Group Income Statement on disposal.
Employee share schemes The Group operates a number of employee share schemes, detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 103, under which it makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis together with a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of awards that will vest, and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
The majority of the share-based payment charge arises from the following schemes.
More information is included in the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 103.
Deferred Matching Share Scheme DMSS : Applicable employees: Senior Executive Group.
From 2015 this scheme was replaced by the Annual Incentive Plan AIP and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP for Executive Directors and the On Track Incentive Plan OTIP for Senior Executives and senior management.
Vesting period of four years, comprising bonus year and three-year performance period.
Participants must defer between 20% and 40% of annual pre-tax bonus into scheme deferred shares and can elect to invest additional amounts of annual bonus up to a maximum of 50% of total potential bonus investment shares.
Deferred and investment shares will be matched with conditional shares.
On achievement of performance targets over a three-year period, matching shares are either released immediately or delivered as nil cost options exercisable for seven years.
Performance measured through Group and segment Economic Profit EP targets.
Leaving prior to vesting date will normally mean forfeiting rights to deferred and matching shares.
Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS : Applicable employees: senior management.
From 2015 this scheme was replaced by the AIP and LTIP for Executive Directors and OTIP for Senior Executives and senior management.
Vesting period of three years following grant date.
Grants after 2012: number of shares calculated according to adjusted EPS, Group EP, total shareholder return TSR and non-financial KPIs.
Following the end of the assessed performance period, and subject to continued employment at that date, shares are either released immediately or delivered as nil cost options exercisable for seven years.
Leaving prior to vesting date will normally mean forfeiting rights.
On Track Incentive Plan OTIP : Applicable employees: Senior Executives, senior and middle management.
Shares vest subject to continued employment within the Group in two stages: half after two years and the other half after three years.
Leaving prior to vesting date will normally mean forfeiting rights to the unvested share awards.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP : Applicable employees: Executive Directors.
Shares vest subject to continued employment and performance conditions after a three-year period.
Number of shares calculated according to adjusted EPS, Group EP and non-financial KPIs.
Mandatory holding period of two years following vesting during which claw back applies.
Annual Incentive Plan AIP : Applicable employees: Senior Executive Group.
Replaces the previous Annual Incentive Scheme AIS, Deferred and Matching Share Scheme DMSS and Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS.
Designed to incentivise and reward the achievement of demanding financial and individual strategically aligned performance obligations.
Half of the award is paid in cash.
The other half is paid in shares which vest immediately but are deferred in trust, two-thirds of which are released after three years and the remaining third after four years.
Dividends payable during restricted periods.
If performance is not deemed satisfactory, an individuals payment may be reduced or forfeited.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 177 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Sharesave: Applicable employees: All UK and Ireland employees.
Options granted with a fixed exercise price equal to 80% of the average market price of the shares for three days prior to invitation which is three to four weeks prior to the grant date.
Employees pay a monthly fixed amount into a savings account and may elect to save over three or five years.
At the end of the savings period, employees have six months to exercise their options or withdraw the saved funds.
For each of the schemes, the fair value is measured using the market value on the date of the grant.
Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method at the point the Group gains control over a business as defined by IFRS 3.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the cash paid and the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of other assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement at the acquisition date.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at FVLCD.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interests in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquirees identifiable net assets.
Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of the non-controlling interests and the acquisition date fair value of any previously held interest in the acquiree over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a stake in a joint venture or an associate represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
The goodwill arising on an investment in a joint venture or in an associate is not recognised separately, but is shown under Interests in joint ventures and associates in the Group Balance Sheet.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Acquisitions of joint operations that meet the definition of a business as defined in IFRS 3 are accounted for as a business combination.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture entity, any amount of goodwill attributed to that entity is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
A similar accounting treatment is applied on disposal of assets that represent a business.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
Intangible assets include contractual customer relationships, brands, application software, emissions trading schemes, renewable obligation and renewable energy certificates, and certain exploration and evaluation expenditures, the accounting policies for which are dealt with separately below.
For purchased application software, for example investments in customer relationship management and billing systems, cost includes contractors charges, materials, directly attributable labour and directly attributable overheads.
Capitalisation begins when expenditure for the asset is being incurred and activities necessary to prepare the asset for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for use are complete.
Amortisation commences at the point of commercial deployment.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful lives and are tested for impairment annually, otherwise they are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset could be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset are reviewed at each financial year end.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are accounted for on a prospective basis by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates.
Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset could be impaired, either individually or at the CGU level.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
The useful economic lives for the principal categories of intangible assets are as follows: Customer relationships and other contractual assets Up to 20 years Strategic identifiable acquired brands Indefinite Application software Up to 15 years 178 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies EU Emissions Trading Scheme and renewable obligation certificates Purchased carbon dioxide emissions allowances are recognised initially at cost purchase price within intangible assets.
The liability is measured at the cost of purchased allowances up to the level of purchased allowances held, and then at the market price of allowances ruling at the balance sheet date, with movements in the liability recognised in operating profit.
Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of carbon dioxide emissions allowances are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in the Group Income Statement.
The intangible asset is surrendered and the liability is extinguished at the end of the compliance period to reflect the consumption of economic benefits.
Purchased renewable obligation certificates are recognised initially at cost within intangible assets.
A liability for the renewables obligation is recognised based on the level of electricity supplied to customers, and is calculated in accordance with percentages set by the UK Government and the renewable obligation certificate buyout price for that period.
Any recycling benefit related to the submission of renewable obligation certificates is recognised in the Group Income Statement when received.
Exploration, evaluation, development and production assets The Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Exploration and evaluation expenditures associated with an exploration well, including acquisition costs related to exploration and evaluation activities are capitalised initially as intangible assets.
Certain expenditures such as geological and geophysical exploration costs are expensed.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be successful on completion of evaluation, the relevant expenditure including licence acquisition costs is transferred to PP&E.
If the prospects are subsequently determined to be unsuccessful on completion of evaluation, the associated costs are expensed in the period in which that determination is made.
All field development costs are capitalised as PP&E.
Such costs relate to the acquisition and installation of production facilities and include development drilling costs, project-related engineering and other technical services costs.
PP&E, including rights and concessions related to production activities, are depreciated from the commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production method, based on all of the 2P reserves of those fields.
Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
The net carrying value of fields in production and development is compared annually on a field-by-field basis with the likely discounted future net revenues to be derived from the remaining commercial reserves.
An impairment loss is recognised where it is considered that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the net present value of future net revenues.
Exploration assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment and production and development assets are tested annually for impairment.
Interests in joint arrangements and associates Under IFRS 11, joint arrangements are those that convey joint control, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
Associates are investments over which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control, which are generally investments in which the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The Groups joint ventures and associates as defined in note 6 are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, investments are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets, less any impairment in value in individual investments.
The Group Income Statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations after tax and interest.
Adjustments are made to the results and net assets of the joint ventures and associates where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Upon initial acquisition goodwill may arise and is recognised within Interests in joint ventures and associates in the Group Balance Sheet.
The Groups interests in joint operations gas and oil exploration and production licence arrangements are accounted for by recognising its assets including its share of assets held jointly, its liabilities including its share of liabilities incurred jointly, its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation, its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation and its expenses including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
Where the Group has an equity stake or a participating interest in operations governed by a joint arrangement for which it is acting as operator, an assessment is carried out to confirm whether the Group is acting as agent or principal.
As the terms and conditions negotiated between business partners usually provide joint control to the parties over the relevant activities of the gas and oil fields that are governed by joint arrangements, the Group is usually deemed to be an agent when it is appointed as operator and not as principal as the contracts entered into do not convey control to the parties.
Accordingly, the Group recognises its interests in these arrangements as outlined above except that it presents gross liabilities and gross receivables of joint operations including amounts due to or from non-operating partners in the Group Balance Sheet in accordance with the netting rules of IAS 32: Financial instruments -- - presentation.
Property, plant and equipment PP&E is included in the Group Balance Sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Subsequent expenditure in respect of items of PP&E, such as the replacement of major parts, major inspections or overhauls, are capitalised as part of the cost of the related asset where it is probable that future economic benefits will arise as a result of the expenditure and the cost can be reliably measured.
All other subsequent expenditure, including the costs of day-to-day servicing, repairs and maintenance, is expensed as incurred.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 179 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other PP&E, with the exception of upstream production assets see above, are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of individual assets over their estimated useful lives.
The depreciation periods for the principal categories of assets are as follows: Freehold and leasehold buildings Up to 50 years Plant Five to 20 years Equipment and vehicles Three to 10 years Power generation assets Up to 30 years i Gas storage assets Up to 40 years i The depreciation policy for the Groups UK Storage assets applied during 2017.
Following the grant of consent from the Oil and Gas Authority confirming transition from a storage operation into one of production on 17 January 2018, this policy changed to be consistent with the unit of production method used by other production assets.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as for owned assets or, where shorter, the lease term.
The carrying values of PP&E are tested annually for impairment and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment assumptions Details of the approach taken to assess and measure impairment are included in note 7 d. The following provides further information on the assumptions used in the VIU calculations and FVLCD calculations that did not result in impairment or impairment reversals during the year: VIU -- Key a - ssumptions used Pre-tax cash flows used in the VIU calculations are derived from the Groups Board-approved business plans, extended as necessary to reflect strategic shape and assumptions specific to the nature and life of the asset.
The Groups business plans and strategic shape assumptions are based on past experience and adjusted to reflect market trends, economic conditions, key risks, the implementation of strategic objectives and changes in commodity prices, as appropriate.
Commodity prices used in the planning process are based in part on observable market data and in part on internal estimates.
The extent to which the commodity prices used in the business plans are based on observable market data is determined by the extent to which the market for the underlying commodity is judged to be active.
a VIU -- Gr - owth rates and discount rates Unless stated otherwise in the table below, cash flows beyond the planned period have been extrapolated using long-term growth rates in the market where the CGU operates.
Long-term growth rates are determined using a blend of publicly available historical data and long-term growth rate forecasts published by external analysts.
Cash flows are discounted using a discount rate specific to each CGU.
Discount rates reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and are based on the estimated cost of capital of each CGU.
Additionally, risks specific to the cash flows of the CGUs are reflected within cash flow forecasts.
Each CGUs weighted average cost of capital is then adjusted to reflect the impact of tax in order to calculate an equivalent pre-tax discount rate.
Long-term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates used in the VIU calculations for each of the Groups CGUs are provided in the table below: North America North America Connected Distributed Energy Home Business Home Energy & Power Marketing & UK Home UK Business Ireland i i ii CPG Nuclear turbines engines Trading 2018 % % % % % % % % % Growth rate to perpetuity iv iv including inflation 2.1 2.1 1.4 2.2 2.0 2.2 2.0 2.2 2.1 N A N A 2.1 Pre-tax discount rate 8.2 8.2 7.8 9.1 11.0 12.3 11.1 9.2 8.2 9.9 North America North America Connected Distributed Energy Home Business Home Energy & Power Marketing & UK Home UK Business Ireland i iii i iii ii iii CPG Nuclear ii iii Trading 2017 % % % % % % % % % Growth rate to perpetuity including inflation 2.6 2.6 1.3 2.1 2.0 2.1 2.0 2.1 2.6 N A 2.1 2.6 2.6 Pre-tax discount rate 7.3 7.3 7.2 7.9 7.5 7.9 7.5 10.4 9.5 N A 10.4 9.5 9.0 i US Canada respectively.
iii The US discount rates used for impairment testing purposes were calculated prior to the reduction in US federal tax rates.
The reduction in tax rates would not have changed the impairment conclusions.
iv Cash flows arising after the planned period have been derived from forecasts to the end of the asset lives.
Due to the nature of these finite-lived assets, this provides a more appropriate valuation in later years.
b VIU -- I - nflation rates Inflation rates used in the business plan were based on a blend of a number of publicly available inflation forecasts for the UK, Canada, the Republic of Ireland and the US.
180 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies c Key operating assumptions by CGUs using VIU The key operating assumptions across all CGUs are gross margin, revenues and operating costs.
These assumptions are tailored to the specific CGU using managements knowledge of the environment, as shown in the table below: CGU Gross margin Revenues Operating costs UK Home Existing customers: based on Existing customers: based on Wages: projected headcount in line with expected contractual terms.
Salary increases based on inflation expectations.
Losses are forecast based on historic data Losses are forecast based on historic data and future expectations of the market.
and future expectations of the market.
Credit losses: historical assumptions regarding realised cash losses have been updated to reflect New customers and renewals: based on Adjusted for: growth forecasts which are the current UK environment.
gross margins achieved in the period leading based on sales and marketing activity, recent up to the date of the business plan.
Both customer acquisitions and the current adjusted for current market conditions and economic environment in the UK.
Gas and electricity revenues based on For the Services business, future sales and forward market prices.
related gross margins are based on planned future product sales and contract losses based upon past performance and future expectations of the competitive environment.
UK Business Existing customers: based on Market share: percentage immediately prior Wages: projected headcount in line with contractual terms.
New customers and renewals: based on Adjusted for: growth forecasts which are gross margins achieved in the period leading based on sales, marketing activity, recent Credit losses: historical assumptions regarding up to the date of the business plan.
Both customer acquisitions and the current realised cash losses have been updated to reflect adjusted for current market conditions and economic environment in the UK.
Gas and electricity revenues based on forward market prices.
Ireland Existing customers: based on Market share: percentage immediately prior Wages: projected headcount in line with contractual terms.
New customers and renewals: based on Adjusted for: growth forecasts which are gross margins achieved in the period leading based on sales, marketing activity and recent Credit losses: historical assumptions regarding up to the date of the business plan.
realised cash losses have been updated to reflect adjusted for current market conditions, the current Irish market environment.
Gas and electricity revenues based on inflation and transportation costs.
North Existing customers: based on contractual Market share: average percentage Wages: projected headcount in line with America terms and gross margins achieved in the immediately prior to business plan.
Salary increases based on Home period leading up to the date of the Services business, the market share is based inflation expectations.
on historical growth trends and planned Future developments: reduction in costs to reflect sales activities by individual market sectors.
New customers and renewals: based on expected savings.
gross margins achieved in the period leading Adjusted for: expectations of growth or Customer acquisition: based on experience of up to the date of the business plan.
decline to reflect competitive differences.
For costs required to support acquisition, renewal and the Services business, adjustments are Adjusted for: competitor data.
For the other servicing activities.
made for new product offerings and Services business, adjustments are made for Credit losses: historical assumptions regarding continued penetration into new markets.
current economic conditions and the status realised cash losses have been updated to reflect of the housing market as appropriate.
the current North American environment.
North Existing customers: based on Market share: based on historical growth Wages: projected headcount in line with expected America contractual terms.
trends and planned sales activities by activity.
Salary increases based on forecast Business individual market sector.
New customers and renewals: based on gross margins achieved historically.
Adjusted for: prices based on contractual Future developments: reduction in costs to reflect terms for fixed price contracts and forward expected savings.
market curves for both gas and electricity in Customer acquisition: based on experience of Canada and the US.
costs required to support acquisition, renewal and other servicing activities.
Credit losses: historical assumptions regarding realised cash losses have been updated to reflect the current North American environment.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 181 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies CGU Gross margin Revenues Operating costs Connected Future sales: based on gross margins Market share: based on current growth Wages: projected headcount in line with Home achieved in the period leading up to the date trends and planned sales activities by expected activity.
Salary increases based on of the business plan.
Adjusted for: recurring revenue subscriptions Adjusted for: new product offerings and Future developments: costs to increase in line with by driving service-led propositions.
continued penetration into new markets.
customer growth, adjusted to reflect planned business process efficiencies.
One-off revenues based on current external rates.
Recurring revenues based on Credit losses: historical assumptions regarding expected package price.
realised cash losses have been updated to reflect the current UK and US environment.
Energy Asset-backed business: Asset-backed business: customer book Wages: projected headcount in line with Marketing & immediately prior to business plan.
Salary increases based on Existing customers: based on Trading inflation expectations.
Bonuses: in line with contractual terms.
New customers and renewals: based on Future development: increase in costs to support gross margins in the period leading up to the growth forecasts, adjusted for planned business date of the business plan and estimates of process efficiencies.
Trading business: Existing and new markets: managements estimate of future trading performance.
Distributed Based on forecast revenues, operations and Based on forward and contracted prices for Based on run-rate and forecast changes, including Energy & maintenance costs, grid network and commodity, capacity market and grid expected inflation for the asset life.
Power balancing system charges for the asset life.
ancillary service contracts for the asset life.
turbines No capacity market revenue until October engines 2019, but resuming prospectively thereafter.
Central Based on forward commodity prices and Based on forward commodity prices and Based on latest JV Board approved forecasts Power capacity rates, and forecasts of fuel, capacity rates for the remaining fleet life.
extrapolated for the remaining fleet life.
Generation transportation costs, and balancing system No capacity market revenue until October Nuclear charges for the remaining fleet life.
FVLCD -- - key assumptions used Distributed Energy and Power A FVLCD calculation has been performed to value the customer CGU within Distributed Energy & Power.
Post-tax cash flows used in the FVLCD calculation for the first five years are based on the Groups Board-approved business plans and strategic shape assumptions and, thereafter, are based on long-term production and cash flow forecasts based on terminal values, which management believes reflects the assumptions of a market participant.
The future post-tax cash flows are discounted using a post-tax nominal discount rate of 8.5% to determine the FVLCD.
The discount rate and inflation rate used in the FVLCD calculation are determined in the same manner as the rates used in the VIU calculations described above, with the exception of the adjustment required to determine an equivalent pre-tax discount rate.
Overlift and underlift Off-take arrangements for gas and oil produced from joint operations are often such that it is not practical for each participant to receive or sell its precise share of the overall production during the period.
This results in short-term imbalances between cumulative production entitlement and cumulative sales, referred to as overlift and underlift.
An overlift payable, or underlift receivable, is recognised at the balance sheet date within trade and other payables or trade and other receivables respectively, and is measured at market value, with movements in the period recognised within cost of sales.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in PP&E at their fair value, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months included in bank overdrafts, loans and other borrowings within current liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and the reduction of the finance lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Payments under operating leases are charged to the Group Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Inventories Inventories of finished goods are valued at the lower of cost or estimated net realisable value after allowance for redundant and slow-moving items.
The cost of inventories includes the purchase price plus costs of conversion incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
182 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Inventory of gas in storage is valued either on a weighted average cost basis or at fair value less any costs to sell depending on the business model for holding the inventory.
Changes in fair value less costs to sell are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Oil inventory is measured at fair value, being the spot price at the balance sheet date.
Decommissioning costs Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning gas and oil production facilities at the end of the producing lives of fields and power stations at the end of their useful lives, based on price levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
When this provision relates to an asset with sufficient future economic benefits, a decommissioning asset is recognised and included as part of the associated PP&E and depreciated accordingly.
If there is an indication that the new carrying amount of the asset is not fully recoverable, the asset is tested for impairment and an impairment loss is recognised where necessary.
Changes in these estimates and changes to the discount rates are dealt with prospectively and reflected as an adjustment to the provision and corresponding decommissioning asset included within PP&E.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in the Group Income Statement within financing costs.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition and the Directors are committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
The profits or losses and cash flows that relate to a major component of the Group that has been sold or is classified as held for sale are presented separately from continuing operations as discontinued operations within the Group Income Statement and Group Cash Flow Statement.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each scheme using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period in which they occur in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The cost of providing retirement pensions and other benefits is charged to the Group Income Statement over the periods benefiting from employees service.
Past service cost is recognised immediately.
Costs of administering the schemes are charged to the Group Income Statement.
Net interest, being the change in the net defined benefit liability or asset due to the passage of time, is recognised in the Group Income Statement within net finance cost.
The net defined benefit liability or asset recognised in the Group Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation of the schemes and the fair value of the schemes assets.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits are paid, and that have terms of maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are recognised in the Group Income Statement as they fall due.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, that can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the Group Income Statement within interest expense.
Onerous contract provisions are recognised where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Contracts to purchase or sell energy are reviewed on a portfolio basis given the fungible nature of energy, whereby it is assumed that the highest priced purchase contract supplies the highest priced sales contract and the lowest priced sales contract is supplied by the lowest priced purchase contract.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax, UK petroleum revenue tax and foreign tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
From time to time, the Group may have open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities.
Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable estimate of the dispute can be made, management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice.
Each item is considered separately and on a basis that provides the better prediction of the outcome.
See note 9 for further details on uncertain tax provisions.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences identified at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill if impairment of goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax liabilities may be offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future, against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 183 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences expected from the manner in which the asset or liability is recovered or settled.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the Group no longer has the rights to cash flows, the risks and rewards of ownership or control of the asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
a Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoice amount, and are subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest method less an allowance for impairment losses.
Changes in the Groups impairment policy as a result of the application of IFRS 9 are shown at note 1.
Balances are written off when recoverability is assessed as being remote.
If collection is due in one year or less, receivables are classified as current assets.
If not they are presented as non-current assets.
b Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoice amount and are subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
If payment is due within one year or less, payables are classified as current liabilities.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
c Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds received.
Own equity instruments that are reacquired treasury or own shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the Group Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
d Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents are presented net of outstanding bank overdrafts where there is a legal right of set off and, for the Groups cash pooling arrangements, to the extent the Group expects to settle its subsidiaries year-end account balances on a net basis.
Money market funds are included in Cash and Cash Equivalents and are measured at fair value through profit and loss, in accordance with the policy detailed below.
For the purpose of the Group Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
e Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings with banks and similar institutions are initially recognised at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except when they are hedged items in an effective fair value hedge relationship where the carrying value is also adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risks.
Such fair value movements are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, discount or premium.
f Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are equity instruments that the Group has elected to recognise the changes in fair value of in other comprehensive income.
In the prior year, these instruments were classified as available-for-sale.
They are recognised initially at fair value in the Group Balance Sheet and are re-measured subsequently at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised directly in equity and presented in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Accrued interest or dividends arising on these financial assets are recognised in the Group Income Statement.
If the Group assesses the need to recognise a loss allowance on a financial asset carried at fair value through other comprehensive income, the loss allowance is recognised in other comprehensive income, however, the recognition of a loss allowance does not impact the carrying value of the asset on the Groups balance sheet.
Cumulative gains and losses on equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income are not recycled to the Group Income Statement.
g Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss The Group holds investments in gilts which it designates at fair value through profit or loss in order to eliminate asymmetry arising from the measurement of an index-linked derivative.
Other debt instruments and money market funds are mandatorily required under IFRS 9 to be measured at fair value through profit or loss as the assets are not held solely for the purpose of collecting contractual cashflows related to principal and interest see note 1 for changes in classification of financial instruments on application of IFRS 9.
Both mandatory and designated instruments are measured at fair value on initial recognition and are re-measured to fair value in each subsequent reporting period.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the Group Income Statement within investment income or financing costs.
184 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies h Derivative financial instruments The Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions for physical delivery of gas, power and oil.
A portion of these transactions take the form of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of the physical commodity in accordance with the Groups expected sale, purchase or usage requirements own use, and are not within the scope of IFRS 9.
The assessment of whether a contract is deemed to be own use is conducted on a Group basis without reference to underlying book structures, business units or legal entities.
Certain purchase and sales contracts for the physical delivery of gas, power and oil are within the scope of IFRS 9 due to the fact that they net settle or contain written options.
Such contracts are accounted for as derivatives under IFRS 9 and are recognised in the Group Balance Sheet at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the Group Income Statement for the year.
The Group uses a range of derivatives for both trading and to hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rates, foreign exchange and energy price risks, arising in the normal course of business.
The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by the Groups policies which are approved by the Board of Directors.
Further detail on the Groups risk management policies is included within the Strategic Report -- - Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 41 to 50 and in note S3.
The accounting treatment of derivatives is dependent on whether they are entered into for trading or hedging purposes.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies and is in accordance with established guidelines.
Certain derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are designated in hedge accounting relationships as described by IAS 39 the Group has not applied the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the effectiveness of the hedge must be reliably measurable and documentation describing the formal hedging relationship must be prepared at the point of designation.
The hedge must be highly effective in achieving its objective.
The Group also holds derivatives that are used for hedging purposes which are not designated in hedge accounting relationships and are held for trading.
All derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative is entered into and are re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are offset and presented on a net basis only when there is a currently enforceable legal right of set-off, and the intention to net settle the derivative contracts is present.
The Group enters into certain energy derivative contracts covering periods for which observable market data does not exist.
The fair value of such derivatives is estimated by reference in part to published price quotations from active markets, to the extent that such observable market data exists, and in part by using valuation techniques, the inputs to which include data that is not based on or derived from observable markets.
Where the fair value at initial recognition for such contracts differs from the transaction price, a fair value gain or fair value loss will arise.
This is referred to as a day-one gain or day-one loss.
Such gains and losses are deferred not recognised and amortised to the Group Income Statement based on volumes purchased or delivered over the contractual period until such time as observable market data becomes available.
When observable market data becomes available, any remaining deferred day-one gains or losses are recognised within the Group Income Statement.
Recognition of the gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value depends on the purpose for issuing or holding the derivative.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the Group Income Statement and are included within gross profit or investment income and financing costs.
Gains and losses arising on derivatives entered into for speculative energy trading purposes are presented on a net basis within revenue.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the Group Income Statement.
The closely related nature of embedded derivatives is reassessed when there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the future cash flows under the contract.
Where a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives, and providing that the embedded derivative significantly modifies the cash flows under the contract, the option to fair value the entire contract may be taken and the contract will be recognised at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Group Income Statement.
i Hedge accounting The Group continues to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 and has not adopted IFRS 9 hedge accounting.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
Note S5 details the Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39. j Impairment of financial assets In accordance with IFRS 9, the Group has applied the expected credit loss model to financial assets measured at amortised cost and fair value through Other Comprehensive Income.
For trade receivables, contract assets and finance lease receivables, the simplified approach is taken and the lifetime expected credit loss provided for.
For all other in-scope financial assets at the balance sheet date either the lifetime expected credit loss or a 12-month expected credit loss is provided for, depending on the Groups assessment of whether the credit risk associated with the specific asset has increased significantly since initial recognition.
As the Groups financial assets are predominantly short term less than 12 months, the impairment loss recognised is not materially different using either approach.
Further details of the assumptions and inputs used to calculate expected credit losses are shown in note 17.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 185 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Nuclear activity The Groups investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited Nuclear is accounted for as an associate.
The following accounting policies are specific to this nuclear activity.
a Fuel costs -- n - uclear front end Front end fuel costs consist of the costs of procurement of uranium, conversion and enrichment services, and fuel element fabrication.
All costs are capitalised into inventory and charged to the Group Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.
b Fuel costs -- - nuclear back end Advanced gas-cooled reactors AGR Spent fuel extracted from the reactors is sent for reprocessing and or long-term storage and eventual disposal of resulting waste products.
Back end fuel costs comprise of a loading related cost per tonne of uranium and a rebate surcharge to this cost which is dependent on the outturn market electricity price and the amount of electricity generated from AGR stations in the year.
These costs are capitalised into inventory and charged to the Group Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.
Pressurised water reactor PWR Back end fuel costs are based on wet storage in station ponds followed by dry storage and subsequent direct disposal of fuel.
Back end fuel costs are capitalised into inventory on loading and are charged to the Group Income Statement in proportion to the amount of fuel burnt.
c Nuclear property, plant and equipment and depreciation The majority of the cost of the nuclear fleet is depreciated from the date of the Group acquiring its share of the fleet on a straight-line basis, with remaining depreciable periods currently of up to 17 years.
Other expenditure including amounts spent on major inspections and overhauls of production plant is depreciated over the period until the next outage which for AGR power stations is two to three years and for the PWR power station is 18 months.
d Nuclear Liabilities Fund NLF funding arrangements Under the arrangements in place with the Secretary of State, the NLF will fund, subject to certain exceptions, qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities and qualifying decommissioning costs.
In part consideration for the assumption of these liabilities by the Secretary of State and the NLF, the former British Energy Group agreed to pay fixed decommissioning contributions each year and 150,000 indexed to RPI for every tonne of uranium in PWR fuel loaded into the Sizewell B reactor after the date of these arrangements.
e NLF and nuclear liabilities receivables The UK Government indemnity is provided to indemnify any future shortfall on NLF funding of qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities including PWR back end fuel services and qualifying nuclear decommissioning costs such that the receivable equals the present value of the associated qualifying nuclear liabilities apart from a small timing difference due to timing of receipts from NLF.
f Nuclear liabilities Nuclear liabilities represent provision for liabilities in respect of the costs of waste management of spent fuel and nuclear decommissioning.
g Unburnt fuels at shutdown Due to the nature of the nuclear fuel process there will be quantities of unburnt fuel in the reactors at station closure.
The costs relating to this unburnt fuel final core are fully provided for at the balance sheet date.
The provision is based on a projected value per tonne of fuel remaining at closure, discounted back to the balance sheet date and recorded as a long-term liability.
186 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S3.
Financial risk management The Groups normal operating, investing and financing activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall financial risk management processes are designed to identify, manage and mitigate these risks.
Further detail on the Groups overall risk management processes is included within the Strategic Report -- - Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 41 to 50.
Commodity price risk management is carried out in accordance with individual business unit policies and directives including appropriate escalation routes.
Treasury risk management, including management of currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk is carried out by a central Group Treasury function in accordance with the Groups financing and treasury policy, as approved by the Board.
The wholesale credit risks associated with commodity trading and treasury positions are managed in accordance with the Groups credit risk policy.
Downstream customer credit risk management is carried out in accordance with individual business unit credit policies.
Market risk management Market risk is the risk of loss that results from changes in market prices commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The level of market risk to which the Group is exposed at a point in time varies depending on market conditions, expectations of future price or market rate movements and the composition of the Groups physical asset and contract portfolios.
a Commodity price risk management The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in its energy procurement and supply activities, production, generation and trading operations and uses specific limits to manage the exposure to commodity prices associated with the Groups activities to an acceptable level.
The Group uses Profit at Risk PaR limits to control exposures to market prices.
These are complemented by other limits including Value at Risk VaR, volumetric or stop-loss limits to control risk around trading activities.
i Energy price exposed business activities The Groups price exposed business activities consist of equity gas and liquids production, equity power generation, bilateral procurement and sales contracts, market-traded purchase and sales contracts and derivative positions primarily transacted with the intent of securing gas and power for the Groups supply customers, from a variety of sources at an optimal cost.
The Group actively manages commodity price risk by optimising its asset and contract portfolios and making use of volume flexibility.
The Groups commodity price risk exposure in its business activities is driven by the cost of procuring gas and electricity to serve its supply customers and selling gas, oil and electricity from its upstream production and generation, which varies with wholesale commodity prices.
The primary risk is that market prices for commodities will fluctuate between the time that sales prices are fixed or tariffs are set and the time at which the corresponding procurement cost is fixed, thereby potentially reducing expected margins or making sales unprofitable.
The Groups supply activities are also exposed to volumetric risk in the form of an uncertain consumption profile arising from a range of factors, including the weather, energy consumption changes, customer attrition and the economic climate.
There is also risk associated with ensuring that there is sufficient commodity available to secure supply to customers.
The Groups production and generation activities are also exposed to volumetric risk in the form of uncertain production profiles.
In order to manage the exposure to market prices associated with the Groups business operations the Group uses a specific set of limits including VaR and PaR established by the Board, and sub-delegated downwards through the delegation lines to the commercial leaders.
PaR measures the estimated potential loss in a position or portfolio of positions associated with the movement of a commodity price for a given confidence level, over the remaining term of the position or contract.
VaR measures the estimated potential loss for a given confidence level over a predetermined holding period.
The standard confidence level used is 95%.
In addition, regular stress and scenario tests are performed to evaluate the impact on the portfolio of possible substantial movements in commodity prices.
The Group measures and manages the commodity price risk associated with the Groups entire energy price exposed business portfolio.
Only certain of the Groups energy contracts constitute financial instruments under IFRS 9 note S6.
As a result, while the Group manages the commodity price risk associated with both financial and non-financial energy procurement, sales and purchase contracts, it is the notional value of energy contracts being carried at fair value that represents the exposure of the Groups energy price exposed business activities to commodity price risk according to IFRS 7: Financial instruments: disclosures.
This is because energy contracts that are financial instruments under IFRS 9 are accounted for on a fair value basis and changes in fair value immediately impact profit.
Conversely, energy contracts that are not financial instruments under IFRS 9 are accounted for as executory contracts and changes in fair value do not immediately impact profit, and as such, are not exposed to commodity price risk as defined by IFRS 7.
So, whilst the PaR or VaR associated with energy procurement and supply contracts that are outside the scope of IFRS 9 are monitored for internal risk management purposes: only those energy contracts within the scope of IFRS 9 are within the scope of the IFRS 7 disclosure requirements.
ii Proprietary energy trading The Groups proprietary energy trading activities consist of physical and financial commodity purchases and sales contracts taken on with the intent of benefiting from changes in market prices or differences between buying and selling prices.
The Group conducts its trading activities in the over-the-counter market and through exchanges in the UK, North America and continental Europe.
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its proprietary energy trading activities because the value of its trading assets and liabilities will fluctuate with changes in market prices for commodities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 187 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S3.
Financial risk management The Group sets volumetric and VaR limits to manage the commodity price risk exposure associated with the Groups proprietary energy trading activities.
VaR measures the estimated potential loss at a 95% confidence level over a one-day holding period.
The carrying value of energy contracts used in proprietary energy trading activities at 31 December 2018 is disclosed in note 19.
As with any modelled risk measure, there are certain limitations that arise from the assumptions used in the VaR calculation.
VaR assumes that historical price behaviours will continue in the future and that the Groups trading positions can be unwound or hedged within the predetermined holding period.
Furthermore, the use of a 95% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account changes in value that might occur beyond this confidence level.
b Currency risk management The Group is exposed to currency risk on foreign currency denominated forecast transactions, firm commitments, monetary assets and liabilities transactional exposure and on its net investments in foreign operations translational exposure.
IFRS 7 only requires disclosure of currency risk arising on financial instruments denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the commercial operation transacting.
As a result, for the purposes of IFRS 7, currency risk excludes items that are not financial instruments, such as the Groups net investments in international operations as well as foreign currency denominated forecast transactions and firm commitments.
i Transactional currency risk The Group is exposed to transactional currency risk on transactions denominated in currencies other than the underlying functional currency of the commercial operation transacting.
The Group has been increasing its international presence through acquisition and the primary functional currencies remain pounds sterling in the UK, Canadian dollars in Canada, US dollars in the US, Norwegian krone in Norway, Danish krone in Denmark and euros in the Netherlands and the Republic of Ireland.
The risk is that the functional currency value of cash flows will vary as a result of movements in exchange rates.
Transactional exposure arises from the Groups energy procurement, production and generation activities, where many transactions are denominated in foreign currencies.
In addition, in order to optimise the cost of funding, the Group has, in certain cases, issued foreign currency denominated debt or entered into foreign currency loans, primarily in US dollars, euros, Japanese yen and Hong Kong dollars.
It is the Groups policy to hedge material transactional exposures using derivatives to fix the functional currency value of non-functional currency cash flows, except where there is an economic hedge inherent in the transaction.
At 31 December 2018, there were no material unhedged nonfunctional currency monetary assets or liabilities, firm commitments or probable forecast transactions 2017: nil, other than transactions which have an inherent economic hedge and foreign currency borrowings used to hedge translational exposures.
ii Translational currency risk The Group is exposed to translational currency risk as a result of its net investments in North America and Europe.
The risk is that the pound sterling value of the net assets of foreign operations will decrease with changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups policy is to protect the pounds sterling book value of its net investments in foreign operations where appropriate, subject to certain parameters, by holding foreign currency debt, entering into foreign currency derivatives, or a mixture of both.
The Group manages translational currency risk taking into consideration the cash impact of any hedging activity as well as the risk to the net asset numbers in the Groups Financial Statements.
The translation hedging programme including the potential cash impact is managed by the Group Treasury function and monitored by the Chief Financial Officer.
c Interest rate risk management In the normal course of business the Group borrows to finance its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because the fair value of fixed rate borrowings and the cash flows associated with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate with changes in interest rates.
The Groups policy is to manage the interest rate risk on long-term borrowings by ensuring the exposure to floating interest rates remains within a 30% to 70% range, including the impact of interest rate derivatives.
The return generated on the Groups cash balance is also exposed to movements in short-term interest rates.
The Group manages cash balances to protect against adverse changes in rates whilst retaining liquidity.
d Sensitivity analysis IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a sensitivity analysis that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in market variables commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates as a result of changes in the fair value or cash flows associated with the Groups financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis provided discloses the effect on profit or loss and equity at 31 December 2018, assuming that a reasonably possible change in the relevant risk variable had occurred at 31 December 2018, and has been applied to the risk exposures in existence at that date to show the effects of reasonably possible changes in price on profit or loss and equity.
Reasonably possible changes in market variables used in the sensitivity analysis are based on implied volatilities, where available, or historical data for energy prices and foreign exchange rates.
Reasonably possible changes in interest rates are based on management judgement and historical experience.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on 31 December 2018 balances and on the basis that the balances, the ratio of fixed to floating rates of debt and derivatives, the proportion of energy contracts that are financial instruments, the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies and the hedge designations in place at 31 December 2018 are all constant.
Excluded from this analysis are all non-financial assets and liabilities and energy contracts that are not financial instruments under IFRS 9.
The sensitivity to foreign exchange rates relates only to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the commercial operation transacting, and excludes the translation of the net assets of foreign operations to pounds sterling.
188 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S3.
Financial risk management The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced.
This is because the Groups actual exposure to market rates is changing constantly as the Groups portfolio of commodity, debt and foreign currency contracts changes.
Changes in fair values or cash flows based on a variation in a market variable cannot be extrapolated because the relationship between the change in market variable and the change in fair value or cash flows may not be linear.
In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Group.
The sensitivity analysis provided excludes the impact of proprietary energy trading assets and liabilities because the VaR associated with the Groups proprietary energy trading activities is less than 5 million.
i Transactional currency risk The Group has performed an analysis of the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group deems 10% movements to US dollar, Canadian dollar and euro currency rates relative to pounds sterling to be reasonably possible.
The impact of such movements on profit and equity, both before and after taxation, is immaterial.
ii Interest rate risk The Group has performed an analysis of the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in interest rates.
The Group deems a one percentage point move in UK, US and euro interest rates to be reasonably possible.
The impact of such movements on profit and equity, both after taxation, is immaterial.
iii Commodity price risk The impacts of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit and equity, both after taxation, based on the assumptions set out above are as follows: 2018 2017 Reasonably Reasonably possible possible change in change in variable ii variable ii Energy prices Base price i % Base price i % UK gas p therm 54 -14 48 --1- 1 UK power MWh 54 -12 45 --7- UK emissions tonne 26 -22 8 --1- 8 UK oil US$ bbl 56 -20 62 --1- 0 North American gas US cents therm 27 -4 28 --4- North American power US$ MWh 34 -6 32 --6- 2018 2017 Impact on Impact on profit ii profit ii Incremental profit loss m m UK energy prices combined -- - increase decrease 18 9 68 72 North American energy prices combined -- - increase decrease 280 280 238 238 i The base price represents the average forward market price over the duration of the active market curve used in the sensitivity analysis provided.
ii The reasonably possible change in variable and the impact on profit are calculated using both the active and inactive market curves for all UK energy prices.
The impact on Other Comprehensive Income of such price changes is immaterial.
Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of loss associated with a counterpartys inability or failure to discharge its obligations under a contract.
The Group continually reviews its rating thresholds for relevant counterparty credit limits and updates these as necessary, based on a consistent set of principles.
It continues to operate within its limits.
In respect of trading activities for both the US and Europe, there is an effort to maintain a balance between exchange based trading and bilateral transactions.
This allows for a reasonable balance between counterparty credit risk and potential liquidity requirements.
In addition, the Group actively manages the trade-off between credit and liquidity risks by optimising the use of contracts with collateral obligations and physically settled contracts without collateral obligations.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 189 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S3.
Financial risk management The Group is exposed to credit risk in its treasury, trading, energy procurement and downstream activities.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for financial instruments at fair value is equal to their carrying value and is shown by counterparty credit rating in the table below.
Further details of other collateral and credit security not offset against these amounts is shown in note S6.
2018 2017 Financial assets at Financial assets at amortised cost Financial assets at fair value amortised cost Financial assets at fair value Receivables Receivables including including treasury, Derivative treasury, Derivative trading and financial trading and financial energy instruments energy instruments procurement Cash and cash Cash and cash with positive procurement Cash and cash Cash and cash with positive counterparties equivalents equivalents fair values counterparties equivalents equivalents fair values 31 December m m m m m m m m AAA to AA 82 -- - 781 13 78 2,024 --1 - 5 AA-- to - A-- - 580 454 -- - 655 379 799 --- 687 BBB to BBB-- - 601 15 -- - 738 279 27 --- 465 BB to BB-- - 375 -- - -- - 154 228 -- - --7 - 6 B or lower 15 -- - -- - 61 59 -- - --8 - 2 i Unrated 4,151 18 -- - 57 3,986 14 --6 - 5 5,804 487 781 1,678 5,009 2,864 --- 1,390 i The unrated counterparty receivables primarily comprise amounts due from downstream customers, subsidiaries of rated entities, exchanges or clearing houses.
Details of how credit risk is managed across the asset categories are provided below: a Treasury, trading and energy procurement activities Wholesale counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual counterparty and by category of credit rating, and are subject to approved limits.
The Group uses master netting agreements to reduce credit risk and net settles payments with counterparties where net settlement provisions exist see note S6 for details of amounts offset.
In addition, the Group employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit risk: margining, various forms of bank and parent company guarantees and letters of credit.
See note 24 c for details of cash posted or received under margin or collateral agreements.
100% of the Groups credit risk associated with its treasury, trading and energy procurement activities is with counterparties in related energy industries or with financial institutions.
The impairment considerations of IFRS 9 are applicable to financial assets arising from treasury, trading and energy procurement activities that are carried at amortised cost and equity instruments that are carried at FVOCI.
Equity instruments measured at FVOCI are not material for further disclosure.
Included in the table above within receivables including treasury, trading and energy procurement counterparties is 1,747 million of treasury, trading and energy procurement assets.
The Groups risk assessment procedures and counterparty selection process ensure that the credit risk on this type of financial asset is always low at initial recognition, and is expected to continue to be assessed as low throughout the asset life.
Therefore, the assumption that there has been no significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition applies, and accordingly the expected credit loss modelled is the 12-month expected credit loss, and is not material for further disclosure.
Included within the table above is information about the exposure to credit risk arising from only certain of the Groups energy procurement contracts under IFRS 9.
Whilst the Group manages the credit risk associated with both financial and non-financial energy procurement contracts, it is the carrying value of financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9 note S6 that represents the maximum exposure to credit risk in accordance with IFRS 7. b Trade receivables and contract assets The simplified approach of measuring lifetime expected credit losses has been applied to trade receivables and contract asset balances, which are the focus of this disclosure.
Therefore, consideration of the significance of any change in credit risk since initial recognition for the purpose of applying this model is not required for any material component of the receivables balance.
In the case of business customers, credit risk is managed by checking a companys creditworthiness and financial strength both before commencing trade and during the business relationship.
For residential customers, creditworthiness is ascertained normally before commencing trade to determine the payment mechanism required to reduce credit risk to an acceptable level.
Certain customers will only be accepted on a prepayment basis or with a security deposit.
In some cases, an ageing of receivables is monitored and used to manage the exposure to credit risk associated with both business and residential customers.
In other cases, credit risk is monitored and managed by grouping customers according to method of payment or profile.
A sensitivity analysis on the further credit deterioration of receivables greater than 90 days past their due date is provided in note 17.
Liquidity risk management and going concern Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group experiences significant movements in its liquidity position due primarily to the seasonal nature of its business and margin cash arrangements associated with certain wholesale commodity contracts.
To mitigate this risk the Group maintains significant committed facilities and holds cash on deposit.
See note 24 b for further information.
190 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S3.
Financial risk management Maturity profiles Maturities of derivative financial instruments, provisions, borrowings and finance leases are provided in the following tables all amounts are remaining contractual undiscounted cash flows : 1 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 5 year years years years years years Due for payment 2018 m m m m m m Energy and interest derivatives in a loss position that will be settled on a net basis 193 90 10 4 1 4 Gross energy procurement contracts and other derivative buy trades i carried at fair value 4,323 3,280 2,363 1,756 2,018 3,629 Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled on a gross basis: Outflow 4,630 1,001 910 120 2 61 Inflow 4,638 995 1,041 113 -- - 102 Financial liabilities within provisions 109 68 34 23 6 6 Borrowings bank loans, bonds, overdrafts and interest 435 267 875 472 401 4,669 ii Finance leases: Minimum lease payments 68 76 59 19 14 2 Capital elements of leases 59 68 57 19 13 2 1 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 5 year years years years years years Due for payment 2017 m m m m m m Energy and interest derivatives in a loss position that will be settled on a net basis 183 56 46 3 14 Gross energy procurement contracts and other derivative buy trades i carried at fair value 4,160 2,953 2,585 2,183 1,940 5,875 Foreign exchange derivatives that will be settled on a gross basis: Outflow 3,020 572 64 564 46 63 Inflow 3,00456657688 43101 Financial liabilities within provisions 99 39 33 23 25 34 Borrowings bank loans, bonds, overdrafts and interest 817 350 317 923 778 6,153 ii Finance leases: Minimum lease payments 60 64 65 54 13 12 Capital elements of leases 49 56 60 52 12 12 i Proprietary energy trades are excluded from this maturity analysis as the Group does not take physical delivery of volumes traded under these contracts.
The associated cash flows are expected to be equal to the contract fair value at the balance sheet date.
See note 19 for further details.
ii The difference between the total minimum lease payments and the total capital elements of leases is due to future finance charges.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 191 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S4.
Other equity This section summarises the Groups other equity reserve movements.
192 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S4.
Other equity Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income reserve On transition to IFRS 9, the Groups debt securities classified as available-for-sale were reclassified to FVTPL.
Historical gains related to the re-measurement of these instruments were transferred to retained earnings on 1 January 2018 and the balance remaining in the financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income reserve relates to revaluation of equity instruments previously classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39.
Merger, capital redemption and other reserves During February 1997, BG plc formerly British Gas plc demerged certain businesses grouped together under GB Gas Holdings Limited GBGH to form Centrica plc.
Upon demerger, the share capital of GBGH was transferred to Centrica plc and was recorded at the nominal value of shares issued to BG plc shareholders.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, no premium was recorded on the shares issued.
On consolidation, the difference between the nominal value of the Companys shares issued and the amount of share capital and share premium of GBGH at the date of demerger was credited to a merger reserve.
On 8 December 2017, the Groups existing Exploration & Production business was combined with that of Bayerngas Norge AS to form the Spirit Energy business.
The Group acquired 69% of the Spirit Energy business and Bayerngas Norges former shareholders acquired 31%.
The non-controlling interest established on acquisition has been based on its share of the carrying value of the combined business, with the other reserve representing the difference between the fair value and this carrying value.
During 2018 measurement period adjustments have updated the postings to the other reserve.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, the Company has transferred to the capital redemption reserve an amount equal to the nominal value of shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled.
Up to 31 December 2018 the cumulative nominal value of shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled was 26 million 2017: 26 million.
Own shares reserve The own shares reserve reflects the cost of shares in the Company held in the Centrica employee share ownership trusts to meet the future requirements of the Groups share-based payment plans.
Treasury shares reserve Treasury shares are acquired equity instruments of the Company.
Share-based payments reserve The share-based payments reserve reflects the obligation to deliver shares to employees under the Groups share schemes in return for services provided.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises exchange adjustments on the translation of the Groups foreign operations.
Historically the Group has hedged its net investments in these foreign operations and the opening balance of the foreign currency translation reserve includes exchange translation adjustments on borrowings and derivatives classified as net investment hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Note S5 provides further detail on historical net investment hedges.
Cash flow hedging reserve The cash flow hedging reserve comprises fair value movements on instruments designated as cash flow hedges under the requirements of IAS 39.
Amounts are transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve to the Group Income Statement or Group Balance Sheet as and when the hedged item affects the Group Income Statement or Group Balance Sheet which is, for the most part, on receipt or payment of amounts denominated in foreign currencies and settlement of interest on debt instruments.
Note S5 provides further detail on cash flow hedging.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 193 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S5.
Hedge accounting The Group applies hedge accounting to address interest rate and foreign currency risk on borrowings.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified either as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or, in previous periods, hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The fair values of derivatives and primary financial instruments in hedge accounting relationships at 31 December were as follows: 2018 2017 Change in Change in Assets Liabilities fair value Assets Liabilities fair value 31 December Hedge m m m m m m Interest rate risk Fair value 59 10 3 128 6 1 Foreign exchange risk Cash flow hedge 185 1 22 162 16 24 Cumulative Accumulated Change in amount of fair foreign fair value value hedge exchange Timing of of hedged item adjustments on gain losses in nominal amount Average rate Nominal value Hedged item in year hedged item CFHR i Hedge m m m Fixed to floating at LIBOR 50 million - ii Interest rate risk Fair value 2022 -- 2033 - 1% - 5% 550 million Bonds 2 28 N A GBP to Euro 50 million, Foreign exchange risk Cash flow hedge 2021 -- 2032 - at 1.356 750 million Euro bonds 12 N A 30 GBP to Yen Yen bank Cash flow hedge 2036 -- 2038 - at 151.49 20 billion loans 11 N A 17 i All amounts relate to continuing cash flow hedge relationships.
ii The carrying amount of bonds designated as hedged items in hedging relationships is disclosed in note 24.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are described below.
Fair value hedges A derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and its relationship to a recognised asset or liability is classified as a fair value hedge when it hedges the exposure to changes in the fair value of that recognised asset or liability.
The Groups fair value hedges consist of interest rate swaps used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate, long-term debt due to movements in market interest rates.
Any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument to fair value is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the Group Income Statement within net finance cost.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the Group Income Statement.
Amortisation may begin as soon as an adjustment exists and shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
Cash flow hedges A derivative is classified as a cash flow hedge when it hedges exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk either associated with a recognised asset, liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
The Groups cash flow hedges consist primarily of: forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability of functional currency denominated cash flows associated with non-functional currency denominated highly probable forecast transactions: and cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts used to protect against the variability in cash flows associated with borrowings denominated in non-functional currencies.
194 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S5.
Hedge accounting The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is effective is recognised directly in equity while any ineffectiveness is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
The gains or losses that are initially recognised in the cash flow hedging reserve in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income are transferred to the Group Income Statement in the same period in which the highly probable forecast transaction affects income.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability on its recognition.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, no longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs.
If the transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Note S4 details movements in the cash flow hedging reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains and losses on cash flow hedging is immaterial and is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Net investment hedges Historically the Group engaged in net investment hedging NIH whereby it would obtain foreign currency debt issued in the same currency as its net investment in a foreign operation.
Such hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
In 2009 the Group ceased to NIH, however the opening balance of the foreign currency translation reserve includes cumulative exchange translation adjustments on borrowings and derivatives classified as a NIH under the requirements of IAS 39.
These balances will be recycled to the Group Income Statement on disposal of the relevant foreign operation.
Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of a financial instrument is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The Group has documented internal policies for determining fair value, including methodologies used to establish valuation adjustments required for credit risk.
a Fair value hierarchy Financial assets and financial liabilities measured and held at fair value are classified into one of three categories, known as hierarchy levels, which are defined according to the inputs used to measure fair value as follows: Level 1: fair value is determined using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets and liabilities: Level 2: fair value is determined using significant inputs that may be directly observable inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data: and Level 3: fair value is determined using significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in managements best estimate of fair value.
2018 2017 Level 1 i Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 i Level 2 Level 3 Total 31 December m m m m m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments: Energy derivatives 6 1,248 150 1,404 2 1,014 56 1,068 Interest rate derivatives --5 - 9 --- 59 --- 128 --- 128 Foreign exchange derivatives -- - 215 -- - 215 --- 194 --- 194 Treasury gilts designated FVTPL 126 --- - -- 126 128 -- - - -- 128 ii Debt instruments 68---- -- 68 74 -- - - -7 - 4 iii Equity instruments 20--2- 5 45 31 -- 3 - 34 iv Cash and cash equivalents -- - 781 -- - 781 --- -- - - -- - -- Total financial assets at fair value 220 2,303 175 2,698 231 1,336 59 1,626 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Energy derivatives 42 1,390 59 1,491 60 845 33 938 Interest rate derivatives -- - 36 -- - 36 --- 34 --- 34 Foreign exchange derivatives -- - 39 -- - 39 --- 48 --- 48 Total financial liabilities at fair value 42 1,465 59 1,566 60 927 33 1,020 i In 2017, Level 1 energy derivative assets included liabilities of 6 million, which were presented within derivative assets on the Group Balance Sheet, as a result of being netted off the associated Level 2 trades with the same commodity instrument type.
ii Certain of the Groups debt instrument assets have been classified as FVTPL on adoption of IFRS 9.
In prior periods similar items were classified as available-for-sale.
iii The Groups equity instrument assets have been designated as FVOCI on adoption of IFRS 9.
iv Certain cash and cash equivalents have been classified as FVTPL on adoption of IFRS 9.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 195 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S6.
Fair value of financial instruments The reconciliation of the Level 3 fair value measurements during the year is as follows: 2018 2017 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Level 3 financial instruments 1 January 59 33 44 63 Total realised and unrealised gains losses : Recognised in Group Income Statement 79 11 19 Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements net 24 4 18 9 i Transfers between Level 2 and Level 3 12 8 3 30 Foreign exchange movements 1 3 1 --- 31 December 175 59 59 33 Total gains losses for the year for Level 3 financial instruments held at the end of the reporting year 71 32 19 15 i Transfers between levels are deemed to occur at the beginning of the reporting period.
b Valuation techniques used to derive Level 2 and Level 3 fair values and Group valuation process Level 2 interest rate derivatives and foreign exchange derivatives comprise interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate swaps are fair valued using forward interest rates extracted from observable yield curves.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market, with the resulting market value discounted back to present value using observable yield curves.
Level 2 energy derivatives are fair valued by comparing and discounting the difference between the expected contractual cash flows for the relevant commodities and the quoted prices for those commodities in an active market.
The average discount rate applied to value this type of contract during the period was 1% Europe and 3% North America per annum 31 December 2017 average discount rate of 1% Europe and 3% North America per annum.
For Level 3 energy derivatives, the main input used by the Group pertains to deriving expected future commodity prices in markets that are not active as far into the future as some of our contractual terms.
This applies to certain contracts within Europe and North America.
Fair values are then calculated by comparing and discounting the difference between the expected contractual cash flows and these derived future prices using an average discount rate of 2% Europe and 3% North America per annum 31 December 2017 average discount rate of 1% Europe and 3% North America per annum.
Active period of markets Gas Power Coal Emissions Oil UK years 3 3 3 3 3 North America years 5 Up to 5 N A Up to 5 3 Because the Level 3 energy derivative valuations involve the prediction of future commodity market prices, sometimes a long way into the future, reasonably possible alternative assumptions for gas, power, coal, emissions or oil prices may result in a higher or lower fair value for Level 3 financial instruments.
Given the relative size of the volumetric exposures and these fair values, it is unlikely that the impact of these reasonably possible changes would be significant when judged in relation to the Groups profit and loss or total asset value.
It should be noted that the fair values disclosed in the tables above only concern those contracts entered into which are within the scope of IFRS 9.
The Group has numerous other commodity contracts which are outside of the scope of IFRS 9 and are not fair valued.
The Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing as the Groups portfolio of energy contracts changes.
The Groups valuation process includes specific teams of individuals that perform valuations of the Groups derivatives for financial reporting purposes, including Level 3 valuations.
The Group has an independent team that derives future commodity price curves based on available external data and these prices feed in to the energy derivative valuations, subject to adjustments to ensure they are compliant with IFRS 13: Fair value measurement.
The price curves are subject to review and approval by the Groups Executive Committee and valuations of all derivatives, together with other contracts that are not within the scope of IFRS 9, are also reviewed regularly as part of the overall risk management process.
Where the fair value at initial recognition for contracts which extend beyond the active period differs from the transaction price, a day-one gain or loss will arise.
Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to the Group Income Statement based on volumes purchased or delivered over the contractual period until such time as observable market data becomes available see note S2 for further detail.
The amount that has yet to be recognised in the Group Income Statement relating to the differences between the transaction prices and the amounts that would have arisen had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is immaterial.
196 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S6.
Fair value of financial instruments c Fair value of financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost The carrying value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost are approximately equal to their fair value except as listed below: 2018 2017 Carrying value Fair value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Fair value 31 December Notes m m hierarchy m m hierarchy Bank loans 149 165 Level 2 138 203 Level 2 24 d Bonds Level 1 24 d 4,057 4,432 Level 1 5,573 6,311 Level 1 Level 2 105 128 Level 2 99 126 Level 2 24 d Obligations under finance leases 218 226 Level 2 241 250 Level 2 24 d Financial liabilities The fair values of bonds classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy are calculated using quoted market prices.
The fair values of Level 2 bonds and bank loans have been determined by discounting cash flows with reference to relevant market rates of interest.
The fair values of overdrafts and short-term loans are assumed to equal their book values due to the short-term nature of these amounts.
The fair values of obligations under finance leases have been determined by discounting contractual cash flows with reference to the Groups cost of borrowing.
Other financial instruments Due to their nature and or short-term maturity, the fair values of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and provisions are estimated to approximate their carrying values.
d Financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, master netting arrangements and similar arrangements Related amounts not offset in the Group Balance Sheet i Gross amounts of Gross amounts recognised financial Net amounts of recognised instruments offset presented financial in the Group in the Group Financial instruments Balance Sheet Balance Sheet instruments Collateral Net amount 31 December 2018 m m m m m m Derivative financial assets 7,630 5,952 1,678 292 157 1,229 Derivative financial liabilities 7,518 5,952 1,566 292 472 802 112 427 Balances arising from commodity contracts: Accrued and unbilled downstream and energy income 6,994 4,129 2,865 264 -- - 2,601 Accruals for commodity costs 6,604 4,129 2,475 264 -- - 2,211 Cash and financing arrangements: Cash and cash equivalents 1,289 21 1,268 140 -- - 1,128 Bank loans and overdrafts 310 21 289 140 -- - 149 Securities 307 -- - 307 -- - 26 281 Related amounts not offset in the Group Balance Sheet i Gross amounts of Gross amounts recognised financial Net amounts of recognised instruments offset presented financial in the Group in the Group Financial instruments Balance Sheet Balance Sheet instruments Collateral Net amount 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Derivative financial assets 8,656 7,266 1,390 234 29 1,127 Derivative financial liabilities 8,286 7,266 1,020 234 282 504 370 623 Balances arising from commodity contracts: Accrued and unbilled downstream and energy income 6,028 3,753 2,275 92 -- - 2,183 Accruals for commodity costs 5,529 3,753 1,776 92 --- 1,684 Cash and financing arrangements: Cash and cash equivalents 2,880 16 2,864 127 --- 2,737 Bank loans and overdrafts 281 16 265 127 --- 138 Securities 236--- 236 -- 29 - 207 i The Group has arrangements in place with various counterparties in respect of commodity trades which provide for a single net settlement of all financial instruments covered by the arrangement in the event of default or termination, or other circumstances arising whereby either party is unable to meet its obligations.
The above table shows the potential impact of these arrangements being enforced by offsetting the relevant amounts within each Group Balance Sheet class of asset or liability, but does not show the impact of offsetting across Group Balance Sheet classes where the offsetting Group Balance Sheet class is not included within the above table.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 197 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S7.
Fixed-fee service and insurance contracts This section includes fixed-fee service FFS and insurance contract disclosures for services related to UK Home and North America Home.
FFS contracts in North America are entered into with home and business services customers.
Insurance contracts in North America are entered into with home services customers.
FFS contracts in the UK are entered into with home services customers by British Gas Services Limited BGSL and with business customers by British Gas Services Commercial Limited.
Insurance contracts in the UK are entered into with home services customers by British Gas Insurance Limited BGIL, authorised by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA.
Product offerings include central heating, boiler and controls, plumbing and drains and electrical appliance insurance cover.
FFS contracts continue until cancelled by either party: insurance contracts normally provide cover for 12 months with the option of renewal.
The contracts which protect policyholders against the risk of breakdowns result in the transfer of risk to the contract provider.
Benefits provided to customers vary in accordance with terms and conditions of the contracts entered into.
However, they generally include maintenance, repair and or replacement of the items affected.
The levels of risk exposure and service provision to customers under the contract terms are dependent on the occurrence of uncertain future events, in particular the nature and frequency of faults, and the cost of repair or replacement of the items affected.
Accordingly, the timing and amount of future cash outflows associated with the contracts is uncertain.
The key terms and conditions that affect future cash flows are as follows: provision of labour and parts for repairs, dependent on the agreement and associated level of service: a specified number of safety and maintenance inspections are carried out as set out in the agreement usually once a year : no limit to the number of call-outs to carry out repair work: and limits on certain maintenance and repair costs.
Revenue is recognised over the life of contracts having regard to the incidence of risk, in particular the seasonal propensity of claims which span the life of the contract as a result of emergency maintenance being available throughout the contract term.
Costs incurred to settle claims represent principally the engineer workforce employed by the Group within home services and the cost of parts utilised in repair or maintenance.
These costs are accounted for over a 12-month period with adjustments made to reflect the seasonality of workload over a given year.
Weather conditions and the seasonality of repairs both affect the profile of the workload and associated costs incurred across the year.
The risk exposure of these uncertain events is actively managed by undertaking the following risk mitigation activities: an initial service visit is provided to customers taking up most central heating contracts and in some instances pre-existing faults may lead to the contract being cancelled and no further cover being provided: an annual maintenance inspection is performed as part of most central heating contracts to help identify and prevent issues developing into significant maintenance or breakdown claims: and contract limits are applied to certain types of maintenance and repair work considered to be higher risk in terms of frequency and cost.
The costs of FFS claims and insurance claims incurred during the year were 18 million 2017: 44 million and 398 million 2017: 389 million respectively and are included in the table below in Expenses relating to FFS and insurance contracts.
All claims are settled immediately and in full.
Due to the short average lead time between claims occurrence and settlement, no material provisions were outstanding at the balance sheet date 2017: nil.
2017 2018 restated i m m Total revenue 1,142 1,154 Expenses relating to FFS and insurance contracts 1,019 992 Deferred income 83 88 Accrued income 32 31 i Prior year total revenue has been restated following work performed on re-analysing certain service contract income under IFRS 15.
The Group considers whether estimated future cash flows under the contracts will be sufficient to meet expected future costs.
Any deficiency is charged immediately to the Group Income Statement.
Claims frequency is sensitive to the reliability of appliances as well as the impact of weather conditions.
The contracts are not exposed to any interest rate risk or significant credit risk and do not contain any embedded derivatives.
198 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S8.
Related party transactions The Groups principal related party is its investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited, which owns the existing EDF UK nuclear fleet.
The disclosures below, including comparatives, only refer to related parties that were related in the current reporting period.
During the year, the Group entered into the following arms length transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group, and had the following associated balances: 2018 2017 Purchase Purchase of goods Amounts of goods Amounts and services owed to and services owed to m m m m Associates: Nuclear 476 42 527 40 Joint Ventures 17 2 ------ 493 44 527 40 During the year, there were no material changes to commitments in relation to joint ventures and associates.
At the balance sheet date, the Group committed facilities to the Lake Acquisition Group totalling 120 million, although nothing has been drawn at 31 December 2018.
Key management personnel comprise members of the Board and Executive Committee, a total of 18 individuals at 31 December 2018 2017: 18.
Remuneration of key management personnel 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Short-term benefits 10.1 9.8 Post-employment benefits 1.2 1.3 Share-based payments 1.6 4.8 12.9 15.9 Remuneration of the Directors of Centrica plc 2018 2017 restated i Year ended 31 December m m ii Total emoluments 6.0 4.0 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 0.9 1.8 Contributions into pension schemes 0.7 0.8 i 2017 comparatives have been restated.
Further detail is provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 103. ii These emoluments were paid for services performed on behalf of the Group.
No emoluments related specifically to services performed for the Company.
Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys individual and consolidated: i Financial Statements 5.6 5.5 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.7 1.7 Total fees related to the audit of the parent and subsidiary entities 7.3 7.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: Audit-related assurance services 0.8 1.2 All other services 0.4 0.8 8.5 9.2 ii Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.1 0.1 i Including 0.3 million 2017: 0.3 million for the audit of the Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement.
ii The pension scheme audit continues to be performed by  LLP.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 199 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S10.
Related undertakings The Group has a large number of related undertakings principally in the UK, US, Norway, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and the Republic of Ireland.
a Subsidiary undertakings Investments held directly by Centrica plc with 100% voting rights Country of incorporation 31 December 2018 Principal activity registered address key i Class of shares held Centrica Beta Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Trading Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Investments held indirectly by Centrica plc with 100% voting rights Country of incorporation 31 December 2018 Principal activity registered address key i Class of shares held 1773648 Alberta Ltd. Gas and or oil exploration and production and Canada B Ordinary shares or trading Accord Energy Trading Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Accord Energy Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Airtron Inc. Home and or commercial services United States C Ordinary shares Alertme.
com GmbH Non-trading Germany D Ordinary shares Alertme.
com Inc. Energy management products and services United States E Ordinary shares Astrum Solar Inc. Home and or commercial services United States F Ordinary shares Atform Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares AWHR Americas Water Heater Rentals LLC Home and or commercial services United States C Membership interest Benjamin Franklin Franchising LLC Home and or commercial services United States G Membership interest Bord Gis Energy Limited Energy supply and power generation Republic of Ireland H Ordinary shares Bounce Energy Inc. Energy supply United States C Ordinary shares Brae Canada Ltd. Gas and or oil exploration and production Canada B Ordinary and preference shares British Gas Energy Procurement Limited Energy supply United Kingdom A Ordinary shares British Gas Finance Limited Vehicle leasing United Kingdom A Ordinary shares British Gas Insurance Limited Insurance provision United Kingdom A Ordinary shares British Gas Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares British Gas New Heating Limited Electrical and gas installations United Kingdom A Ordinary shares British Gas Services Commercial Limited Servicing and installation of heating systems United Kingdom A Ordinary shares British Gas Services Limited Home services United Kingdom A Ordinary shares British Gas Social Housing Limited Servicing and installation of heating systems United Kingdom A Ordinary shares British Gas Solar Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares British Gas Trading Limited Energy supply United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Business Gas Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares BuyMax LLC Home and or commercial services United States G Membership interest Caythorpe Gas Storage Limited Gas storage United Kingdom I Ordinary shares ii CBS US Solar Fund 1, LLC Distributed energy and power United States C Membership interest Centrica IOM Limited Dormant Isle of Man J Ordinary shares 200 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S10.
Related undertakings Country of incorporation 31 December 2018 Principal activity registered address key i Class of shares held Centrica Lincs Wind Farm Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Alpha Finance Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica America Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Barry Limited Power generation United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Brigg Limited Power generation United Kingdom A Ordinary shares iii Centrica Business Solutions Generation Limited Power generation United Kingdom A Ordinary shares iii Centrica Business Solutions BV Energy management products and services Netherlands Y Ordinary shares iii Centrica Business Solutions Canada Inc Energy management products and services Canada B Ordinary shares iii Centrica Business Solutions International Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares iii Centrica Business Solutions Italia Srl Energy management products and services Italy X Ordinary shares ii Centrica Business Solutions Mxico S. A. fide C. V. Energy management products and services Mexico BF Ordinary shares iii Centrica Business Solutions UK Limited Energy management products and services United Kingdom A Ordinary shares iii Centrica Business Solutions US Inc Energy management products and services United States C Ordinary shares iii Centrica Business Solutions Zrt Energy management products and services Hungary W Ordinary shares Centrica Combined Common Investment Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Fund Limited Centrica Delta Limited Dormant Isle of Man L Ordinary shares Centrica Directors Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Distributed Generation Limited Power generation United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Energy Trading Limited Wholesale energy trading United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Energy Limited Wholesale energy trading United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Energy Marketing Limited Wholesale energy trading United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Energy Operations Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Energy Renewable Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Investments Limited Centrica Engineers Pension Trustees Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Finance Canada Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Finance Scotland Limited Holding company United Kingdom BD Ordinary shares Centrica Finance US Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Finance Investments Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Finance Norway Limited Group financing Jersey O Ordinary shares Centrica Gamma Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares iii Centrica Hive Canada Inc. Energy management products and services Canada B Ordinary shares iii Centrica Hive Limited Energy management products and services United Kingdom A Ordinary shares ii Centrica Hive SAS Energy management products and services France BE Ordinary shares iii Centrica Hive Srl Energy management products and services Italy K Ordinary shares iii Centrica Hive US Inc. Energy management products and services United States C Ordinary shares Centrica HoldCo GP LLC Holding company United States C Membership interest Centrica Ignite GP Limited Investment company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Ignite LP Limited Investment company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica India Offshore Private Limited Business services India P Ordinary shares Centrica Infrastructure Limited Dormant United Kingdom BD Ordinary shares Centrica Innovations UK Limited Investment company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Innovations US Inc. Investment company United States C Ordinary shares Centrica Insurance Company Limited Insurance provision Isle of Man J Ordinary and preference shares iv Centrica International BV Group financingNetherlands M Ordinary shares Centrica Jersey Limited Dormant Jersey Q Ordinary shares Centrica KL Limited Power generation United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica KPS Limited Power generation United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Lake Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Leasing KL Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica LNG Company Limited LNG trading United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 201 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S10.
Related undertakings Country of incorporation 31 December 2018 Principal activity registered address key i Class of shares held Centrica LNG UK Limited LNG trading United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Nederland BV Holding company Netherlands M Ordinary shares Centrica NewCo 123 Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Nigeria Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica No.
12 Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Nominees No.
1 Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Offshore UK Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom I Ordinary shares Centrica Onshore Processing UK Limited Dormant United Kingdom I Ordinary shares Centrica Overseas Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica PB Limited Power generation United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Pension Plan Trustees Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Limited by guarantee Centrica Pension Trustees Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Production Limited Dormant United Kingdom N Ordinary shares Centrica Renewable Energy Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Resources Nigeria Limited Non-trading Nigeria R Ordinary shares Centrica Resources UK Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Resources Petroleum UK Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Secretaries Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Services Limited Business servicesUnited Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Storage Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom I Ordinary shares Centrica Storage Limited Gas production and processing United Kingdom I Ordinary shares Centrica Trinidad and Tobago Limited Business services Trinidad and Ordinary shares Tobago S Centrica Trust No.
1 Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Centrica Upstream Investment Limited Dormant United Kingdom N Ordinary shares Centrica US Holdings Inc. Holding company United States C Ordinary shares CH4 Energy Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares CID1 Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares CIU1 Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Clockwork Acquisition II Inc. Home and or commercial services United States C Ordinary shares Clockwork Inc. Home and or commercial services United States C Ordinary shares Clockwork IP LLC Holding company United States C Membership interest CSA Offshore Services Proprietary Limited Business services South Africa T Ordinary shares DEML Investments Limited Holding company Canada U Ordinary shares DER Development No.
10 Ltd. Holding company Canada B Ordinary shares Direct Energy B. C. Limited Energy supply and or services Canada V Ordinary shares Direct Energy Business LLC Energy supply and or services United States C Membership interest v Direct Energy Business Marketing LLC Energy supply and or services United States C Membership interest Direct Energy GP LLC Holding company United States C Membership interest Direct Energy Holdings Alberta Inc. Home and or commercial services Canada B Ordinary shares Direct Energy HVAC Services Ltd. Home and or commercial services Canada B Ordinary shares Direct Energy Leasing LLC Home and or commercial services United States C Membership interest Direct Energy Marketing Inc. Wholesale energy trading United States C Ordinary and preference shares Direct Energy Marketing Limited Energy supply and or services Canada U Ordinary shares Direct Energy Operations LLC Energy supply and or services United States C Membership interest Direct Energy Services LLC Energy supply and or services United States C Membership interest Direct Energy Services Retail Inc. Home and or commercial services United States C Ordinary shares Direct Energy US Home Services Inc. Home and or commercial services United States C Ordinary shares Distributed Energy Asset Solutions Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Distributed Energy Customer Solutions Limited Energy Management products and services United Kingdom A Ordinary shares 202 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S10.
Related undertakings Country of incorporation 31 December 2018 Principal activity registered address key i Class of shares held Drips Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Dyno Developments Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Dyno-Plumbing Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Dyno-Rod Limited Operation of a franchise network United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Dyno-Security Services Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Dyno-Services Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares ECL Contracts Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares ECL Investments Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Electricity Direct UK Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares ENER-G Cogen International Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares ENER-G Nagykanizsa Kft Energy management products and services Hungary W Ordinary shares ENER-G Power2 Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares ENER-G Rudox LLC Energy management products and services United States C Membership interest ENER-G Technologii Energetice Srl Energy management products and services Romania AA Ordinary shares Energy For Tomorrow Not-for-profit energy services United Kingdom A Limited by guarantee First Choice Power LLC Energy supply and or services United States AB Membership interest Flowgem Limited In liquidation United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Gateway Energy Services Corporation Energy supply United States AC Ordinary shares GB Gas Holdings Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Generation Green Solar Limited Dormant community benefit society United Kingdom A Ordinary shares vi GF One Limited In liquidationUnited Kingdom AD Ordinary shares vi GF Two Limited In liquidationUnited Kingdom AD Ordinary shares Goldbrand Development Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Hillserve Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Home Assistance UK Limited Non-trading United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Home Warranty Holdings Corp. Insurance provision United States C Ordinary shares vii Home Warranty of America Inc. Home and or commercial services United States AE Ordinary shares vii Home Warranty of America Inc. Home and or commercial services United States AF Ordinary shares Io-Tahoe LLC Data management United States C Membership interest Io-Tahoe UK Limited Data management United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Io Tahoe Ukraine LLC Data managementUkraine AG Ordinary shares Masters Inc. Home and or commercial services United States F Ordinary shares Mister Sparky Franchising LLC Home and or commercial services United States AH Membership interest Neas Energy A S Energy services and wholesale energy trading Denmark AI Ordinary shares Neas Energy GmbH Energy services and wholesale energy trading Germany AJ Ordinary shares Neas Energy Limited Energy services and wholesale energy trading United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Neas Energy Singapore Pte.
Ltd Energy services and wholesale energy trading Singapore AK Ordinary shares Neas Fondsmglerselskab A S Non-trading Denmark AI Ordinary shares Neas Invest A S Dormant Denmark AI Ordinary shares Newco One Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares New Millennium Academy LLC Home and or commercial services United States G Membership interest North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited Dormant United Kingdom BD Ordinary shares NSIP Holdings Limited Dormant United Kingdom BD Ordinary shares One Hour Air Conditioning Franchising LLC Home and or commercial services United States AH Membership interest P. H. Jones Facilities Management Ltd Servicing and maintenance of heating systems United Kingdom A Ordinary shares P. H Jones Group Limited Holding company United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Panoramic Power Ltd. Energy management products and services Israel AL Ordinary shares Pioneer Shipping Limited Sea freight water transport United Kingdom A Ordinary Shares Quality A C Service LLC Home and or commercial services United States AM Membership interest Repair and Care Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares REstore Deutschland GmbH Demand response aggregationGermany AN Ordinary shares Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 203 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S10.
Related undertakings Country of incorporation 31 December 2018 Principal activity registered address key i Class of shares held REstore Flexpond UK Limited Demand response aggregation United Kingdom A Ordinary shares REstore France SAS Demand response aggregationFrance AP Ordinary shares REstore North America LLC Demand response aggregation United States AQ Membership interest REstore NV Demand response aggregationBelgium AR Ordinary shares RSG Holding Corp. Holding company United States C Ordinary shares Solar Technologies Group Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Solar Technologies Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares Soren Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares SuccessWare Inc. Home and or commercial services United States G Ordinary shares ii T. A. Kaiser Heating & Air, Inc Home and or commercial services United States BG Ordinary shares UWIN LLC Home and or commercial services United States AH Membership interest ii Victorville Energy Center, LLC Distributed energy and power United States C Membership interest ii Vista Solar, Inc Distributed energy and power United States BH Ordinary shares Investments held indirectly by Centrica plc with 69% voting rights Country of incorporation 31 December 2018 Principal activity registered address key i Class of shares held Bayerngas Norge AS Gas and or oil exploration and production Norway AS Ordinary shares Bayerngas Produksjon Norge AS Finance companyNorway AS Ordinary shares Bowland Resources No.
2 Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares Bowland Resources Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares Elswick Energy Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares NSGP Ensign Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production Jersey AT Ordinary shares Spirit Energy Danmark ApS Gas and or oil exploration and production Denmark AU Ordinary shares Spirit Energy Hedging Holding Limited DormantUnited Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares Spirit Energy Hedging Limited DormantUnited Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares viii Spirit Energy Limited Holding company United Kingdom BJ Ordinary and deferred shares Spirit Energy Nederland BV Gas and or oil exploration and production Netherlands M Ordinary shares Spirit Energy Norge AS Gas and or oil exploration and production Norway AV Ordinary shares Spirit Energy North Sea Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares Spirit Energy North Sea Oil Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom N Ordinary shares ix Spirit Energy Petroleum Danmark AS Gas and or oil exploration and production Norway AS Ordinary shares Spirit Energy Production UK Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares Spirit Energy Resources Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares Spirit Energy Southern North Sea Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares Spirit Energy Treasury Limited Finance company United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares ii Spirit Energy WOS Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares x Spirit Europe Limited Holding company United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares Spirit Infrastructure BV Construction, ownership and exploitation of infrastructure Netherlands M Ordinary shares Spirit North Sea Gas Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom N Ordinary shares Spirit Norway Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares Spirit Production Services Limited Business servicesUnited Kingdom N Ordinary shares Spirit Resources Armada Limited Gas and or oil exploration and production United Kingdom BJ Ordinary shares i For list of registered addresses, refer to note S10 d. ii Acquired or established in 2018. iii The following name changes were made during the year: Combined Power South Limited to Centrica Business Solutions Generation Limited: ENER-G Nedale BV to Centrica Business Solutions BV: Distributed Energy Canada Inc to Centrica Business Solutions Canada Inc: GLID Limited to Centrica Business Solutions International Limited: ENER-G Italia Srl to Centrica Business Solutions Italia Srl: ENER-G Combined Power Limited to Centrica Business Solutions UK Limited: Distributed Energy US Inc to Centrica Business Solutions US Inc: ENER-G Energia Technologia Zrt to Centrica Business Solutions Zrt: Centrica Connected Home Canada Inc to Centrica Hive Canada Inc: Centrica Connected Home Limited to Centrica Hive Limited: Centrica Connected Home Italy Srl to Centrica Hive Srl and Centrica Connected Home US Inc to Centrica Hive US Inc. iv Centrica International BV merged with Centrica International C BV on 27 November 2018. v NJR Retail Services Company was acquired in February 2018 and changed its name to Direct Energy RS Gas Inc in May 2018.
On 30 November 2018 it was merged with Direct Energy Business Marketing LLC.
vi GF One Limited and GF Two Limited are 75% indirectly owned by Centrica plc.
vii Home Warranty of America Inc. is registered as separate entities in the states of California and Illinois.
viii Spirit Energy Limited changed the class of shares held from ordinary and preference shares to ordinary and deferred shares during 2018. ix Spirit Energy Petroleum Danmark AS principally operates in Denmark.
x Spirit Europe Limited was renamed during the year previously Spirit Europe Ltd. 204 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S10.
Related undertakings b Subsidiary undertakings -- - partnerships held indirectly by Centrica plc with 100% voting rights Country of incorporation 31 December 2018 Principal activity registered address key i Class of shares held CF 2016 LLP Group financing United Kingdom A Membership interest CFCEPS LLP Group financing United Kingdom A Membership interest CFCPP LLP Group financing United Kingdom A Membership interest CPL Retail Energy LP Energy supply United States C Membership interest Direct Energy LP Energy supply United States AB Membership interest Direct Energy Partnership Energy supply Canada B Membership interest Direct Energy Resources Partnership Holding entity Canada B Membership interest Finance Scotland 2016 Limited Partnership Group financing United Kingdom N Membership interest Finance Scotland CEPS Limited Partnership Group financing United Kingdom N Membership interest Finance Scotland CPP Limited Partnership Group financing United Kingdom N Membership interest Ignite Social Enterprise LP Social enterprise investment fund United Kingdom A Membership interest WTU Retail Energy LP Energy supply United States C Membership interest i For list of registered addresses, refer to note S10 d. The following partnerships are fully consolidated into the Group Financial Statements and the Group has taken advantage of the exemption as confirmed by regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 not to prepare or file separate accounts for these entities: Finance Scotland 2016 Limited Partnership: Finance Scotland CEPS Limited Partnership: Finance Scotland CPP Limited Partnership: Finance Scotland CPS Limited Partnership: and Ignite Social Enterprise LP.
c Joint arrangements and associates Indirect interest and Country of incorporation voting rights 31 December 2018 Principal activity registered address key i Class of shares held % ii Joint ventures Allegheny Solar 1 LLC Energy supply and or services United States AX Membership interest 40.0% iii Barrow Shipping Limited Energy supply and or services United Kingdom BI Ordinary shares 50.0% Celtic Array Limited Development of an offshore windfarm United Kingdom A Ordinary shares 50.0% Eurowind Polska VI Sp z. o. o.
Operation of an onshore windfarm Poland AY Ordinary shares 50.0% Greener Ideas Limited Development of flexible power Republic of Ireland AZ Ordinary shares 50.0% generation sites Rhiannon Wind Farm Limited Dormant United Kingdom A Ordinary shares 50.0% Three Rivers Solar 1 LLC Energy supply and or services United States AX Membership interest 40.0% Three Rivers Solar 2 LLC Energy supply and or services United States AX Membership interest 40.0% Three Rivers Solar 3 LLC Energy supply and or services United States AX Membership interest 40.0% Vindpark Keblowo ApS Operation of an onshore windfarm Denmark BA Ordinary shares 50.0% ii Associates Lake Acquisitions Limited Holding company United Kingdom BB Ordinary shares 20.0% Veolia CHP Ireland Limited Energy supply and power generation Republic of Ireland BC Ordinary shares 20.0% i For list of registered addresses, refer to note S10 d. ii Further information on the principal joint ventures and associate investments held by the Group is disclosed in notes 6 and 14. iii Acquired in 2018.
All Group companies principally operate within their country of incorporation unless noted otherwise.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 205 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S10.
Related undertakings d List of registered addresses Registered address key Address i A Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor, SL4 5GD, United Kingdom B 2323 32nd Avenue N. E. Suite 260, Calgary, AB T2E 6Z3, Canada C 3411 Silverside Road, Suite 104, Tatnall Building, Wilmington, fide 19810, United States D Thomas-Wimmer-Ring 1-3, 80539, Munich, Germany E 1521 Concord Pike #303, Wilmington, fide 19803, United States F 2 Wisconsin Circle #700, Chevy Chase, MD 20815, United States G 12747 Olive Boulevard #300, Jefferson City, MO 63141, United States H 1 Warrington Place, Dublin 2, Republic of Ireland I Woodland House, Woodland Park, Hessle, HU13 0FA, United Kingdom J St Georges Court, Upper Church Street, Douglas, IM1 1EE, Isle of Man K Via Paleocapa Pietro 4, 20121, Milano, Italy L 33-37 Athol Street, Douglas, IM1 1LB, Isle of Man M Polarisavenue 39, 2132 JH Hoofddorp, Netherlands N IQ Building, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, United Kingdom O 47 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 0BD, Jersey P G-74, LGF, Kalkaji, New Delhi, South Delhi, Delhi, 110019, India Q 26 New Street, St Helier, JE2 3RA, Jersey R Sterling Towers, 20 Marina, Lagos, Nigeria S 48-50 Sackville Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago T No.
12A Sooty Street, Cnr Reddersburg & Virginia Street, Amberfield Glen, Rooihuiskraal, North Centurion Gauteng, 0175, South Africa U 333 Bay Street, Suite 400, Toronto ON, M5H 2R2, Canada V 1185 West Georgia Street, Suite 1700, Vancouver BC, V6E 4E6, Canada W H-1106 Budapest Jszbernyi t 24-36, Hungary X Milan MI, Via Emilio Cornalia 26, Italy Y Wiegerbruinlaan 2A, 1422 CB Uithoorn, Netherlands Z 811 Church Road #105, Cherry Hill NJ, 08002, United States AA 15-23 Bucuresti Nord Street, Windsor Building, Ground Floor, Office No.
1 Voluntari, Ilfov County, Romania AB 2425 W. Loop South, #200, TX 77027, United States AC 15 North Mill Street, Nyack, NY 10960, United States AD 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, United Kingdom AE 1430 Truxtun Avenue, 5th floor, Bakersfield, CA 93301, United States AF 350 S. Northwest Highway #300, Park Ridge, IL 60068, United States AG 20 A Heroiev Stalingrada Avenue, Kyiv 04210, Ukraine AH 11380 Prosperity Farms Road #221E, Palm Beach Gardens, FL 33410, United States AI Skelagervej 1, DK 9000 Aalborg, Denmark AJ Schillerstr.
7, 40721 Hilden bei Dsseldorf, Germany AK 220 Orchard Road, #05-01 Midpoint Orchard, Singapore 238852, Republic of Singapore AL 15 Atir Yeda Street, Kfar Saba, 44643, Israel AM 8275 South Eastern Avenue #200, Las Vegas, NV 89123, United States AN Graf-Adolf-Platz 12, 40213 Dsseldorf, Germany AO 1 Glass Wharf, Bristol, BS2 0ZX, United Kingdom AP Place fide la Dfense 12, Maison fide la Dfense, 92974 Paris, France AQ WTS LLC, 67 East Park Place, Morristown, New Jersey 07960, United States AR Posthofbrug 12, 2600 Antwerp, Belgium AS Lilleakerveien 8, 0283 Oslo, Norway AT 13 Castle Street, St Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey AU Rdhuspladsen 16, 1550 Kbenhaven V, Denmark AV Veritasvien 25, 4007 Stavanger, Norway AW 160 London Road, Suite 4a London Road, Sevenoaks, Kent, TN13 1BT, United Kingdom AX 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, fide 19801, United States AY Ul.
Wysogotowska 23, 62-081 Przezmierowo, Wielkpolskie, Poland AZ Webworks, Eglinton Street, Cork, Republic of Ireland BA Mariagervej 58B, DK 9500 Hobro, Denmark BB 90 Whitfield Street, London, W1T 4EZ, United Kingdom BC Innovation House, DCU Innovation Campus, 11 Old Finglas Road, Glasnevin, Dublin 11, Republic of Ireland 206 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 S10.
Related undertakings Registered address key Address ii BD 1 Waterfront Avenue, Edinburgh, Scotland EH5 1SG BE 3 Boulevard fide Sebastopol, 75001, Paris, France BF Av.
Presidente Masaryk No 61 Int 503 Col Chapultepec Morales, Miguel Hidalgo Ciudad fide Mexico, Mexico 11570 BG 1657 Commerce Drive #9B, South Bend, Indiana 46628, United States BH 4640 Admiralty Way, 5th floor, Marine del Rey, California 90292, United States BI C O Wilkin Chapman LLP, The Maltings, 11-15 Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln, LN5 7AY, United Kingdom iii iv BJ First Floor, 20 Kingston Road, Staines-upon-Thames, TW18 4LG, United Kingdom i Restore Flexpond UK Limited changed its registered office on 9 January 2019 from 1 Glass Wharf, Bristol, BS2 OZX, United Kingdom to the address listed above.
ii North Sea Infrastructure Partners Limited and NSIP Holdings Limited changed its registered office during the year from IQ Building, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ to the address listed above.
2 Limited, Bowland Resources Limited, Elswick Energy Limited, Spirit Energy Hedging Holding Limited, Spirit Energy Hedging Limited, Spirit Energy Limited, Spirit Energy North Sea Limited, Spirit Energy Production UK Limited, Spirit Energy Resources Limited, Spirit Energy Treasury Limited, Spirit Energy WOS Limited, Spirit Norway Limited and Spirit Resources Armada Limited changed their registered address on 30 January 2019 from Millstream, Maidenhead Road, Windsor, SL4 5GD to the address listed above.
iv Spirit Energy Southern North Sea Limited and Spirit Europe Limited changed their registered address on 30 January 2019 from 160 London Road, Suite 4a London Road, Sevenoaks, Kent, TN13 1BT to the address listed above.
e Summarised financial information Material associates and joint arrangements Management has determined that the investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited is sufficiently material to warrant further disclosure on an individual basis.
Accordingly, the Group presents summarised financial information, along with reconciliations to the amounts included in the consolidated Group Financial Statements, for this investee.
Lake Acquisitions Limited Summarised statement of total comprehensive income 2018 2017 Associate Associate information Fair value information Fair value reported to Unadjusted and other Group reported to Unadjusted and other Group Group 20% share adjustments share Group 20% share adjustments share Year ended 31 December m m m m m m m m Revenue 2,446 489 -- - 489 2,690 538 --- 538 Operating profit before interest and tax 233 46 66 20 482 96 67 29 Profit for the year 153 31 49 18 347 69 46 23 Other comprehensive income 6 1 -- - 1 213 43 --4 - 3 147 30 49 19 560 112 46 66 Total comprehensive income Summarised balance sheet 2018 2017 Associate Fair value Associate Fair value information and other information and other reported to Unadjusted adjustments Group reported to Unadjusted adjustments Group Group 20% share i share Group 20% share i share 31 December m m m m m m m m Non-current assets 15,209 3,042 758 3,800 14,282 2,856 822 3,678 Current assets 3,237 648 1 647 3,452 691 1 692 Current liabilities 670 134 -- - 134 695 139 --- 139 Non-current liabilities 9,833 1,967 115 2,082 9,141 1,828 133 1,961 7,943 1,589 642 2,231 7,898 1,580 690 2,270 Net assets i Before cumulative impairments of 586 million 2017: 586 million of the Groups associate investment.
During the year, dividends of 20 million 2017: 57 million were paid by the associate to the Group.
Joint operations -- fields - assets 31 December 2018 Location Percentage holding Cygnus UK North Sea 61% Hejre Denmark 40% Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 207 Financial Statements | Notes to the Financial Statements Supplementary information continued S11.
Non-controlling interests The Group has one subsidiary undertaking with a non-controlling interest: Spirit Energy Limited, which is the parent company of the combined business that comprises the acquired Bayerngas Norge exploration and production business and the Groups existing Exploration & Production business.
2018 2017 Distributions Distributions NonTotal to nonNonTotal to noncontrolling Profit for comprehensi Total controlling controlling Profit for comprehensiv Total controlling interests the year five income equity interests interests the year e income equity interests 31 December % m m m m % m m m m Spirit Energy Limited 31% 59 60 803 -- - 31% 5 8 729 --- Summarised financial information The summarised financial information disclosed is shown on a 100% basis.
It represents the consolidated position of Spirit Energy Limited and its subsidiaries that would be shown in its consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies before intercompany eliminations from the date of acquisition on 8 December 2017.
Summarised statement of total comprehensive income 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Revenue 1,854 160 Profit for the year 191 17 Other comprehensive income 3 10 Total comprehensive income 194 27 Summarised balance sheet 2018 2017 31 December m m Non-current assets 4,775 4,768 Current assets 1,243 756 Current liabilities 949 799 Non-current liabilities 2,479 2,373 Net assets 2,590 2,352 Other reserves movements during the year represent measurement period differences between the fair value and the carrying value of assets contributed to Spirit Energy Limited in 2017.
Summarised cash flow 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 37 71 208 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
