NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation Cineworld Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK standards including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: these are presented on pages 130 to 139.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these Group financial statements.
Information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 4 to 9 and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 23 to 27.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 31 to 35.
In addition Note 24 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Presentational Currency Following the acquisition of Regal, which completed on 28 February 2018, the majority of the Groups revenue and trading profit is now generated in US dollars.
The Group elected to change its presentational currency to US dollars from 1 January 2018 to remove the largest driver of currency translation volatility and provide greater transparency of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
A change in presentational currency is a change in accounting policy which is accounted for retrospectively.
Financial information included in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 previously reported in sterling has been restated into US dollars using the procedures outlined below: Assets and liabilities denominated in non-US dollar currencies were translated into US dollars at the closing rates of exchange on the relevant balance sheet date: Non-US dollar income and expenditure were translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing for the relevant period: and Share capital, share premium and the other reserves were translated at the historic rates prevailing on the date of each transaction.
The cumulative foreign currency translation reserve has been restated on the basis that the Group has reported in US dollars since 2004, the inception date of the Company.
Going Concern As a result of the Regal acquisition, on 28 February 2018 the Group restructured its debt arrangements.
The previous financing arrangements in place as at 31 December 2017 for the Group and Regal Entertainment Group were terminated and superseded with the new financing arrangements for the enlarged Group which consist of a USD and Euro term loan totalling $4.1bn and a $300.0m revolving credit facility.
The revolving credit facility is subject to springing covenants which are triggered above 35% utilisation.
The enlarged Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that theenlarged Group should be able to operate within the level of its new facilities for at least 12 months from the approval date of the financial statements, including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis.
In the short-term, the impact of elevated political instability and economic uncertainty as a result of the UK referendum in respect of leaving the European Union Brexit may have an adverse impact on the operating environment of the UK&I operating segment.
The Directors believe that as the Group operates in a number of territories outside of the UK, including the US which accounts for 71% of revenue for the year ended 31 December 2018 and no material goods are imported from or exported to the EU that the impact of the UK referendum on Brexit on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern will be minimal.
Measurement Convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income.
Basis of Consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases.
Joint Arrangement Under IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements investments in Joint Arrangements are classified as either Joint Operations or Joint Ventures.
The classification depends on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, rather than the legal structure of the Joint Arrangement.
Cineworld Group Plc has both Joint Operations and Joint Ventures.
88 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
