NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Accounting Policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost accounting rules.
Information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 4 to 9 and the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 23 to 27.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 31 to 35.
In addition, Note 24 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: a Cash Flow Statement and related notes: comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible fixed assets and intangible assets: disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries: disclosures in respect of capital management: the effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs: an additional Balance Sheet for the beginning of the earliest comparative period following the retrospective change in accounting policy: and disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel.
Presentational Currency In line with changes in the presentational currency of Cineworld Group Plc, the Company has elected to change its presentational currency to US dollars from 1 January 2018 to provide greater transparency and comparison with the Group.
A change in presentational currency is a change in accounting policy which is accounted for retrospectively.
Financial information included in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 previously reported in sterling have been restated into US dollars using the procedures outlined below: Assets and liabilities denominated in non-US dollar currencies were translated into US dollars at the closing rates of exchange on the relevant balance sheet date: Non-US dollar income and expenditure were translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing for the relevant period: and Share capital, share premium and the other reserves were translated at the historic rates prevailing on the date of each transaction.
The cumulative foreign currency translation reserve has been restated on the basis that the Group has reported in US dollars since 2004, the inception date of the Company The functional currency of the Company remains in sterling.
Investments In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Impairment The Group evaluates its investments for financial impairment where events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be fully recoverable.
When such evaluations indicate that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable value, an impairment in value is recorded.
Deferred Taxation Deferred tax is recognised using the Balance Sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all temporary differences except as otherwise required by IAS 12.
Share-Based Payment Transactions The share options programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an addition to fixed asset investments with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an evaluation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees.
The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The fair value of the share appreciation rights is measured based on an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
The liability is remeasured at each Balance Sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value recognised in profit and loss spread equally over the vesting period.
132 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
