NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation Cineworld Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK standards including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: these are presented on pages 130 to 139.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these Group financial statements.
Information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 4 to 9 and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 23 to 27.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 31 to 35.
In addition Note 24 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Presentational Currency Following the acquisition of Regal, which completed on 28 February 2018, the majority of the Groups revenue and trading profit is now generated in US dollars.
The Group elected to change its presentational currency to US dollars from 1 January 2018 to remove the largest driver of currency translation volatility and provide greater transparency of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
A change in presentational currency is a change in accounting policy which is accounted for retrospectively.
Financial information included in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 previously reported in sterling has been restated into US dollars using the procedures outlined below: Assets and liabilities denominated in non-US dollar currencies were translated into US dollars at the closing rates of exchange on the relevant balance sheet date: Non-US dollar income and expenditure were translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing for the relevant period: and Share capital, share premium and the other reserves were translated at the historic rates prevailing on the date of each transaction.
The cumulative foreign currency translation reserve has been restated on the basis that the Group has reported in US dollars since 2004, the inception date of the Company.
Going Concern As a result of the Regal acquisition, on 28 February 2018 the Group restructured its debt arrangements.
The previous financing arrangements in place as at 31 December 2017 for the Group and Regal Entertainment Group were terminated and superseded with the new financing arrangements for the enlarged Group which consist of a USD and Euro term loan totalling $4.1bn and a $300.0m revolving credit facility.
The revolving credit facility is subject to springing covenants which are triggered above 35% utilisation.
The enlarged Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that theenlarged Group should be able to operate within the level of its new facilities for at least 12 months from the approval date of the financial statements, including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis.
In the short-term, the impact of elevated political instability and economic uncertainty as a result of the UK referendum in respect of leaving the European Union Brexit may have an adverse impact on the operating environment of the UK&I operating segment.
The Directors believe that as the Group operates in a number of territories outside of the UK, including the US which accounts for 71% of revenue for the year ended 31 December 2018 and no material goods are imported from or exported to the EU that the impact of the UK referendum on Brexit on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern will be minimal.
Measurement Convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income.
Basis of Consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases.
Joint Arrangement Under IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements investments in Joint Arrangements are classified as either Joint Operations or Joint Ventures.
The classification depends on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, rather than the legal structure of the Joint Arrangement.
Cineworld Group Plc has both Joint Operations and Joint Ventures.
88 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies continued Basis of Consolidation continued Joint Operations Cineworld Group Plc recognises its share of any jointly held or incurred assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the joint operation.
These have been incorporated in the financial statements under the appropriate headings.
Details of the joint operation are set out in Note 13.
Joint Ventures Joint Ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring the venturers unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
Joint Ventures are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to $nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Alternative performance measures The Group uses alternative performance measures APMs, which are not defined or specified under IFRS.
The Group believes that these APMs, which are not considered to be a substitute for IFRS measures, provide additional helpful information.
APMs are consistent with how business performance is planned, reported and assessed internally by management and the Board and provide comparable information across the Group.
The Group uses the following APMs: Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss is defined as Operating profit plus share of profits from associates using the equity accounting method net of tax adjusted for deprecation and amortisation, onerous lease charges and releases, impairments and reversals of impairments, transaction and reorganisation costs, gains losses on disposals of assets and subsidiaries, share based payment charges, and excess cash distributions jointly controlled entities.
Adjusted EBITDA is considered an accurate and consistent measure of the Groups trading performance.
Items adjusted to arrive at Adjusted EBITDA are considered to be primarily non-cash items or items outside the Groups ongoing trading activities.
The Group believes including cash distributions from associates earned in the period is an appropriate reflection of the contribution that these investments make to the Groups operations and reflects the way these operations have been and will continue to be monitored.
Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted profit before tax is calculated by adding back amortisation of intangible assets excluding acquired film distribution rights, and certain nonrecurring or non-cash items and foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of non USD$ denominated monetary assets and liabilities as set out in Note 6.
Adjusted profit before tax is an internal measure used by management, as they believe it better reflects the underlying performance of the Group and therefore a more meaningful comparison of performance from period to period.
Constant currency The Group measures some financial metrics on both a reported basis and at constant exchange rates.
The constant exchange rate basis re-translates the prior period financial information at the current period exchange rate to eliminate the effect of exchange rate translation differences when comparing information year-on-year.
Foreign Currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the Balance Sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Translation movements are recognised within the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income and in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Accounting Policies continued Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Cash Flow Hedges and Interest Swap Policy The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve within equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss, within other income expenses.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to finance costs within The Statement of Profit or Loss at the same time as the relating interest expense on hedged borrowings.
When a hedging instrument expires, sold or terminated, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative gain or loss and deferred costs of hedging that were reported in equity are immediately reclassified to profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income immediately.
Net Investment Hedge The Group uses net investment hedges to mitigate translation exposure on certain net investments in subsidiary companies.
Changes in the fair values of hedging instruments are taken directly to the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income together with gains or losses on the foreign currency translation of the hedged investments.
Until the investment is disposed all of these gains or losses are recognised in equity, within the hedging reserve.
Non-Derivative Financial Instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and Other Receivables Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost.
The Group applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivable.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the Statement of Cash Flows.
Trade and Other Payables Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost.
Interest-Bearing Borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are measured at amortised cost less transaction costs.
Any difference between cost and redemption value is recognised within the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Leases At inception of an arrangement, the Group determines whether the arrangement is or contains a lease.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings.
Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
All other leases are operating leases.
These leased assets are not recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged to the Statement of Profit or Loss to write assets down to their residual values on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Land and buildings: freehold properties 20 to 50 years Land and buildings: long leasehold properties including leasehold improvements Life of lease Land and buildings: short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements 30 years or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Fixtures and fittings 3 to 20 years No depreciation is provided on land, assets held for sale or assets in the course of construction.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are reassessed annually.
90 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies continued Business Combinations For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred including the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
Transactions costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities that the Group incurs in connection with business combinations are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Distribution rights that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
Distribution rights are amortised by film title from the date of release of the film, at 50% in the first year of release and 25% in each of the two subsequent years.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Brands 10 years to indefinite life Distribution rights 3 years Other intangibles 4 to 10 years Non-Current Assets Held for Sale A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a non-current asset a disposal group is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable within one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to the Statement of Profit or Loss.
The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement although gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment once classified as held for sale or distribution are not amortised or depreciated.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on the First-In, First-Out FIFO principle.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated selling costs.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill assets that have an indefinite useful economic life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each Balance Sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to CGUs and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other intangible assets in the unit onapro rata basis.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Accounting Policies continued Calculation of Recoverable Amount The recoverable amount is the greater of the assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pretax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of Impairment An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as aresult of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, including a change in fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Equity investments: Equity investments are held in entities which have not been classified as a subsidiary, associate or Joint Arrangement are accounted for at fair value.
These equity investments are not held for trading purposes and represent strategic investments.
The Group has elected at initial recognition to present value changes through the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income within the revaluation reserve.
Any dividends received from these equity investments will be recognised within The Statement of Profit or Loss.
On disposal of these equity investments, any related balance within the FVOCI reserve is reclassified to retained earnings.
Employee Benefits Defined Contribution Pension Plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Statement of Profit or Loss in the periods which services are rendered by employees.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior years, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value ofany plan assets.
The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Tocalculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in the Statement ofOther Comprehensive Income.
The Group determines the net interest expense income on the net defined benefit liability asset for the year by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual year to the then-net defined benefit liability asset, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the year as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service orthe gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
The Group recognises gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
Share-Based Payment Transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date using the Black-Scholes model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Group to employees.
The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The fair value of the share appreciation rights is measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
The liability is remeasured at each Balance Sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
92 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies continued Government Grants Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and the Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant.
They are then recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss as other income on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to which they relate.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pretax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust EBT Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information.
In particular, the trusts purchase of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Revenue Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods sold and services provided, excluding sales related taxes and intra-group transactions.
Allthe Groups revenue is received from the sale of goods and services.
The Group has transitioned to IFRS15 under the cumulative effect method.
Due to the nature of the goods and services sold by the Goup and the nature of the sales transactions, the judgements made in identifying performance obligations and transaction prices have not had an impact on the revenue recognised.
The recognition of revenue under each of the Groups material revenue streams is as follows: Box office revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film the ticket sold relates to.
Concessions revenue is recognised at point of sale.
Advertising revenue is recognised at the point the advertisement is shown in cinemas.
An element of Advertising revenue relates to the exhibitor services agreement ESA with National CineMedia NCM within the US operating segment.
Revenue is recognised over the period the rights to advertising services are provided.
Distribution revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to for cinema distribution, for other media the revenue is recognised over the life of the distribution contract.
Unlimited card revenue is received annually or monthly in advance.
When revenue from the Unlimited card is received annually in advance it is recognised on a straight-line basis over the year.
Monthly Unlimited card revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates.
The Group records proceeds from the sale of gift cards and other advanced bulk tickets in deferred income and recognises admissions or retail revenue when redeemed.
Additionally, the Group recognises unredeemed gift cards and bulk tickets as other revenues based on a proportion of redemptions, which is estimated primarily based on the Groups historical experience.
The Group operates loyalty schemes under which customer under which rewards can be earned.
The most significant of these is the Regal Crown Club.
Members earn credits for each dollar spent at the Companys theatres and can redeem such credits for tickets, concession items and other rewards.
To determine the amount of revenue to defer upon issuance of credits to customers, an estimate is made of the value expected to be redeemed by customers for those credits.
The estimates are based on rewards that have historically been offered under the loyalty program, which are considered to be representative of rewards offered in future.
Upon redemption, deferred rewards are recognised as revenues in line with the revenue stream they are redeemd under.
Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Other Operating Income Other income represents rent receivable and profit on disposals of fixed assets.
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Accounting Policies continued Expenses Operating Lease Payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
Lease incentives received are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term in the Statement of Profit or Loss as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Where the Group has operating leases that contain minimum guaranteed rental uplifts over the life of the lease, the Group recognises the guaranteed minimum lease payment on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance Lease Payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Landlord Contributions The Group receives contributions from landlords for renovations at existing theatres.
The Group records the payments received from landlords as deferred income and amortises the balance offsetting the rent expense over the initial term of the lease.
Net Financing Costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable, amortisation of financing costs, unwind of discount on property provisions, unwind of discount of finance lease, unwind of discount on long term deferred income, finance lease interest, net gain loss on remeasurement of interest rate swaps, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and finance costs for defined benefit pension schemes.
Sale and Leaseback Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned have not been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is deferred and recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss over the lease term.
At the date of the transaction the assets and the associated finance lease liabilities on the Groups Balance Sheet are stated at the lower of fair value of the leased assets and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned have been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss on completion of the transaction, when the sale and subsequent leaseback has been completed at fair value.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the Balance Sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Operating Segments An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
During the year, the CCE&I operating segment as disclosed within the 31 December 2017 annual report was renamed to rest of the world ROW.
The Board of Directors review the operating results of Regal, United Artists and Edwards theatres brands separately to those of other territories within the Group.
These results are reviewed within a newly established operating segment, US.
94 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies continued Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Judgements and estimates made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next financial year are set out below.
Judgements The key judgements are: Finance and Operating Leases When the Group enters into a new lease it is required to consider whether it bears substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset.
The Group considers the requirements of IAS 17 Leases when determining whether it has an operating or finance lease.
For the majority of the Groups leases the determinations are straight forward and the material judgements only relate to a few lease arrangements.
There are some instances within the Group where the lease arrangements can be up to 99 years in length and therefore a judgement has to be made as to whether the lease term is for the major part of the economic life of the asset where the asset is not transferred at the end of the lease.
In addition for these leases, calculations have to be undertaken to ascertain whether, at inception of the lease, the present value of the minimum lease payments represent substantially all of the fair value of the leased asset.
Determining the present value of the lease payments and the fair value of the leased asset requires elements of estimation and judgement in respect of the forward-looking discount rate and assessing if extension options are likely to be exercised in the lease contract.
The outcome of whether a lease is an operating or a finance lease can have a material impact on the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The property, plant and equipment and the finance lease liability on an individual lease could be a material asset based on a long lease and average annual rents.
The Group has not early adopted the new lease accounting standard, IFRS 16 Leases, which will be effective from 1 January 2019.
Classification of Joint Arrangements When the Group acquires an interest in a Joint Arrangement it is required to assess the type of Joint Arrangement that is, Joint Operation or Joint Venture where the arrangement is structured through a separate vehicle, in accordance with IFRS 11.
This assessment includes whether or not, together with the other parties involved, the Group has joint rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement.
As part of its acquisition of Regal the Group acquired a significant share in Digital Cinema Implementation Partners DCIP, a Joint Arrangement with other US exhibitors set up to collect and administrate Virtual Print Fee VPF income received from studios to compensate exhibitors for their investment in digital projection equipment.
Through long term leasing arrangements with DCIP, the exhibitors retain control over the projection equipment it has acquired.
In addition, the Group determined that under the terms of the leasing arrangements and the associated minimum rental charges expected to be made, it has a joint obligation for the debt taken out by DCIP to finance the acquisition of the projection equipment.
The Group concluded that, with joint control over these, the material assets and liabilities of DCIP, it should classified as a Joint Operation.
Details of the DCIPs financial performance and position can be found in Note 13.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Accounting Policies continued Estimates Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised and in any future years affected.
In applying the Groups accounting policies described above the Directors have identified that the following areas are the key estimates that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Business Combinations On 28 February 2018 the Group acquired Regal, and when the Group undertakes a business combination, there are specific judgements which need to be made in respect of the acquisition accounting.
This includes determining the fair value of the acquired total net identifiable assets, with particular reference to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, acquired leases and any required provisions.
Details of the acquisition undertaken by the Group during the year, including the specific judgements taken, are set out in Note 18.
Impairment of Goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis.
This requires an estimate of the value in use of the cash generating unit CGUs to which the goodwill is allocated.
To estimate the value in use, the Group estimates the expected future cash flows from the CGU and discounts them to their present value at a determined discount rate, which isappropriate for the country where the goodwill is allocated to.
Forecasting expected cash flows and selecting an appropriate discount rate inherently requires estimation.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed over the estimates see Note 11.
The resulting calculation is sensitive to the assumptions in respect of future cash flows and the discount rate applied.
The Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the CGUs, and that the discount rate used is appropriate given the risks associated with the specific cash flows.
Although based on the sensitivity analysis performed there is no impairment charge to goodwill, it is considered appropriate to disclose this as an area of significant estimation due to the size of the balance and the fact that it could change as a result of future events.
Impairment of Tangible Fixed Assets The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist or based on the annual impairment assessment.
The annual assessment requires an estimate of the value in use of the CGUs to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated, which is predominantly at the individual cinema site level.
Where individual sites: cash flows are not determined to be independent from one another, mainly due to strategic or managerial decisions being made across more than one site, they may be combined into a single CGU.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from each cinema and discount these to their net present value at a discount rate which is appropriate for the territory where the assets areheld.
The Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the CGUs and that the discount rates used are appropriate given the risks associated with the specific cash flows.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed over the estimates see Note 10.
Tax In determining the income tax assets and liabilities recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Group is required to estimate the outcome of multiple tax years remaining open to tax authority audit in each of the jurisdictions in which the Group has companies.
The key judgement area for tax is the pricing of transactions between group companies in each of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
In most countries transfer pricing law requires that taxable profits reflect arms length pricing of intra-group transactions.
Determining the arms length price of a transaction and likelihood of challenge by local tax authorities is inherently subjective.
In making estimates for tax provisioning purposes management make use of in-house tax expertise, comparable third party studies prepared by professional advisers and any other information available.
In the event of an audit the Group may liaise with the relevant tax authorities to agree an outcome.
The tax liability provided for each tax year and jurisdiction is reassessed in each period to reflect our best estimate of the probable outcome in light of all the information available.
A final position agreed with a tax authority or through expiry of a tax audit period could differ from the estimates made by us which would impact the current tax liability of $51.0m 2017: $28.6m recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Tax audits give additional visibility over maximum potential exposures as tax authorities positions become clearer.
Such developments further inform our best estimate in line with the approach above.
Conversely where tax audit windows close without audits commencing this enables tax provisions to be released.
The outcome of tax audits concluded in 2018 was consistent with the exposures provided at the previous balance sheet date.
The amount of the current tax liability subject to significant uncertainty is $21.4m 2017: $9.4m being the reduction in the liability if all filed returns are agreed without adjustment.
Conversely the liability may increase due to the outcome of tax audits or changes in our assessment.
Five years of tax returns remain open across multiple jurisdictions.
Deferred taxes are recognised in respect of temporary differences between the tax treatment and treatment within the financial statements for assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent they are expected to be recovered.
Recoverability is assessed on an ongoing basis.
Deferred tax is calculated at the substantively enacted rate which is expected to apply in the period the asset or liability is expected to be realised.
Although the deferred tax asset recognised may not be material, there is still estimation involved in those potential tax assets which remain unrecognised.
The nature and amounts of unrecognised potential tax assets are disclosed in Note 9 and these are material for the Group.
Although the Group does not believe that there is a significant risk of a material adjustment to deferred tax assets within the next financial year, there is a significant uncertainty existing at each year end and therefore the Groups overall tax position could change within the next 12months.
96 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies continued Estimates continued Revenue recognition NCM Exhibitor Services Agreement ESA The Group recognises advertising revenues when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service to the customers.
The advertising contracts with customers generally consist of a series of distinct periods of service, satisfied over time, to provide rights to advertising services.
The Groups ESA with NCM includes a significant financing component due to the significant length of time between receiving the non-cash consideration and fulfilling the performance obligation.
The Group receives the non-cash consideration in the form of common membership units from NCM, in exchange for rights to exclusive access to the Groups theatre screens and attendees through February 2037.
The interest expense is calculated using discount rates implicit within the business combination.
New Standards and Interpretations The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations were adopted for the year ended 31 December 2018 and have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the group: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Impact of adoption of IFRS 9 replaces the provisions of IAS 39 that relate to the recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, fide-recognition of financial instruments, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
Classification and measurement On 1 January 2018 the date of initial application of IFRS 9, the Groups management has assessed which business models apply to the financial assets held by the Group and has classified its financial instruments into the appropriate IFRS 9 categories.
There has been no reclassification of previously held assets or liabilities as a result of this.
Derivatives and hedging activities The interest rate swaps in place as at 31 December 2017 qualified as cash flow hedges under IFRS 9.
The Groups risk management strategies and hedge accounting documentation are aligned with the requirements of IFRS 9 and these relationships are therefore treated as continuing hedges.
As a result of the Regal transaction on 28 February 2018, the Sterling and Euro term loans held at 31 December 2017 were repaid.
The interest rate swaps attached to the Sterling term loan was settled resulting in a profit of $0.1m.
Prior to resettlement on 28February 2018 the fair value of these swaps recognised within the hedging reserve was $0.1m.
On settlement this was recycled from the hedging reserve.
A Euro term loan was drawn down as part of the new facilities and therefore the existing Euro interest rate swap remains in place to mitigate the Groups interest rate risk.
As the swap was designated to the previous Euro term loan it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The fair value of this swap recognised within the hedging reserve prior to repayment on 28 February 2018 was $0.1m and it was recycled to the Statement of Profit or Loss on this date.
Any subsequent movements in fair value of this swap should be recognised directly within the profit or loss.
The existing Euro term loan was designated as a net investment hedge to mitigate translation exposure on certain net investments in subsidiary companies.
On repayment of this loan on 28 February 2018 the value recognised in the hedging reserve in relation to this net investment hedge was $3.5m.
This portion of the hedging reserve was recycled to the profit or loss on repayment date.
Impairment of financial assets The Groups trade receivables resulting from sales 31 December 2018: $206.6m: 31 December 2017: $39.9m are subject to IFRS9s new expected credit loss model.
The Group was required to revise its impairment methodology under IFRS 9 for this class of asset.
There was no material impact as a result in this change in impairment methodology.
Trade receivables The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses, which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.
At 31 December 2017, the Groups loss allowance in place was $0.5m.
We have recalculated the loss allowance at 1 January 2018 as a result of adopting the new approach and the loss allowance in place remained at $0.5m.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Accounting Policies continued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 now applies a five-step model for revenue recognition.
In assessing the impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 management considered each revenue stream individually and applied the five step model in recognising revenue for each respective stream.
On conclusion of this assessment, revenue for each revenue stream would be recognised at the same point as if the existing policy had remained in place and therefore there has been no changes to the Groups existing revenue recognition policy.
Forthcoming requirements The following standards and interpretations have been issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2018.
These standards and interpretations have not been adopted early: IFRS 16 Leases Nature of IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016.
It will result in almost all leases being recognised on the balance sheet change by lessees, as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed.
Under the new standard, an asset the right to use the leased item and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognised.
The only exceptions are short-term and low-value leases.
Impact The Group has reviewed all of the Groups leasing arrangements in light of the new lease accounting rules in IFRS 16.
The standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Groups operating leases.
As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of $5.4bn see Note 25.
Of these commitments, immaterial amount is related to short-term leases and low value leases which will both be recognised on a straight-line basis as expense in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
For the remaining lease commitments the Group expects to recognise right-of-use assets within a range of approximately $2.8bn $3.2bn on 1 January 2019, lease liabilities within a range of $2.9bn $3.2bn after adjustments for prepayments and accrued lease payments recognised as at 31 December 2018 and deferred tax assets within a range of $10m $30m.
Overall net assets will be approximately be between $50m $150m lower, and net current assets will be between $200m $300m lower due to the presentation of a portion of the liability as a current liability.
The Group expects that net profit after tax will decrease by approximately a range of $60m $120m for 2019 as a result of adopting the new rules.
Adjusted EBITDA used to measure segment results is expected to increase within a range of approximately $500m $600m, as the operating lease payments were included in EBITDA, but the amortisation of the rightof-use assets and interest on the lease liability are excluded from this measure.
Operating cash flows will increase and financing cash flows decrease within a range of approximately $500m $600m as repayment of the principal portion of the lease liabilities will be classified as cash flows from financing activities.
The Groups activities as a lessor are not material and hence the Group does not expect any significant impact on the financial statements.
However, some additional disclosures will be required from next year.
Mandatory The Group will apply the standard from its mandatory adoption date of 1 January 2019.
The Group intends application to apply the simplified transition approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to date Date first adoption.
Right-of-use assets for property leases will be measured on transition as if the new rules had of adoption always been applied.
All other right-of-use assets will be measured at the amount of the lease liability on by Group adoption adjusted for any prepaid or accrued lease expenses.
98 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
