The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Statement of Directors' Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Statement under DTR 4.1.
12 Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Each of the Directors, who are listed on page 16, confirms that, to accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the best of his or her knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements the Company's financial statements, which have been prepared in for each financial year.
"Under that law the Directors have prepared accordance with UK Accounting Standards on a going concern the Company financial statements in accordance with United basis, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom position and profit of the Company: and Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 ""The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland "", the Strategic Report and financial statements include a fair review and applicable law."
Under company law the Directors must not of the development and performance of the business and the approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they position of the Company, together with a description of the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
of the net return or loss of the Company for that year.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: For and on behalf of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Philip Remnant CBE Chairman make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 24 September 2018 and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors' Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's position and performance, business model and strategy.
The financial statements are published on the website The maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility www.
of Janus Henderson: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in occurred to the Annual Report since it was initially presented on other jurisdictions.
