"The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Glossary and Alternative Performance Measures Alternative Investment Fund Managers Dividend Dates When declared or recommended, each dividend will have three key Directive ""AIFMD"" dates applied to it."
The payment date is the date on which Agreed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European shareholders will receive their dividend, either by BACS transfer or Union and transposed into UK legislation, the AIFMD classifies by receipt of a dividend cheque.
"The record date applied to the certain investment vehicles, including investment companies, as dividend is used as a cut-off for the Company's registrars to know Alternative Investment Funds ""AIFs"" and requires them to appoint which shareholders should be paid a dividend."
"Only shareholders on an Alternative Investment Fund Manager ""AIFM"" and depositary the register of members at the close of business on the record date to manage and oversee the operations of the investment vehicle."
The ex-dividend date is the business day The Board of the Company retains responsibility for strategy, before the record date and is the date upon which the Company's operations and compliance and the Directors retain a fiduciary net asset value will be disclosed ex-dividend.
"Gearing Association of Investment Companies ""AIC"" Gearing means borrowing money to buy assets with the The Company is a member of the AIC which is the trade body for expectation that the return on investments bought will exceed the investment companies and represents the industry in relation to interest cost of the borrowings."
The gearing percentage reflects the various matters which impact the regulation of such entities.
amount of borrowings e. g. bank loans, overdrafts, debentures or secured notes the Company has used to invest in the market, and is calculated by taking the difference between total investments Benchmark see Note 11 and equity shareholders' funds see Statement of A measure against which performance is compared.
For the Financial Position, dividing this by equity shareholders' funds and Company this is the size weighted average of the AIC UK Equity multiplying by 100.
The Company can also use synthetic gearing Income sector.
through derivatives and foreign exchange hedging.
Custodian Investment Trusts The Custodian is responsible for ensuring the safe custody of the Investment trusts are public limited companies, listed on the London Company's assets and ensuring that all transactions in the Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a professionally underlying holdings are transacted in an accurate and timely manner.
Investment trusts are exempt from tax on the capital gains arising on their investments subject to meeting certain criteria.
Income, net of expenses and tax, is Depositary substantially distributed to shareholders.
Investment trusts are also From 22 July 2014 all AIFs were required to appoint a Depositary known as investment companies, although the tax legislation retains who has responsibility for overseeing the operations of the Company the reference to investment trusts.
including safekeeping, cash monitoring and verification of ownership and valuation.
The Depositary is strictly liable for the loss of any investments or other assets in its custody unless it has notified that Liquidity it has discharged its liability in certain markets.
The Depositary has In the context of the liquidity of shares in the stock market, this refers confirmed that it has not discharged liability in relation to any of the to the availability of buyers in the market for the share in question.
Where the market in a particular share is described as liquid, that share will be in demand and holders wishing to sell their shares should find ready buyers.
Conversely, where the market in a share is Derivative illiquid the difficulty of finding a buyer will tend to depress the price A contract between two or more parties in relation to an underlying that might be negotiated for a sale.
The value of a derivative will fluctuate in accordance with the value of the security and is a form of gearing as the fluctuations in value are usually greater than the fluctuations in the underlying Market Capitalisation security's value.
Examples of derivatives are put and call options, The market value of a company, calculated by multiplying the swap contracts, futures and contracts for difference.
Foreign mid-market price per share by the number of shares in issue.
exchange, interest rates and commodities may also be traded using derivative contracts.
"22 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Glossary and Alternative Performance Measures continued Net Asset Value ""NAV"" per Ordinary Share Premium Discount The value of the Company's assets i. e. investments see Note 11 and The amount by which the market price per share see page 3 of an cash held see Statement of Financial Position less any liabilities i. e. investment trust is either higher premium or lower discount than bank borrowings and debt securities see Notes 14 and 15 for which the NAV per share, expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share."
the Company is responsible, divided by the number of shares in issue see Note 17.
The aggregate NAV is also referred to as shareholders' Revenue Earnings per share funds on the Statement of Financial Position.
The revenue return per share, is the revenue return for the year The NAV is published daily and includes a NAV with debt at market see Income Statement divided by the weighted average number value and a NAV with debt at par.
Performance is measured with of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
"Revenue Reserve per share Net Asset Value ""NAV"" with Debt at The revenue reserve see Statement of Financial Position as at the year end divided by the number of shares in issue see Note 17 Market Value at the year end date."
The Company's debt bank borrowings, debenture stocks, secured notes, preference and preferred stock, further details can be found in Notes 14 and 15 on page 53 is valued in the Statement of Total Return Performance Financial Position on page 41 at amortised cost, which is materially This is the return on the share price or NAV with debt at market equivalent to the repayment value of the debt on the assumption that value taking into account both the rise and fall of share prices and it is held to maturity.
"This is often referred to as ""Debt at Par""."
The the dividends paid to shareholders.
"Any dividends received by a current market value of the debt, which assumes it is repaid under shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional current market conditions, is referred to as ""Debt at Market value""."
shares for share price total return or the Company's assets for This Market Value is detailed in note 16.4 on page 57 The difference NAV with debt at market value total return.
Dividends paid and between market and par values of the debt is subtracted from or payable are set out in Note 10 on page 51. added to the Statement of Financial Position on page 59 to derive the NAV with debt at market value.
The NAV with debt at market value at 30 June 2018 was 1,503,856,000 424.33p per share and the NAV Yield with debt at par was 1,520,997,000 429.16p per share The annual dividend see Note 10 expressed as a percentage of the share price see page 3.
Ongoing Charge The Ongoing Charge reflects those expenses of a type which are likely to recur in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital or revenue, and which relate to the operation of the Company as a collective fund, excluding the costs of acquisition or disposal of investments, financing costs and gains or losses arising on investments.
The Ongoing Charge is based on actual costs incurred in the year as being the best estimate of future costs.
Warning to Shareholders Many companies are aware that their shareholders have received Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment Company's Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, would matters.
These are typically from overseas based 'brokers' who make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They shareholders and never in respect of investment 'advice'.
can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
please contact the Company Secretary on the telephone number detailed on page 17 23 The City of London Investment Trust pie Annual Report 2018 Corporate Report
