Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Corporate information Basis of consolidation The Group and Parent Company financial statements of The Groups consolidated financial statements incorporate Clarkson PLC for the year ended 31 December 2018 were the results and net assets of Clarkson PLC and all its subsidiary authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the undertakings made up to 31 December each year.
Clarkson PLC is a Public Limited Company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, incorporated Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
and registered in England and Wales and domiciled in the UK.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the The term Company refers to Clarkson PLC and Group refers entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its to the Company, its consolidated subsidiaries and the relevant power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated assets and liabilities of the share purchase trusts.
from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Copies of the annual report will be circulated to all shareholders and will also be available from the registered office of the See note T to the Parent Company financial statements Company at Commodity Quay, St. Katharine Docks, for full details on subsidiaries.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial 2 Statement of accounting policies statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
2.1 Basis of preparation The accounting policies which follow set out those policies All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year are eliminated on consolidation, however for the purposes of ended 31 December 2018.
Additional accounting policies segmental reporting, internal recharges are included within for the Parent Company are set out in note A. the appropriate segments.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and 2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand New and amended standards adopted by the Group pounds sterling 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
Further to the specific new standards set out below, there were no other new standards, amendments or interpretations, The consolidated income statement is shown in columnar effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or format to assist with understanding the Groups results after 1 January 2018, that had a material impact on the Group by presenting profit for the year before exceptional items or Parent Company.
if applicable and acquisition related costs: this is referred to as underlying profit.
When there are items which are IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was effective from non-recurring in nature and considered to be material in size, 1 January 2018.
The standard addresses the classification, these are shown as exceptional items.
The column acquisition measurement and derecognition of financial instruments, related costs includes the amortisation of acquired intangible introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new assets and the expensing of the cash and share-based impairment model for financial assets.
It replaces IAS 39 elements of consideration linked to ongoing employment Financial Instruments guidance and comprehensive obligations on acquisitions.
In 2017, acquisition related updates have been made to IFRS 7 Financial Instrument: costs also included interest on the loan note obligations.
Disclosure and IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
These notes form an integral part of the financial statements The Group has applied IFRS 9 in the current year and on pages 138 to 171. prospectively, and the updated IFRS 7 disclosure requirements from their effective date.
In accordance with Statement of compliance the transition provisions in IFRS 9, comparative figures have The financial statements of Clarkson PLC have been prepared not been restated.
No material adjustments were identified in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards on transition to IFRS 9, the adjustments being IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, IFRS IC reclassifications only.
Upon initial recognition, 219.0m interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable of financial assets previously classified as loans and to companies reporting under IFRSs.
receivables were reclassified as at amortised cost and 5.2m of available-for-sale financial assets were reclassified The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on as 1.4m of fair value through profit or loss assets and 3.8m the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, of fair value through other comprehensive income assets.
as modified by financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss and T he implementation of IFRS 9 did not have a material fair value through other comprehensive income.
impact on the Groups financial statements.
The Group assessed the impact of the new standard on its hedging The Group has considerable financial resources available and arrangements, investments valuation and provisioning a strong balance sheet, as explained in the financial review on for trade receivables.
As a result of this, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has effective from 1 January 2018.
The standard establishes sufficient resources to continue in operation for at least the next a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how 12 months.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going much and when revenue is recognised.
It replaces existing concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
revenue recognition guidance, including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IFRIC 13 Customer Except where noted, the accounting policies set out in this Loyalty Programmes.
The Group has applied IFRS 15 note have been applied consistently to all periods presented from its effective date and in accordance with the in these consolidated financial statements.
In 2018, IFRS 15 transitional provisions in IFRS 15, comparative figures have Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 not been restated.
There were no adjustments required on Financial Instruments have been applied.
No adjustments transition other than the reclassification of accrued income or restatements have been required to be made as a result and deferred income to contract assets and contract of first time application of these new standards.
142 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements The impact assessment performed by the Group included The following are not expected to have a material impact a review of each of its revenue streams and customer on the Groups financial statements: contracts to identify distinct performance obligations IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral accounts, effective from and the appropriate method for recognising revenue upon 1 January 2016 satisfaction of the performance obligations, either at a point Amendment to IFRS 3, Business combinations, in time or over time.
For broking, time charters are satisfied effective from 1 January 2019 over time.
All other revenue streams in that segment Amendment to IFRS 9, Financial instruments on satisfied are at a point in time.
For the other business prepayment features with negative compensation, segments, the performance obligations are satisfied at a effective from 1 January 2019 point in time except for periodical supplies in the research Amendments to IAS 19, Employee benefits, plan segment.
Based on our assessment of the adoption of amendment, curtailment or settlement, effective from IFRS 15, there was no material impact on the Groups 1 January 2019 financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 28, Long-term interests in associates and joint ventures, effective from 1 January 2019 New standards, amendments and interpretations issued Amendment to IAS 1 and IAS 8 regarding the definition but not yet effective for the financial year beginning 1 January of materiality, effective from 1 January 2019 2018 and not early adopted.
Annual improvements 2015 2017, effective from IFRS 16 Leases, effective from 1 January 2019 1 January 2019 The standard represents a significant change in the IFRIC 23, Uncertainty over income tax treatments, accounting and reporting of leases for lessees as it effective from 1 January 2019 provides a single lessee accounting model that replaces subject to EU endorsement the current model where leases are either recognised as a finance or operating lease.
2.3 Critical accounting judgements and estimates The following are the critical accounting judgements, apart I FRS 16 requires lessees to adopt a uniform approach to the from those involving estimations dealt with separately below, presentation of leases.
In future, assets must be recognised that the Directors have made in the process of applying the for the right of use received and liabilities must be Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant recognised for the discounted payment obligations entered effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated into for all leases.
The Group will make use of the relief financial statements.
options provided for leases of low-value assets and short-term leases shorter than 12 months.
Judgements Revenue recognition F or leases that have been classified to date as operating The application of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with leases in accordance with IAS 17, the lease liability will Customers requires the Group to assess its revenue streams, be recognised at the present value of the remaining lease including whether the recognition of revenue should be at a payments, discounted using the interest rate implicit in point in time or over time.
Where revenue is at a point in the lease, if that rate can be readily determined.
If that rate time, a judgement is also required as to at what point this is.
cannot be readily determined, the lessees incremental Within broking, the Group previously recorded revenue at the borrowing rate will be used.
The right of use asset will point when the underlying parties to the transaction completed generally be measured at the amount of the lease liability their respective obligations.
For IFRS 15, the Group has plus initial direct costs.
Advance payments and liabilities defined and determined its performance obligation, which from the previous financial year will also be accounted for.
continues to be the successful satisfaction of the negotiated contract between counterparties and therefore recognises A s a result, the following will be the opening balance revenue at this point in time.
This is a critical judgement, since adjustment on transition: if the performance obligation was deemed to be satisfied at an Right of use asset 52.2m earlier point or over time, the revenue recognition would differ.
Lease liability 62.0m Other payables non-current 8.4m In addition, for certain clients, the Group considers there is Prepayments 0.9m uncertainty at the time of invoicing as to whether the clients Deferred tax asset 0.3m are capable of settling their invoices due to Clarksons.
The Equity 2.0m Group continues to trade with such clients which are deemed to be key market participants or preferred counterparties for I n contrast to the presentation to date of operating lease certain transactions.
At the point of revenue recognition, these expenses within operating profit, in future, depreciation amounts are invoiced but provisions are made which directly charges on right of use assets and the interest expense offset against revenue, on the basis consideration is not from unwinding of the discount on the lease liabilities will be certain.
See note 2.19 for further details.
The overall quantum of amounts charged to the income statement is not expected to be materially different Alternative performance measures in the early years of adoption, however, as the income The Group excludes adjusting items exceptional items statement charge is based on the unwinding of the lease and acquisition related costs from its underlying earnings liability discount, this charge will reduce in future years.
The Directors believe that alternative performance measures can provide users of the financial statements with I n regards to the cash flow impact, other than presentational a better understanding of the Groups underlying financial differences between operating cash flows and financing performance, if used properly.
If improperly used and cash flows, it is not expected to have any impact on net presented, these measures could mislead the users of the cash flows.
financial statements by obscuring the real profitability and financial position of the Group.
Directors judgement is required as to what items qualify for this classification.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Statement of accounting policies continued Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life Estimation uncertainty after allowing for estimated residual value based on current The assumptions and estimates at the end of the current prices of the asset, and is charged from the time an asset reporting period that have a significant risk of resulting in a becomes available for its intended use.
Estimated useful material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and lives are as follows: liabilities within the next financial year are set out below: Freehold and long leasehold properties 1060 years Impairment of trade receivables Leasehold improvements Over the period Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the of the lease ordinary course of business.
Trade receivables are classified Office furniture and equipment 210 years as current assets if collection is due within one year or less Motor vehicles 45 years or in the normal operating cycle of the business, if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
The provision Estimates of useful lives and residual scrap values are for impairment of receivables represents managements best assessed annually.
estimate of expected credit losses to arise on trade receivables at the balance sheet date.
Determining the amount of the At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying provision includes analysis of specific customers amounts of its property, plant and equipment to determine creditworthiness which may be impaired as indicated by whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered the age of the invoice, the existence of any disputes, recent an impairment loss.
historical payment patterns and any known information regarding the clients financial position.
In a limited number 2.5 Investment properties of circumstances, where doubt exists as to the ability to Land and buildings held for long-term investment and to collect payment, a provision is made at the time of invoicing earn rental income are classified as investment properties.
For clients where a specific Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated provision is not recognised, management is required to depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
estimate expected credit losses in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
This estimate takes into account the Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the Groups history of bad debt write-offs and extended unpaid estimated useful life of the asset, and is charged from the time invoices for each of its segments and also views on market an asset becomes available for its intended use.
Estimated conditions both for certain business lines and territories.
useful lives are as follows: Determining the amount of a provision for impairment is inherently challenging and in a given year there is a risk this Investment properties 60 years estimate may materially change in the following year, either due to successful, unforeseen collections or sudden collapses In addition to historical cost accounting, the Directors have of clients.
This is therefore deemed to be a critical accounting also presented, through additional narrative, the fair value estimate.
See note 13 for further details.
of the investment properties in note 10.
Impairment testing of goodwill 2.6 Business combinations and goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units method.
to which these assets have been allocated.
The value-in-use calculation requires estimation of future cash flows expected Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the to arise for the cash-generating unit, the selection of suitable cost of the business combination over the Groups share in the discount rates and the estimation of future growth rates.
net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and As determining such assumptions is inherently uncertain and contingent liabilities.
subject to future factors, there is the potential these may differ in subsequent periods and therefore materially change the All transaction costs are expensed in the income statement conclusions reached.
In light of this, consideration is made as incurred.
each year as to whether sensitivity disclosures are required for reasonably possible changes to assumptions used in Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group this estimate.
See note 12 for further details.
is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that 2.4 Property, plant and equipment is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in the Land held for use in the production or supply of goods income statement.
Contingent consideration that is classified or services, or for administrative purposes, is stated as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement on the balance sheet at its historic cost.
is accounted for within equity.
Freehold and long leasehold properties, leasehold After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any improvements, office furniture and equipment and motor accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment vehicles are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from and any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes the the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cashoriginal purchase price of the asset.
generating units identified according to operating segment.
144 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements 2.7 Intangible assets 2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such in a business combination is the fair value as at the date indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an of acquisition.
asset is required, the Group estimates the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an Costs incurred on development projects, relating to the assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell introduction or design of new systems or improvement of the and its value-in-use and is determined for an individual asset, existing systems, are only capitalised as intangible assets if unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are capitalisation criteria under IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met, largely independent of those from other assets or groups that is, where the related expenditure is separately identifiable, of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds the costs are measurable and management is satisfied as to its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired the ultimate technical and commercial viability of the project and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing such that it will generate future economic benefits based on value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted all relevant available information.
Capitalised development to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects costs are amortised from the date the system is available for current market assessments of the time value of money and use over their expected useful lives not exceeding five years.
the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less Other costs linked to development projects that do not costs to sell, an appropriate valuation model is used.
meet the above criteria such as data population, research These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, expenditure and staff training costs are recognised or other available fair value indicators.
as an expense as incurred.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at the income statement in those expense categories consistent cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated with the function of the impaired asset.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset makes an estimate of recoverable amount.
A previously with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at each financial recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has year-end.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was in the asset are accounted for by changing the amortisation recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount in accounting estimates.
The amortisation expense on cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the income determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss statement within administrative expenses.
been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Intangible assets are amortised as follows: Goodwill The Group assesses whether there are any indicators that Trade name and non-contractual commercial relationships goodwill is impaired at each reporting date.
Goodwill is tested Amortisation is calculated using estimates of revenues for impairment annually.
generated by each asset over their estimated useful lives of up to five years.
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units to which Forward order book on acquisition the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the Amortisation is calculated based on expected future cash cash-generating units is less than their carrying amount an flows estimated to be up to five years.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.
The Group Development costs performs its annual impairment test of goodwill as at Amortisation is calculated based on estimated useful life, 31 December.
which will not exceed five years, when ready for use.
2.9 Investments and other financial assets Classification Financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVPL, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI and financial assets at amortised cost.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets on initial recognition, taking into account the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Statement of accounting policies continued Assets carried at amortised cost under IAS 39 for comparative only Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVPL If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets These assets are measured at fair value.
Net gains and losses, carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of including any interest or dividend income, are recognised in the loss is measured as the difference between the assets profit or loss in finance revenue or finance costs.
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original income FVOCI effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed The asset is measured at fair value.
For investments in equity at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is instruments, dividends are recognised when the entitys right reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount to receive payment is established, it is probable the economic of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
benefits will flow to the entity and the amount can be measured reliably.
Dividends are recognised in the income If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment statement unless they clearly represent recovery of a part loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively of the cost of the investment, in which case they are included to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, in other comprehensive income.
Changes in fair value are the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed, to the recognised in other comprehensive income and are never extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its recycled to the income statement, even if the asset is sold amortised cost at the reversal date.
Any subsequent reversal or impaired.
of an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Loans and receivables under IAS 39 for comparative only 2.11 Inventories Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO active market.
After initial measurement loans and receivables method.
Net realisable value is are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains and losses less applicable variable selling expenses.
are recognised in profit or loss when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the 2.12 Cash and cash equivalents amortisation process.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of between one day Recognition and measurement and three months.
Fair value The fair value of investments in equity instruments that are 2.13 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by The Group uses various derivative financial instruments reference to quoted market bid prices at the close of business to reduce exposure to foreign exchange movements.
on the balance sheet date.
For investments where there is These can include forward foreign exchange contracts no active market, fair value is determined using valuation and currency options.
All derivative financial instruments techniques.
Such valuation techniques include using recent are initially recognised on the balance sheet at their fair arms-length market transactions: reference to the current value adjusted for transaction costs.
market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis: or other valuation models.
The fair values of financial instrument derivatives are determined by reference to quoted prices in an active market.
Amortised cost Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost.
The method of recognising the movements in the fair value This is computed using the effective interest method less any of the derivative depends on whether the instrument has allowance for impairment.
The calculation takes into account been designated as a hedging instrument determined with any premium or discount on acquisition and includes reference to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and, if so, the cash transaction costs and fees that are an integral part flow being hedged.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the terms of the effective interest rate.
of the hedge must be clearly documented at inception and there must be an expectation that the derivative will be highly Trade and other receivables effective in offsetting changes in the cash flow of the hedged Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair risk.
Hedge effectiveness is tested throughout the life of the value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using hedge and if at any point it is concluded that the relationship the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
can no longer be expected to remain highly effective in achieving its objective, the hedge relationship is terminated.
2.10 Impairment of financial assets The Group designates the hedged risk as movements in the The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether spot rate, with changes in the forward rate recognised in other a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost On transition to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the Group In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment has applied the new standard and updated its hedging is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will documentation accordingly.
not be able to collect all of the amounts due.
The provision is determined with reference to specific analysis of increased Gains and losses on financial instrument derivatives which credit loss risk clients and lifetime expected credit losses qualify for hedge accounting are recognised according to the applied to all other trade receivables the simplified approach.
nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
146 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements Cash flow hedges: derivative financial instruments are The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups of defined benefit pension plans is the difference between the exposure to changes in cash flows attributable to a particular present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
reporting period and the fair value of plan assets.
Where the Gains or losses on designated cash flow hedges are Group does not have an unconditional right to a schemes recognised directly in equity, to the extent that they are surplus, this asset is not recognised in the balance sheet.
Any remaining portion of the gain The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
On recognition of the hedged asset or liability, any gains or The present value of the defined benefit obligation is losses that had previously been recognised directly in equity determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows are included in the initial measurement of the fair value of the using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that have asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge pension obligation.
accounting, any cumulative gain or loss in equity remains there and is recognised in the income statement when the Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience forecast transaction is ultimately recognised.
When a forecast adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred in the period in which they arise.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income.
Where financial instrument derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, changes in the fair market value are recognised The net interest revenue cost is calculated by applying the immediately in the income statement.
discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets.
This revenue cost is included 2.14 Trade and other payables in employee benefit income expense in the income statement.
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business 2.17 Share-based payment transactions from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current Employees including senior executives of the Group receive liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, whereby employees render services as consideration for they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which interest method.
The fair value of the element of these awards which have a Total Shareholder Return performance condition 2.15 Provisions was valued using a stochastic model.
All other elements of Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present awards were valued using a Black-Scholes model.
obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the period in which the performance and or service conditions are obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, become fully entitled to the award the vesting date.
The the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent relating to any provision is presented in profit or loss net of to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money estimate of the number of equity instruments that will is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax ultimately vest.
The profit or loss charge or credit for a period rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the as at the beginning and end of that period.
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a 2.16 Employee benefits market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of The Group operates various post-employment schemes, whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that including both defined contribution and defined benefit all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings to publicly or privately administered pension arrangements on per share.
See note 7 for further details.
a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been The social security contributions payable in connection with paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit the share options is considered an integral part of the grant expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund transaction.
or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Statement of accounting policies continued Support Port service income is recognised at a point in time on vessel 2.18 Share capital load or discharge completion date and store rent on an over Ordinary shares are recognised in equity as share capital time basis.
Agency income is recognised at a point in time at their nominal value.
The difference between consideration when vessels arrive in port.
Revenue from the sale of goods received and the nominal value is recognised in the share is recognised when the goods are physically despatched premium account, except when applying the merger relief to the customer and title passes.
provision of the Companies Act 2006.
Research Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new Revenue comprises both fees for one off projects, ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, which are recognised as and when services are performed, from the proceeds.
and sales of shipping publications and other information, which is recognised when the research products are delivered.
Company shares held in trust in connection with the Groups Subscriptions to periodicals and other information are employee share schemes are deducted from consolidated recognised over time, which is determined with reference shareholders equity.
Purchases, sales and transfers of the to the subscription period and therefore the most faithful Companys shares are disclosed as changes in consolidated representation of how the client consumes the benefit.
The assets and liabilities of the trusts The transaction price is agreed in the contract and either are consolidated in full into the Groups consolidated recognised wholly at a point in time, or in the case of financial statements.
subscriptions, it is spread evenly over the subscription period.
2.19 Revenue recognition Contract assets liabilities Revenue is recognised in accordance with satisfaction Except for research, which is generally invoiced in advance, of performance obligations of contracts.
invoicing typically aligns with the timing that performance obligations are satisfied.
Payment terms are set out in note 17.
Broking Shipbroking and offshore revenue consists of commission At the year-end, there may be amounts where invoices have not receivable and is predominantly recognised at a point in time.
been raised but performance obligations are deemed satisfied.
As set out in note 2.2, the point in time is deemed to be when These are recognised as contract assets 2017: accrued income the underlying parties to the transaction have completed their and mainly arise in broking and financial.
In research, amounts respective obligations and successfully fulfilled the contract invoiced ahead of performance obligations being satisfied are between them as brokered and overseen by Clarksons.
included as contract liabilities 2017: deferred income.
The transaction price is fixed and determined with reference 2.20 Segment reporting to the contracted commission rate for the broker.
Broking Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with revenue contracts vary, with certain contracts having a single the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decisionperformance obligation and others, such as newbuilds, maker.
The Group considers the executive members of the containing multiple performance obligations.
In the case Companys Board to be the chief operating decision-maker.
of single performance obligation contracts, the transaction is allocated wholly against that performance obligation.
2.21 Foreign currencies In the case of multiple performance obligation contracts, Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are the transaction price is allocated with reference to the agreed recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the stages of completion in the underlying contract.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and such stages is agreed between the underlying counterparties liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are and Clarksons commission is derived as a percentage of this.
retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
The stage of completion is deemed a reasonable proxy for the Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the allocation of the total consideration transaction price to income statement.
performance obligations in the contract.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical Time charter commission revenue is recognised over time in cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange line with the period of time for which vessel is being chartered, rates as at the date of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary which is deemed to be the most faithful representation of the items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are service provided over the period of the contract.
The transaction translated using the exchange rates as at the date when price is apportioned evenly over the life of the charter per the fair value was determined.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups Futures broking commissions are recognised when the services overseas operations are translated into pounds sterling at have been performed.
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange Financial rates for the period as an approximation of rates prevailing Revenue consists of commissions and fees receivable at the date of the transaction unless exchange rates fluctuate from financial services activities.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are banking activities, syndication and other financial solutions recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive are recognised at a point in time, on a success basis, income and transferred to the Groups currency translation when certain criteria in applicable agreements have been reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as met.
Financial revenue usually involves a single performance income or expense in the period in which an operation is obligation being successful execution of the relevant financial disposed of.
Cumulative translation differences have been services activity.
The transaction price is allocated wholly to set to zero at the date of transition to IFRSs.
the point in time when this performance obligation is satisfied.
The transaction price usually is determined as a fixed Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition percentage of the underlying financial services transaction.
of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
148 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements 2.22 Taxation Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at Current income tax the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax at the balance sheet date.
rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in profit or loss.
Current income tax is recognised in the income statement, except on items relating to equity, in which case the related Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities current income tax is recognised directly in equity.
are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the Deferred income tax deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on and the same taxation authority, where there is an intention temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the to settle the balances on a net basis.
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
2.23 Leases Where the Group is a lessee, operating lease payments Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable are recognised as an expense in the income statement temporary differences, except: on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentive where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial payments are amortised over the lease term.
recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the 2.24 Exceptional items time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit Exceptional items are significant items of a non-recurring nor taxable profit or loss: and nature and considered material in both size and nature.
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with These are disclosed separately to enable a full understanding investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the Groups financial performance.
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Revenue and expenses 2018 2017 m m Revenue Revenue from contracts with customers 337.3 323.6 Revenue from other sources: Rental income 0.3 0.4 337.6 324.0 Revenue is disaggregated further in note 4, which is the level at which it is analysed within the business.
Further information on the timing of transfer of goods and services for revenue streams is included in note 2.
The forward order book comprises contracts where the Groups performance obligations are not satisfied and accordingly, no revenue is recognised.
The Directors best estimate of the deliverable forward order book for 2019 is US$107m 84m 2017 for 2018: US$93m 69m.
2018 2017 m m Finance revenue Bank interest income 0.8 0.7 Dividend income 0.2 Income from available for-sale financial assets 0.3 Other finance revenue 0.3 1.3 1.0 Re-classified under IFRS 9.
2018 2017 m m Finance costs Loan note interest 0.3 Other finance costs 1.3 0.3 1.3 0.6 2018 2017 m m Other finance revenue pensions Net benefit income 0.3 Operating profit Operating profit from continuing operations is stated after charging crediting : 2018 2017 m m Depreciation 5.2 5.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 1.7 3.6 Operating lease expense land and buildings 12.2 12.4 Operating sublease income land and buildings 0.3 0.4 Net foreign exchange gains losses 1.9 7.3 Research and development 8.0 5.5 2018 2017 000 000 Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys Auditors for the audit of the Companys and Group financial statements 238 235 Fees payable to the Companys Auditors and their associates for other services: The auditing of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 280 309 Audit-related assurance services 64 84 Other services 14 59 596 687 Audit-related assurance services consists of 40,000 2017: 40,000 in relation to the half-year review, nil 2017: 30,000 in relation to the implementation of new IFRSs and 24,000 2017: 14,000 of other audit-related services.
Other services relate to the provision of payroll services in China 2017: the assistance with the liquidation of an entity in Ghana and the provision of payroll services in China.
150 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements 2018 2017 m m Employee compensation and benefits expense Wages and salaries 186.3 177.8 Social security costs 16.5 15.9 Expense of share-based payments 1.4 1.4 Other pension costs 5.1 4.1 209.3 199.2 The numbers above include remuneration and pension entitlements for each Director.
Details are included in the Directors remuneration report in the Directors emoluments and compensation table on page 114.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year, including Executive Directors, is analysed below: 2018 2017 Broking 1,103 1,040 Financial 110 114 Support 234 175 Research 117 106 1,564 1,435 4 Segmental information The Group considers the executive members of the Companys Board to be the chief operating decision-maker.
The Board receives segmental operating and financial information on a regular basis.
The segments are determined by the class of business the Company provides and are broking, financial, support and research.
This is consistent with the way the Group manages itself and with the format of the Groups internal financial reporting.
Clarksons broking division represents services provided to shipowners and charterers in the transportation by sea of a wide range of cargoes.
It also represents services provided to buyers and sellers yards relating to sale and purchase transactions.
Also included is a futures broking operation which arranges  cash-settled contracts for differences based upon standardised freight contracts.
The financial division represents full-service investment banking, specialising in the maritime, oil services and natural resources sectors.
Clarksons also provides structured asset finance services and structured projects in the shipping, offshore and real estate sectors.
Support includes port and agency services representing ship agency services provided throughout the UK and Egypt.
Research services encompass the provision of shipping-related information and publications.
All areas of the business work closely together to provide the best possible service to our clients.
Occasionally revenue is shared between different segments to reflect relative contributions to a particular transaction.
Internal recharges are included within the appropriate segments.
The Group is not reliant on any major customer that is more than 10% of Group revenue.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Segmental information continued Business segments Revenue Results 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Broking 251.7 238.9 44.0 43.9 Financial 46.1 52.0 8.0 10.1 Support 23.9 18.5 2.3 2.1 Research 15.9 14.6 5.0 4.8 Segment revenue underlying profit 337.6 324.0 59.3 60.9 Head office costs 14.3 11.4 Operating profit before acquisition related costs 45.0 49.5 Acquisition related costs 2.4 4.5 Operating profit after acquisition related costs 42.6 45.0 Finance revenue 1.3 1.0 Finance costs 1.3 0.6 Other finance revenue pensions 0.3 Profit before taxation 42.9 45.4 Taxation 10.2 11.0 Profit for the year 32.7 34.4 Business segments Assets Liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Broking 373.7 361.0 93.8 89.5 Financial 159.3 162.6 15.5 19.4 Support 23.9 19.2 8.9 5.3 Research 12.1 6.2 6.8 5.9 Segment assets liabilities 569.0 549.0 125.0 120.1 Unallocated assets liabilities 30.5 36.3 39.9 41.8 599.5 585.3 164.9 161.9 Unallocated assets predominantly relate to head office cash balances, the pension scheme surplus and tax assets.
Unallocated liabilities include the pension scheme deficit, tax liabilities and trade and other payables.
Business segments Non-current asset additions Depreciation Amortisation Property, Property, plant and Intangible plant and Intangible equipment assets equipment assets 2018 2018 2017 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m m m Broking 1.5 3.9 3.7 1.5 4.3 4.2 1.6 3.5 Financial 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 Support 0.6 1.3 0.6 0.5 2.2 3.9 5.3 1.5 5.2 5.0 1.7 3.6 152 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements Geographical segments by origin of invoice Revenue 2018 2017 m m Europe, Middle East and Africa 259.6 248.8 Americas 22.7 26.6 Asia Pacific 55.3 48.6 337.6 324.0 Geographical segments by location of assets Non-current assets 2018 2017 m m Europe, Middle East and Africa 303.6 304.1 Americas 2.9 2.9 Asia Pacific 21.0 20.8 327.5 327.8 Includes revenue for the UK of 158.1m 2017: 137.7m and non-current assets for the UK of 88.7m 2017: 88.1m.
Non-current assets exclude deferred tax assets and employee benefits.
5 Acquisition related costs Included in acquisition related costs are cash and share-based payment charges of 0.2m 2017: 0.3m relating to previous acquisitions.
These are contingent on employees remaining in service and are therefore spread over the service period.
Also included is 0.5m 2017: 0.6m relating to the acquisition of the remaining non-controlling interest in Clarksons Platou Tankers AS.
The charge consists of cash and share-based payment charges which are linked to future service of the employees and are therefore spread over a four year period.
Also included is 1.7m 2017: 3.6m relating to amortisation of intangibles acquired as part of the Platou and other prior acquisitions.
In 2017, interest on the loan notes issued as part of the Platou acquisition totalled 0.3m.
6 Taxation Tax charged in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Current tax Tax on profits for the year 8.7 10.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 1.2 8.2 11.4 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.0 2.4 Impact of change in tax rates 2.0 2.0 0.4 Total tax charge in the income statement 10.2 11.0 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6 Taxation continued Tax relating to items charged credited to equity is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Current tax Employee benefits on pension benefits 0.1 other employee benefits 0.3 0.5 Other items in equity 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.9 Deferred tax Employee benefits on pension benefits 0.2 1.6 other employee benefits 0.9 0.5 Foreign currency contracts 0.5 1.4 0.6 2.5 Total tax charge in the statement of changes in equity 0.4 1.6 Reconciliation of tax charge The tax charge in the income statement for the year is higher 2017: higher than the average standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19.00% 2017: 19.25%.
The differences are reconciled below: 2018 2017 m m Profit before taxation 42.9 45.4 Profit at UK average standard rate of corporation tax of 19.00% 2017: 19.25% 8.2 8.7 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.6 1.5 Non-taxable income 0.1 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 1.2 0.5 Tax losses not recognised 0.7 0.7 Adjustments relating to prior year 0.8 Adjustments relating to changes in tax rates 2.0 Other adjustments 1.0 0.6 Total tax charge in the income statement 10.2 11.0 Deferred tax Deferred tax charged credited in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Employee benefits on pension benefits 0.1 other employee benefits 1.6 0.4 Tax losses recognised 0.1 0.4 In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries 0.2 Intangible assets recognised on acquisition 0.4 0.8 Other temporary differences 0.6 0.2 Deferred tax charge credit in the income statement 2.0 0.4 154 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements Deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax asset Employee benefits on pension benefits 0.7 0.8 other employee benefits 6.4 8.7 Tax losses 0.3 0.4 Foreign currency contracts 0.2 Other temporary differences 1.0 1.2 8.6 11.1 Deferred tax liability Employee benefits on pension benefits 3.1 2.8 In relation to earnings of overseas subsidiaries 1.1 1.1 Foreign currency contracts 0.2 Intangible assets recognised on acquisition 0.2 0.6 Other temporary differences 2.0 1.8 6.4 6.5 Included in the above are deferred tax assets of 3.5m 2017: 3.6m and deferred tax liabilities of 0.2m 2017: 0.4m which are due within one year.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
All deferred tax movements arise from the origination and reversal of temporary differences.
The Group did not recognise a deferred tax asset of 3.5m 2017: 4.7m in respect of unused tax losses, which predominantly have either no expiry date or expiry dates of ten years or more.
7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2018 2017 m m Underlying profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company 31.7 35.2 Reported profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company 29.8 31.4 2018 2017 Weighted average number of ordinary shares excluding share purchase trusts shares basic 30,139,502 30,072,387 Dilutive effect of share options 36,011 69,266 Dilutive effect of acquisition related shares 45,020 29,092 Weighted average number of ordinary shares excluding share purchase trusts shares diluted 30,220,533 30,170,745 The share awards relating to Directors, where the performance conditions have not yet been met at the balance sheet date, are not included in the above numbers.
The weighted average number of these shares was 129,075 2017: 150,944.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8 Dividends 2018 2017 m m Declared and paid during the year: Final dividend for 2017 of 50p per share 2016: 43p per share 15.2 13.1 Interim dividend for 2018 of 24p per share 2017: 23p per share 7.3 7.0 Dividend paid 22.5 20.1 Proposed for approval at the AGM not recognised as a liability at 31 December : Final dividend for 2018 proposed of 51p per share 2017: 50p per share 15.5 15.2 9 Property, plant and equipment 31 December 2018 Freehold and long Office leasehold Leasehold furniture and Motor properties improvements equipment vehicles Total m m m m m Original cost At 1 January 2018 7.5 18.6 20.8 1.2 48.1 Additions 0.1 0.1 1.6 0.4 2.2 Disposals 0.6 0.2 0.8 Reclassifications 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange differences 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.8 At 31 December 2018 7.9 18.3 22.7 1.4 50.3 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2018 1.2 4.5 12.1 0.6 18.4 Charged during the year 0.3 1.5 3.2 0.2 5.2 Disposals 0.6 0.2 0.8 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.5 At 31 December 2018 1.6 6.1 14.9 0.7 23.3 Net book value at 31 December 2018 6.3 12.2 7.8 0.7 27.0 31 December 2017 Freehold and long leasehold Leasehold Office furniture Motor properties improvements and equipment vehicles Total m m m m m Original cost At 1 January 2017 7.7 18.1 18.0 1.1 44.9 Additions 1.0 3.9 0.4 5.3 Disposals 0.3 0.5 0.3 1.1 Foreign exchange differences 0.2 0.2 0.6 1.0 At 31 December 2017 7.5 18.6 20.8 1.2 48.1 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2017 1.0 3.4 9.9 0.6 14.9 Charged during the year 0.2 1.5 3.0 0.2 4.9 Disposals 0.3 0.5 0.2 1.0 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.3 0.4 At 31 December 2017 1.2 4.5 12.1 0.6 18.4 Net book value at 31 December 2017 6.3 14.1 8.7 0.6 29.7 156 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements 10 Investment property 2018 2017 m m Cost At 1 January 2.0 2.0 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 At 31 December 2.1 2.0 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 0.9 0.8 Charged during the year 0.1 At 31 December 0.9 0.9 Net book value at 31 December 1.2 1.1 The fair value of the investment properties at 31 December 2018 was 2.4m 2017: 2.3m.
This was based on valuations from independent valuers who have the appropriate professional qualifications and recent experience of valuing properties in the location and of the type being valued.
11 Intangible assets 31 December 2018 Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 297.9 32.3 330.2 Additions 3.9 3.9 Foreign exchange differences 1.5 0.3 1.8 At 31 December 2018 299.4 36.5 335.9 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2018 12.4 28.2 40.6 Charged during the year 1.7 1.7 Foreign exchange differences 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2018 12.4 30.1 42.5 Net book value at 31 December 2018 287.0 6.4 293.4 The additions in the year relate to development costs.
Also included within other intangible assets is 1.5m of development costs from previous years.
These assets will be amortised based on their estimated useful life, which will not exceed five years, when ready for use.
Also included within intangible assets is 0.6m relating to customer relationships, 0.3m relating to forward order book and 0.1m relating to trade name which were identified and recognised as part of a previous acquisition.
These intangible assets have a remaining amortisation period of one year.
Goodwill and other intangible assets are held in the currency of the businesses acquired and are subject to foreign exchange retranslations to the closing rate at each year-end.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11 Intangible assets continued 31 December 2017 Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 306.6 31.5 338.1 Additions 1.5 1.5 Foreign exchange differences 8.7 0.7 9.4 At 31 December 2017 297.9 32.3 330.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2017 12.4 25.2 37.6 Charged during the year 3.6 3.6 Foreign exchange differences 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2017 12.4 28.2 40.6 Net book value at 31 December 2017 285.5 4.1 289.6 The additions in the year relate to development costs.
Also included within other intangible assets is 1.4m relating to customer relationships, 1.0m relating to forward order book and 0.2m relating to trade name which were identified as part of a previous acquisition.
The intangible assets have a remaining amortisation period of two years.
12 Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs identified according to operating segment.
The carrying amount of goodwill acquired through business combinations is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Dry cargo chartering 12.0 12.0 Container chartering 1.8 1.8 Tankers chartering 11.3 11.3 Specialised products chartering 12.2 12.2 Gas chartering 2.7 2.7 Sale and purchase broking 49.1 48.9 Offshore broking 80.8 79.8 Securities 110.9 110.6 Port and agency services 2.9 2.9 Research services 3.3 3.3 287.0 285.5 The movement in the aggregate carrying value is analysed in more detail in note 11.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs which are tested for impairment at least annually.
The goodwill arising in each CGU is similar in nature and thus the testing for impairment uses the same approach.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are assessed using a value-in-use model.
Value-in-use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted cash flows of the CGU to which the goodwill is allocated.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are as follows: the pre-tax discount rate for the chartering and broking CGUs is 9.8% 2017: 8.7%, port and agency services is 9.8% 2017: 8.7%, research services is 9.8% 2017: 8.7% and for securities is 9.4% 2017: 8.5%.
As all broking and chartering CGUs have operations that are global in nature and similar risk profiles, the same discount rate has been used: these discount rates are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC and adjusted for CGU-specific risk factors.
The Groups WACC is a function of the Groups cost of equity, derived using a Capital Asset Pricing Model.
The cost of equity includes a number of variables to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated: and 158 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements the cash flow predictions are based on financial budgets and strategic plans approved by the Board, extrapolated over a five year period.
These assume a level of revenue and profits which are based on both past performance and expectations for future market development and take into account the cyclicality of the business in which the CGU operates.
Cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated in perpetuity using a conservative growth rate of 1.7% 2017: 1.7% across all CGUs.
The results of the Directors review of goodwill indicate remaining headroom for all CGUs.
After sensitivity analyses for reasonable possible changes in assumptions, the following observations on headroom for offshore broking and securities are evident.
Offshore broking The value in use exceeds the carrying value by 16%.
The impairment review of offshore broking is sensitive to a change in the key assumptions used: most notably the projected cash flows in perpetuity and the pre-tax discount rate.
The value in use exceeds the carrying amount unless the assumptions are changed as follows: A decrease in the projected operating cash flows of 17% in perpetuity.
An increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 1.2%.
Securities The value in use exceeds the carrying value by 13%.
The impairment review of securities is sensitive to a change in the key assumptions used: most notably the projected cash flows in perpetuity and the pre-tax discount rate.
The value in use exceeds the carrying amount unless the assumptions are changed as follows: A decrease in the projected operating cash flows of 16% in perpetuity.
An increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 1.1%.
In light of global macro-economic and geo-political uncertainty, the Board keeps the carrying value of goodwill under constant review.
In the event that any of the markets in which we operate has a sustained downturn, an impairment of the relevant CGUs goodwill may be required.
13 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 m m Non-current Other receivables 1.1 1.6 Foreign currency contracts 0.9 1.1 2.5 Current Trade receivables 61.7 44.5 Other receivables 5.1 5.7 Foreign currency contracts 0.4 Prepayments 6.3 4.8 Accrued income 4.8 Contract assets 3.9 77.0 60.2 See note 2 for the impact of the change in accounting policy following the adoption of IFRS 15 on the classification of contract assets.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms payable within 90 days.
As at 31 December 2018, the allowance for impairment of trade receivables was 14.4m 2017: 13.3m.
The allowance is based on experience and ongoing market information about the credit-worthiness of specific counterparties and expected credit losses in respect of the remaining balances.
The Group has unconditional rights to consideration in respect of trade receivables, except for those relating to research revenue, where 0.8m 2017: 0.5m relates to amounts invoiced in respect of subscriptions where revenue is recognised over time and the right to payment is conditional on satisfying this performance obligation.
These amounts are deferred as revenue and included within the contract liability balance.
The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.
The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of invoices over a period of 36 months before 1 January 2018 and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period.
These are then adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Trade and other receivables continued The following table shows the exposure to credit risk and expected credit losses of trade receivables as at 31 December 2018: Gross carrying Loss Expected loss amount allowance rate m m 0 3 months 3.6% 55.5 2.0 3 12 months 33.3% 12.3 4.1 Over 12 months 100.0% 8.3 8.3 76.1 14.4 Movements in the loss allowance for trade receivables were as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 13.3 15.5 Release of loss allowance 6.3 6.5 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 1.8 1.4 Increase in loss allowance 8.3 7.0 Foreign exchange differences 0.9 1.3 At 31 December 14.4 13.3 There were no material changes in the loss allowance on transition to IFRS 9 from IAS 39.
Included within the movements in the loss allowance were amounts which were provided at the time of invoicing for which no revenue has been recognised, because collectability was not considered probable.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not include any impaired items.
As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Neither past due nor impaired 53.5 38.4 Past due not impaired 90 days 8.2 6.1 61.7 44.5 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 m m US dollar 50.2 33.3 Sterling 6.1 5.6 Norwegian krone 3.2 4.1 Other currencies 2.2 1.5 61.7 44.5 14 Investments 2018 2017 m m Non-current Available-for-sale financial assets 4.9 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 1.0 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3.8 4.8 4.9 Current Funds on deposit 1.7 5.5 Available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 8.0 9.7 5.8 See note 2 for the impact of the change in accounting policy following the adoption of IFRS 9 on the classification of financial assets.
The Group held deposits totalling 1.7m 2017: 5.5m with maturity periods greater than three months.
The financial asset at fair value through other comprehensive income represents an investment in Cargometrics Technologies LLC.
160 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements 15 Inventories 2018 2017 m m Finished goods 0.8 0.7 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 6.7m 2017: 5.7m.
16 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 154.0 159.6 Short-term deposits 2.5 2.1 156.5 161.7 Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is 156.5m 2017: 161.7m.
Included in cash at bank and in hand is 1.9m 2017: 2.3m of restricted funds relating to employee taxes and other commitments.
17 Trade and other payables 2018 2017 m m Current Trade payables 12.1 13.7 Other payables 7.4 7.4 Other tax and social security 5.9 3.8 Foreign currency contracts 0.7 Accruals 103.8 102.4 Deferred income 0.1 4.7 Contract liabilities 5.4 135.4 132.0 Non-current Other payables 9.9 10.6 Foreign currency contracts 0.6 10.5 10.6 See note 2 for the impact of the change in accounting policy following the adoption of IFRS 15 on the classification of contract liabilities.
Terms and conditions of the financial liabilities: trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand: and other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on demand.
18 Provisions 2018 2017 m m Current At 1 January 0.1 Arising during the year 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 0.2 0.1 Non-current At 1 January 0.1 0.1 Arising during the year 0.1 At 31 December 0.2 0.1 Provisions have been recognised for the dilapidation of various leasehold premises which will be utilised on cessation of the lease between two and four years.
A provision is also recognised on certain employee benefits.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19 Share-based payment plans 2018 2017 m m Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 1.4 1.4 The share-based payment plans are described below.
There have been no cancellations or modifications to any of the plans during 2018 or 2017.
Share options Long-term incentive awards Details of the long-term incentive awards are included in the Directors remuneration report on page 123.
Awards made to the Directors are given in the Directors remuneration report on page 116.
The fair value of the element of these awards, which have a TSR performance condition, was valued using a Stochastic model.
All other elements of the awards were valued using a Black-Scholes model.
ShareSave scheme The ShareSave scheme enables eligible employees to acquire options over ordinary shares of the Company at a discount.
The fair value of these awards was valued using the Black-Scholes model.
Other options These options were granted in 2007 to senior executives where the performance conditions have since been met.
Movements in the year The following table illustrates the number of, and movements in, share options during the year: Weighted average Outstanding Outstanding at Exercisable at contractual at 1 January Granted Lapsed Exercised 31 December 31 December life 2018 in year in year in year 2018 2018 Years 1 Long term incentive awards 167,246 61,314 83,183 145,377 16,302 8.53 2 2015 ShareSave 95,865 2,401 93,464 3 2016 ShareSave 57,538 6,444 442 50,652 1.33 4 2017 ShareSave 99,459 12,374 31 87,054 2.25 5 2018 ShareSave 164,002 1,668 162,334 3.33 420,108 225,316 106,070 93,937 445,417 16,302 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 24.13 for the 2015 ShareSave options, 27.60 for the 2016 ShareSave options and 27.60 for the 2017 ShareSave options.
1 2 3 4 5 There is one exercise price for each type of share option award, as follows: nil, 18.12, 17.19, 22.50, 22.12.
Weighted average Outstanding at Outstanding at Exercisable at contractual 1 January Granted Lapsed Exercised 31 December 31 December life 2017 in year in year in year 2017 2017 Years 1 Long term incentive awards 143,617 67,761 37,149 6,983 167,246 8.12 2 2014 ShareSave 25,405 1,175 24,230 3 2015 ShareSave 104,164 7,588 711 95,865 1.00 4 2016 ShareSave 63,109 5,571 57,538 2.33 5 2017 ShareSave 99,859 400 99,459 3.25 6 Other options 15,000 15,000 351,295 167,620 51,883 46,924 420,108 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 26.12 in relation to the long-term incentive awards, 28.05 for the 2014 ShareSave options, 27.82 for the 2015 ShareSave options and 29.44 for the other options.
162 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements Significant inputs The inputs into the models used to value options granted in the period fell within the following ranges: 2018 2017 Share price at date of grant 25.0527.75 27.9529.26 Exercise price 0.0022.12 0.0022.50 Expected term years 3.03.3 3.03.3 Risk-free interest rate % 0.90.9 0.10.6 Expected dividend yield % 0.03.0 0.02.3 Expected volatility % 35.336.1 34.236.3 Expected volatility is calculated using historical data, where available, over the period of time commensurate with the remaining performance period for long term incentive awards and the expected award term for the ShareSave scheme, as at the date of grant.
Other employee incentives During the year, 243,581 shares 2017: 342,909 shares at a weighted average price of 30.57 2017: 27.91 were awarded to employees in settlement of 2017 2016 cash bonuses.
There was no expense in 2018 nor 2017 as a result of these awards.
The fair value of the above shares was determined based on the market price at the date of grant.
As part of previous acquisitions, certain elements of consideration are payable in the form of shares in Clarkson PLC.
Where these are contingent on the employees remaining in service, the cost of these shares are charged to the consolidated income statement over the service period.
The 2018 charge in relation to such awards is 0.4m 2017: 0.4m.
20 Employee benefits The Groups three defined benefit pension schemes are in the UK and all financial information provided in this note relates to the sum of the three separate schemes.
The Group operates three final salary defined benefit pension schemes, being the Clarkson PLC scheme, the Plowrights scheme and the Stewarts scheme, which are funded by the payment of contributions to separate trusts administered by Trustees who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes beneficiaries.
The schemes assets are invested in a range of pooled pension investment funds managed by professional fund managers.
Defined benefit pension arrangements give rise to open ended commitments and liabilities for the sponsoring company.
As a consequence, the Company closed its original defined benefit section of the Clarkson PLC scheme to new entrants on 31 March 2004.
This section was closed to further accrual for all existing members as from 31 March 2006.
The Plowrights scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 January 2006.
The Stewarts scheme was closed to further accrual on 1 January 2004.
Every three years, a pension scheme must obtain from an actuary a report containing a valuation and a recommendation on rates of contribution.
Triennial valuations for all the schemes have been prepared.
The valuation of the Clarkson PLC scheme showed a pension surplus of 3.6m as at 31 March 2016.
Clarkson PLC and the Trustees agreed to cease funding with effect from 1 October 2016.
The valuation of the Plowrights scheme showed a pension deficit of 1.2m as at 31 March 2016.
Clarkson PLC and the Trustees agreed to continue the funding plan, at the rate of 0.9m per annum, until 30 September 2017.
The valuation of the Stewarts scheme showed a pension deficit of 2.1m as at 1 September 2015.
Clarksons Platou Offshore Limited have agreed with the Trustees to pay contributions to remove the deficit over a period of seven years from 1 September 2015 at the rate of 0.4m per annum until 31 October 2016 and 0.3m per annum thereafter.
During the period, the impact of having to equalise benefits in relation to inequalities in the calculations of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions was quantified and was not material at 0.1m.
The Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if scheme assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
During the year, the largest two schemes fide-risked by replacing their equity holdings with less volatile investments.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase scheme liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes bond holdings.
Inflation risk Some of the Group pension obligations are linked to inflation.
The majority of the schemes assets are either unaffected by fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with equities inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 Employee benefits continued Life expectancy The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the schemes liabilities.
Other pension arrangements Overseas defined contribution arrangements have been determined in accordance with local practice and regulations.
The Group also operates various other defined contribution pension arrangements.
Where required, the Group also makes contributions into these schemes.
The Group incurs no material expenses in the provision of post-retirement benefits other than pensions.
The following tables summarise amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and the components of net benefit charge recognised in the consolidated income statement: Recognised in the balance sheet 2018 2017 m m Fair value of schemes assets 188.8 202.7 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 168.0 185.1 20.8 17.6 Effect of asset ceiling in relation to the Plowrights scheme 6.8 5.3 Net benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet 14.0 12.3 The net benefit asset disclosed above is the combined total of the three schemes.
The Clarkson PLC scheme has a surplus of 18.2m 2017: 16.7m, the Plowrights scheme has a surplus of nil 2017: nil and the Stewarts scheme has a deficit of 4.2m 2017: 4.4m.
As there is no right of set-off between the schemes, the benefit asset of 18.2m 2017: 16.7m is disclosed separately on the balance sheet from the benefit liability of 4.2m 2017: 4.4m.
The surplus in the Clarkson PLC scheme is recognised, as there are future economic benefits available in the form of a reduction in future contributions to the defined contribution section of the scheme and, in the event of wind up, excess surplus is refundable to the Group.
There are no such future economic benefits in respect of the Plowright Scheme and therefore the surplus of 6.8m 2017: 5.3m cannot be recognised.
A deferred tax asset on the benefit liability amounting to 0.7m 2017: 0.8m and a deferred tax liability on the benefit asset of 3.1m 2017: 2.8m is shown in note 6.
Recognised in the income statement 2018 2017 m m Recognised in other finance revenue pensions: Expected return on schemes assets 4.9 5.1 Interest cost on benefit obligation and asset ceiling 4.6 5.1 Recognised in administrative expenses: Past service cost 0.1 Scheme administrative expenses 0.3 0.1 Net benefit charge recognised in the income statement 0.1 0.1 Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 2018 2017 m m Actual return on schemes assets 2.1 14.9 Less: expected return on schemes assets 4.9 5.1 Actuarial loss gain on schemes assets 7.0 9.8 Actuarial gain on defined benefit obligations 9.6 0.4 Actuarial gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 2.6 10.2 Tax charge on actuarial gain 0.5 1.7 Effect of asset ceiling in relation to the Plowrights scheme 1.4 1.1 Tax credit on asset ceiling 0.3 0.2 Net actuarial gain on employee benefit obligations 1.0 7.6 Cumulative amount of actuarial gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 4.0 1.4 164 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements Schemes assets 2018 2017 % m % m Equities 2.7 5.2 12.5 25.5 Government bonds 43.1 81.2 34.3 69.5 Corporate bonds 28.9 54.6 26.0 52.6 Property 0.2 0.5 0.2 0.4 Investment funds 24.2 45.6 24.1 48.8 Cash and other assets 0.9 1.7 2.9 5.9 100.0 188.8 100.0 202.7 Based on quoted market prices.
Net defined benefit asset Changes in the fair value of the net defined benefit asset are as follows: 31 December 2018 Present value Fair value of Impact of of obligation plan assets Total asset ceiling Total m m m m m At 1 January 2018 185.1 202.7 17.6 5.3 12.3 Expected return on assets 4.9 4.9 4.9 Interest costs 4.5 4.5 0.1 4.6 Employer contributions 0.6 0.6 0.6 Administrative expenses 0.3 0.3 0.3 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 12.1 12.1 Actuarial gain loss 9.6 7.0 2.6 1.4 1.2 At 31 December 2018 168.0 188.8 20.8 6.8 14.0 31 December 2017 Present value Fair value of Impact of of obligation plan assets Total asset ceiling Total m m m m m At 1 January 2017 194.1 200.5 6.4 4.1 2.3 Expected return on assets 5.1 5.1 5.1 Interest costs 5.0 5.0 0.1 5.1 Employer contributions 1.0 1.0 1.0 Administrative expenses 0.1 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 13.6 13.6 Actuarial gain loss 0.4 9.8 10.2 1.1 9.1 At 31 December 2017 185.1 202.7 17.6 5.3 12.3 The Group expects, based on the valuations and funding requirements including expenses, to contribute 0.5m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2019 2017 for 2018: 0.5m.
The principal weighted average valuation assumptions are as follows: 2018 2017 % % Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.2 3.1 Price inflation RPI 3.3 3.2 Price inflation CPI 2.3 2.2 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.9 2.5 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 Employee benefits continued The mortality assumptions used to assess the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2018 and 2017 is based on the SAPS Light SAPS for the Stewart scheme standard mortality tables published by the actuarial profession in 2014.
These tables have been adjusted to allow for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy using the standard projection model published in 2017 31 December 2017: model published in 2016.
Examples of the assumed future life expectancy are given in the table below: Additional years 2018 2017 Post-retirement life expectancy on retirement at age 65: Pensioners retiring in the year male 22.023.1 22.023.1 female 24.024.2 24.024.2 Pensioners retiring in 20 years time male 23.424.4 23.524.5 female 25.525.7 25.525.7 Experience adjustments 2018 2017 m m Experience loss gain on schemes assets 6.9 9.8 Gain on schemes liabilities due to changes in demographic assumptions 1.2 0.3 Gain on schemes liabilities due to changes in financial assumptions 8.4 0.1 Loss on asset ceiling 1.5 1.1 Actuarial gain 1.2 9.1 Income tax on actuarial gain 0.2 1.5 Actuarial gain net of tax 1.0 7.6 Sensitivities The table below shows the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes to the most significant actuarial assumptions.
The impact of changes to each assumption is shown in isolation although, in practice, changes to assumptions may occur at the same time and can either offset or compound the overall impact on the defined benefit obligation.
A change of 0.25% is deemed appropriate given the movement in assumptions during the year.
The sensitivities have been calculated using the same methodology as the main calculations.
The weighted average duration of the defined obligation is 16 years.
2018 2017 Change in Change in defined defined Change in benefit Change in benefit assumption obligation assumption obligation Discount rate for scheme liabilities 0.25% -4.0% 0.25% -4.0% -0.25% 4.3% -0.25% 4.3% Price inflation RPI 0.25% 3.5% 0.25% 3.4% -0.25% -3.3% -0.25% -3.2% An increase of one year in the assumed life expectancy for both males and females would increase the benefit obligation by 3.8% 2017: 3.9%.
21 Share capital Ordinary shares of 25p each, issued and fully paid: Number of 2018 Number of 2017 shares m shares m At 1 January 30,233,179 7.6 30,233,179 7.6 Additions 91,879 At 31 December 30,325,058 7.6 30,233,179 7.6 During the year, the Company issued 91,879 shares in relation to the 2015 ShareSave scheme.
The difference between the exercise price of 18.12 and the nominal value of 0.25 was taken to the share premium account, see note 22.
Shares held by employee trusts The trustees have waived their right to dividends on the unallocated shares held in the employee share trust.
166 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements 22 Other reserves 31 December 2018 Employee Capital Currency Share ESOP benefits redemption Hedging Merger translation premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 29.1 1.2 3.2 2.0 1.0 177.5 23.1 234.7 Total comprehensive loss income 2.0 4.0 2.0 Share issues 1.6 1.6 Employee share schemes: Share-based payments expense 1.4 1.4 Transfer to profit and loss on vesting 0.1 1.0 0.9 Net ESOP shares acquired 1.7 1.7 Total employee share schemes 1.6 0.4 1.2 At 31 December 2018 30.7 2.8 3.6 2.0 1.0 177.5 27.1 237.1 31 December 2017 Employee Capital Currency Share ESOP benefits redemption Hedging Merger translation premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 29.1 3.0 2.5 2.0 5.0 177.5 37.0 240.1 Total comprehensive income loss 6.0 13.9 7.9 Employee share schemes: Share-based payments expense 1.4 1.4 Transfer to profit and loss on vesting 1.2 0.7 0.5 Net ESOP shares utilised 0.6 0.6 Total employee share schemes 1.8 0.7 2.5 At 31 December 2017 29.1 1.2 3.2 2.0 1.0 177.5 23.1 234.7 Nature and purpose of other reserves ESOP reserve The ESOP reserve in the Group represents 117,446 shares 2017: 62,796 shares held by the share purchase trusts to meet obligations under various incentive schemes.
The shares are stated at cost.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2018 was 2.2m 2017: 1.8m.
At 31 December 2018 none of these shares were under option 2017: none.
During the year the share purchase trusts acquired 350,000 shares at a weighted average price of 30.38 2017: 262,000 shares at 27.62, offset with shares utilised to settle employee incentives, see note 19 for further details of share incentive schemes.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, the above are netted within the movements in bonus accrual.
Employee benefits reserve The employee benefits reserve is used to record the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees.
Details are included in note 19.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose on previous share buy-backs by Clarkson PLC.
Hedging reserve This reserve comprises the effective portion of the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Realised hedges are recycled to the statement of comprehensive income.
Further details on hedging are shown in note 24.
Merger reserve This comprises the premium on the share placing in November 2014 and the shares issued in February 2015 as part of the Platou acquisition.
No share premium is recorded in the financial statements, through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Currency translation reserve The currency translation reserve represents the currency translation differences arising from the consolidation of foreign operations.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Financial commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into commercial leases in relation to land and buildings and other assets on the basis that it is not in the Groups best interests to purchase these assets.
The leases expire within one and 11 years and have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Within one year 12.2 11.6 After one year but not more than five years 37.0 37.1 After five years 34.4 44.9 83.6 93.6 The Group has sublet space in certain properties.
The future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sublease agreements as at 31 December 2018 is 0.5m 2017: 0.6m.
Contingencies The Group has given no financial commitments to suppliers 2017: none.
The Group has given no guarantees 2017: none.
From time to time, the Group is engaged in litigation in the ordinary course of business.
The Group carries professional indemnity insurance.
There is currently no litigation that is expected to have a material adverse financial impact on the Groups consolidated results or net assets.
The Group also maintained throughout the financial year Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of its Directors.
24 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise trade and other payables.
The Groups principal financial assets are trade receivables, investments and cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group has not entered into derivative transactions other than the forward currency contracts explained later in this section.
It is, and has been throughout 2018 and 2017, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken for speculative purposes.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign exchange risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
Credit risk The Group seeks to trade only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis and any potential bad debts identified at an early stage.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amounts as disclosed in note 13: based on experience and ongoing market information about the creditworthiness of counterparties, we reasonably expect to collect all amounts unimpaired.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Trade receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, such as the commencement of legal proceedings, financial difficulties of the counterparty, or a significant time period has elapsed since the debt was due.
Impairment losses on trade receivables are presented within operating profit.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the same line item.
With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents and deposits held as current investments, these are considered low risk as the financial institutions used are closely monitored by the Group treasury function to ensure they are held with creditworthy institutions and to ensure there is no over-exposure to any one institution.
For all financial assets held, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
168 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements Liquidity risk Cash flow forecasting is performed at an entity level and also consolidated at a Group level.
This is to ensure there is sufficient cash to meet operational requirements and any regulatory requirements where applicable.
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December based on contractual undiscounted payments.
31 December 2018 Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 3 months months years Total m m m m Trade and other payables 19.5 9.9 29.4 Gross settled foreign currency contracts: Outflow 9.8 21.3 15.4 46.5 Inflow 9.5 20.9 14.8 45.2 19.8 0.4 10.5 30.7 31 December 2017 Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 3 months months years Total m m m m Trade and other payables 21.1 10.6 31.7 Foreign exchange risk The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from revenues and expenses in currencies other than its functional currency, which can significantly impact results and cash flows.
The Groups revenue is mainly denominated in US dollars and the majority of expenses are denominated in local currencies.
The Group also has balance sheet exposures, either at the local entity level where monetary assets and liabilities are held in currencies other than the functional currency, and at a Group level on the retranslation of non-sterling balances into the Groups functional currency.
Our aim is to manage this risk by reducing the impact of any fluctuations.
The Group hedges currency exposure through forward sales of US dollar revenues.
We also sell US dollars on the spot market to meet local currency expenditure requirements.
We also continually assess rates of exchange, non-sterling balances and asset exposures by currency.
The Group is most sensitive to changes in the US dollar exchange rates.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in this rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before taxation and equity.
Effect on Strengthening profit before Effect on weakening in taxation equity rate m m 2018 5% 2.0 5% 1.8 2017 5% 2.0 0.2 5% 1.8 0.2 Derivative financial instruments It is the Groups policy to cover or hedge a proportion of its future transactional US dollar revenues in the UK with foreign currency contracts.
The strategy is to protect the Group against a significant weakening of the US dollar.
See note 4 for total revenues generated in the UK which are predominantly US dollar denominated.
The Group considers the hedge to be effective if each forward contract is settled with the bank and the US dollars sold represent collections from previous months invoicing.
Should the hedging ratio be greater than one that is, contracted sales are greater than US dollar revenues then the hedge is deemed to be ineffective.
Where these are designated and documented as hedging instruments in the context of IFRS 9 and are demonstrated to be effective, mark-to-market gains and losses are recognised directly in equity see note 22.
These are transferred to the income statement, within revenue, upon receipt of cash and conversion to sterling of the underlying item being hedged.
All of the contracts settled during the year were effective.
There were no contracts deemed ineffective during the year.
The fair value of foreign currency contracts at 31 December are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Foreign currency contracts 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2018 the Group had forward contracts of US$40m due for settlement in 2019 at an average rate of US$1.32 1 and US$20m due for settlement in 2020 at an average rate of US$1.35 1 2017: US$35m due for settlement in 2018 at an average rate of US$1.34 1 and US$25m due for settlement in 2019 at an average rate of US$1.31 1.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Total capital is calculated as equity as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
These financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis and the Group continues to pay dividends.
A number of the Groups trading entities are subject to regulation by the Norwegian FSA, the FCA in the UK, the MAS in Singapore and the NFA, SEC and FINRA in the US.
Regulatory capital at entity level depends on the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated.
In each case, the approach is to hold an appropriate surplus over the local minimum requirement.
Each regulated entity complied with their regulatory capital requirements throughout the year.
25 Financial instruments Fair values IFRS 13 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 : inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2 : and inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Assets Investments at fair value through profit or loss FVPL 0.5 8.5 Investments at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI 3.8 Foreign currency contracts 1.3 0.5 8.5 1.3 3.8 Liabilities Other payables 1.3 Foreign currency contracts 1.3 1.3 1.3 FVPL investments are valued based on quoted prices in an active market Level 1 or based on quoted prices for similar assets Level 2, FVOCI investments are categorised as level 3 as the shares are not listed on an exchange and there were no recent observable arms length transactions in the shares.
The fair value of the foreign currency contracts are calculated by management based on external valuations received.
These valuations are calculated based on forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Other payables relates to short sales of equity investments and are valued using quoted prices in an active market.
170 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Financial statements The classification of financial assets and financial liabilities at 31 December is as follows: Financial assets 2018 2017 Fair value through Fair value other through compreprofit or hensive Amortised Hedging Available Loans and loss income cost Total instrumentsfor-sale receivables Total m m m m m m m m Other receivables 6.2 6.2 7.3 7.3 Investments 9.0 3.8 1.7 14.5 5.2 5.5 10.7 Trade receivables 61.7 61.7 44.5 44.5 Foreign currency contracts 1.3 1.3 Cash and cash equivalents 156.5 156.5 161.7 161.7 9.0 3.8 226.1 238.9 1.3 5.2 219.0 225.5 Financial liabilities 2018 2017 Fair value Hedging through profit Amortised Amortised instruments or loss cost Total cost Total m m m m m m Trade payables 12.1 12.1 13.7 13.7 Other payables 1.3 16.0 17.3 18.0 18.0 Foreign currency contracts 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.3 28.1 30.7 31.7 31.7 See note 2 for the impact of the change in accounting policy following the adoption of IFRS 9 on the classification of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The carrying value of current and non-current financial assets and liabilities is deemed to equate to the fair value at 31 December 2018 and 2017.
Net losses on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss amounted to 1.0m.
There were no gains or losses recognised for financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income.
Net gains on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss amounted to 1.1m.
Gains losses on trade receivables measured at amortised cost are shown in note 13.
26 Related party transactions As in 2017, the Group did not enter into any related party transactions during the year, except as noted below.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors There were no key management personnel in the Group apart from the Clarkson PLC Directors.
Details of their compensation are set out below.
2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits 4.8 5.9 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments 0.5 0.7 5.4 6.7 Full remuneration details are provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 108 to 123.
