Glossary Acting Chair Ed Warner, OBE, acted as Code The UK Corporate Governance Code Non-Executive Chair whilst April 2016.
James Hughes-Hallett recovered from Crude oil Unrefined oil.
an illness for the period 26 March 2018 Disclosure Regulations which apply to most larger to 13 February 2019.
Bill Thomas was Guidance and companies on the London Stock appointed Chair on 13 February 2019.
Transparency Exchange, which implement a number of Aframax A tanker size range defined by Clarksons Rules DTR EU Directives on transparency, market as between 85-125,000 dwt.
The AHTS Anchor Handling Tug and Supply vessel.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Used to tow offshore drilling and Rules are supplementary to the Listing production units to location and deploy Rules.
their anchors, and also perform a range Dry market Generic term for the bulk market.
Dry cargo carrier A ship carrying general cargoes AIS Automatic Identification System.
A tracking system using transponders DRR Regulations Large and Medium-sized Companies and GPS information to monitor live and Groups Accounts and Reports ship positions.
Bareboat charter A hire or lease of a vessel from one Dwt Deadweight tonne.
A measure company to another the charterer, expressed in metric tonnes 1,000 kg which in turn provides crew, bunkers, or long tonnes 1,016 kg of a ships stores and pays all operating costs.
carrying capacity, including bunker oil, Board The Board of Directors of Clarkson PLC.
fresh water, crew and provisions.
Bulk cargo Unpackaged cargoes such as coal, This is the most important commercial ore and grain.
Capesize cape Bulk ship size range defined by EPC Engineering, procurement Clarksons as 100,000 dwt or larger.
Used as a measurement EPS Earnings per share.
of cargo capacity for ships such as Executive Andi Case CEO, Jeff Woyda CFO & gas carriers.
Directors COO and Peter M. Anker President CEO Chief Executive Officer, Andi Case.
of Broking and Investment Banking.
CFO & COO Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating External audit An independent opinion of the Group Officer, Jeff Woyda.
and Companys financial statements by an external firm: Cgt Compensated gross tonnage.
This unit of measurement was developed for measuring the level of shipbuilding Fair value Fair value is defined as an amount at output and is calculated by applying which an asset could be exchanged a conversion factor, which reflects the between knowledgeable and willing amount of work required to build a ship, parties in an arms length transaction.
to a vessels gross registered tonnage.
A cash Chair Bill Thomas, appointed 13 February contract for differences requiring no 2019.
Prior to Bills appointment, physical delivery based on freight rates James Hughes-Hallett chaired the on standardised trade routes.
Ed Warner assumed the role Financial The FCA regulates the financial services of Acting Chair for the period 26 March Conduct industry in the UK.
2018 to 13 February 2019 whilst James Authority FCA Hughes-Hallett was temporarily absent Forward order Estimated commissions collectable over from the Board due to illness.
book FOB the duration of the contract as principal Charterer Cargo owner or another person payments fall due.
The forward order company who hires a ship.
Charter party Transport contract between shipowner Freight rate The agreed charge for the carriage and shipper of goods.
of cargo expressed per tonne of cargo ClarkSea Index A weighted average index of earnings also Worldscale in the tanker market for the main vessel types where the or as a lump sum.
weighting is based on the number FSRU Floating Storage and Regasification Unit.
of vessels in each fleet sector.
This vessel type acts as a floating Clean products Refined oil products such as naphtha.
discharge terminal, typically shore-side within a port, to allow a discharge Company Clarkson PLC as a standalone entity, solution for LNG carriers in ports which registered in England and Wales under may only have seasonal gas import company number 1190238. needs, or need a lower-cost solution Containership A cargo ship specifically equipped than a land-based regasification with cell guides for the carriage terminal.
188 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Other information FTSE 250 The share index consisting of the 101st OPEC Organisation of the Petroleum to 350th largest companies listed on the Exporting Countries.
London Stock Exchange main market.
Such as Clarkson PLC has been a member of AHTSs and PSVs.
Ships engaged in the FTSE 250 since 2015. providing support to offshore rigs and FTSE SmallCap The share index consisting of the 351st oil platforms.
to the 619th largest companies listed Panamax Bulk carrier size range defined by on the London Stock Exchange Clarksons as 65-100,000 dwt or tanker main market.
size range defined as 55-85,000 dwt.
Group Clarkson PLC and its subsidiary Containership size range defined undertakings.
as vessels 3,000 TEU capable of transiting the old locks at the Handysize Bulk carrier size range defined by Panama Canal.
Clarksons as 10-40,000 dwt or tanker size range defined by Clarksons as Parent Company Clarkson PLC as a standalone entity, 10-55,000 dwt.
registered in England and Wales under company number 1190238.
Handymax Bulk carrier size range defined by Clarksons as 40-65,000 dwt.
Includes Product tanker Tanker that carries refined oil products.
Used in IFRSs International Financial Reporting supporting offshore rigs and platforms Standards.
A set of international by delivering materials to them accounting standards stating how from onshore.
particular types of transactions and S&P Standard & Poors 500 Index.
An other events should be reported in American stock market index based financial statements.
on the market capitalisations of 500 IMO International Maritime Organisation.
large companies having common stock A United Nations agency devoted listed on the NYSE, NASDAQ or the to shipping.
Independent A Director of the Board, not part of the SCFI Shanghai Containerised Freight Index.
Non-Executive executive management of the Company, An index produced by the Shanghai Directors who is free from any business or other Shipping Exchange reflecting relationship that could materially conflict movements in spot container freight with their ability to exercise independent rates from Shanghai to a selection judgement.
of destinations around the world.
Kamsarmax A sub-sector of the wider panamax Senior Peter Backhouse, who became the SID bulk carrier fleet, defined as vessels Independent on 5 November 2013. with a maximum LOA of 229m so able Director SID to load at the Port of Kamsar in Guinea.
Typically refers to vessels in the 80- Shipbroker A person company who on behalf of 89,999 dwt size range.
a shipowner shipper negotiates a deal KPIs Key performance indicators.
for the transportation of cargo at an Listing Rules Set of regulations overseen by the UK agreed price.
Shipbrokers also act Listing Authority UKLA, which apply on behalf of shipping companies in to any company listed on the London negotiating the purchasing and selling Stock Exchange.
of ships, both secondhand tonnage and newbuilding contracts.
Liquidity risk The risk of the Group being unable to meet its cash and collateral obligations Spot market Short-term contracts for voyage, trip without incurring large losses.
or short-term time charters, normally no longer than three months in duration.
Suezmax A tanker size range defined by Clarksons LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas.
Coated products tanker Supramax A sub-sector of the wider handymax defined by Clarksons as 55,000-85,000 bulk carrier fleet defined by Clarksons dwt.
Coated products tanker defined by Clarksons as 85,000-125,000 dwt.
A product tanker of around 45-55,000 dwt.
MT Metric tonne see tonne.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 189 Glossary continued TEU 20-foot Equivalent Units.
The unit of measurement of a standard 20 foot long container.
Time charter An arrangement whereby a shipowner places a crewed ship at a charterers disposal for a certain period.
Freight is customarily paid periodically in advance.
The charterer also pays for bunker, port and canal charges.
Time Charter Gross freight income less voyage Equivalent TCE costs bunker, port and canal charges, usually expressed in US$ per day.
Tonne Imperial Metric tonne of 2,240 lbs 1,000 kilos 2,204 lbs.
UK Listing The Financial Conduct Authority as Authority competent authority for the purposes of Part IV of the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Ultramax A modern sub-sector of the wider handymax bulk carrier fleet, defined by Clarksons as 60-65,000 dwt, including some vessels up to 70,000 dwt.
VLCC Very Large Crude Carrier.
VLGC Very Large Gas Carrier.
Vessel defined by Clarksons as 65,000 cbm or larger.
Voyage charter The transportation of cargo from port s of loading to port s of discharge.
Payment is normally per tonne of cargo, and the shipowner pays for bunker, port and canal charges.
Voyage costs Costs directly related to a specific voyage e. g. bunker, port and canal charges.
Wet market Generic term for the tanker market.
