04 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Our Businesses Specialist Businesses Close Brothers is a leading UK merchant banking group providing lending, securities trading and wealth management services.
We operate principally in the UK and employ around 3,300 people.
Read more about Banking Banking See pages 34 to 37 Retail Commercial Property 1 Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit Operating profit 81.1m 76.1m 94.6m The Retail segment provides loans to The Commercial segment lends The Property business specialises in predominantly retail customers, through principally to SMEs, both through its short-term residential development anetwork of intermediaries.
direct sales force and via broker finance, refurbishment and bridging loans distribution channels.
in London, the South East and selected The Motor Finance business provides regional locations.
We lend to c. 700 point of sale finance for the acquisition of The Asset Finance business has c. 24,000 professional property developers with a predominantly used cars, motorcycles customers and provides commercial asset focus on small to medium-sized and light commercial vehicles.
It operates financing, hire-purchase and leasing residential developments.
through a network of c. 7,000 independent solutions for a diverse range of assets and motor dealers and has approximately sectors, including the financing of Loan book: 1.8 billion 260,000 customers in the UK and Ireland.
commercial vehicles, machine tools, Average loan size: c. 1.4 million contractors plant, printing equipment, 2 Loan book: 1.7 billion aircraft and medical equipment.
Our highly Typical LTV : 50-60% specialist sales force operates through 15 Average loan size: c. 6,000 offices throughout the UK and Ireland.
2 Typical LTV : 80-85% Loan book: 2.1 billion The Premium Finance business Average loan size: c. 40,000 finances insurance payments for over two 2 million companies and individuals, via a Typical LTV : 85-90% network of c. 1,700 insurance brokers, allowing their customers to spread the The Invoice Finance business works cost of insurance premiums over a with c. 2,300 small businesses, providing number of instalments.
debt factoring, invoice discounting and asset-based lending, and also includes Loan book: 1.0 billion our smaller specialist businesses such as Novitas Loans, a specialist provider of Average loan size: c. 600 finance to the legal profession, and 2 Brewery Rentals, which provides solutions Typical LTV : 90-95% for brewery equipment and container maintenance in the UK and Germany.
Loan book: 0.7 billion Average loan size: c. 400,000 2 Typical LTV : 80% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 05 01 Photographed on location at Alicat Workboats Ltd. 02 Read more about Securities Read more about Asset Management Securities Asset Management See pages 38 and 39 See pages 40 and 41 Winterflood Asset Management Operating profit Adjusted operating profit 28.1m 23.1m 03 Our Securities division comprises Close Brothers Asset Management Winterflood, a leading UK market-maker provides financial advice and investment for retail stockbrokers and institutions.
management services to private clients in Winterflood deals in c. 15,000 securities in the UK.
We offer financial planning advice the UK and overseas, and trades with with over 110 professional advisers across over 600 retail stockbrokers, wealth the country.
We also provide a range of managers, platforms, institutional asset investment management services, managers and other market including full bespoke management, counterparties, providing continuous managed portfolios and funds, distributed liquidity through our market-leading both directly via our own advisers and execution services, supported by our bespoke investment managers, and strong proprietary technology.
Our traders through third party IFAs.
have extensive experience of executing orders in a range of market conditions, Total client assets: 12.2 billion enabling us to trade successfully and Managed assets: 10.4 billion profitably over many years.
Average bargains per day: c. 68,000 Total counterparties: c. 600 Note: Loan to value ratios are for illustrative purposes only and may not be representative of all loan types.
The profile of individual loans may vary significantly.
1 Presented as continuing operations excluding the unsecured retail point of sale finance business, which has been classified as a discontinued operation in the groups income statement.
2 Typical LTV on new business.
Motor Finance LTV is the average LTV in the UK, based on the retail price of the vehicle financed.
Premium Finance LTV is based on premium advanced.
