14 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Business Model Close Brothers has an established reputation as a responsible bank with a distinctive, prudent business model and a long-term approach.
We focus on providing straightforward products and services in sectors we know and understand, and delivering quality and reliability for our clients.
Our business model is based on building leading positions in specialist markets.
We focus on the quality and returns of our business rather than overall growth or market share.
It provides long-term This allows us to reinvest returns for our shareholders in our business through while also maintaining a the economic cycle and strong capital base and consistently support our balance sheet.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 15 We remain committed to our traditional values of service, expertise and relationships alongside teamwork, integrity and prudence, to help the people and businesses of Britain 01 thrive over the long term.
Our Distinctive Approach We focus on our core values which drive The consistent application of strong employee engagement and customer 02 our business model underpins loyalty and are the foundations of our Modern Merchant Banking approach.
our long track record of Each of our businesses is a specialist in performance.
its own niche market, driven by a strong customer led proposition and long-term client relationships.
Preben Prebensen Chief Executive Across our businesses we have a deep knowledge of the industry sectors and asset 03 classes we serve, which allows us to provide firmer lending decisions and faster access to funds when clients need them most.
We apply our lending criteria consistently at all stages in the financial cycle, which protects the quality and returns of our lending while providing continuity of service for our clients.
We take a prudent approach to managing our financial resources.
Wemaintain a prudent maturity profile, with diverse sources of funding, and a conservative capital position throughout the cycle.
Our lending is predominantly secured, with conservative loan to value ratios, small loan sizes and short maturities.
16 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Business Model continued Long established proven Driving sustainable outcomes Resulting in positive outcomes business model and business performance for our stakeholders Strong customer led proposition Consistent client service in all Strong shareholder returns market conditions Our specialist expertise and personal We have achieved consistent profitability approach give us a deep understanding Our prudent approach to managing our and strong returns for shareholders in a of our customers needs and values, financial position and capital base range of market conditions, and continue which allows us to offer high service enables us to lend consistently to our to deliver over the long term.
This is levels and fast, flexible solutions for our clients under responsible terms in all reflected in our progressive dividend clients and intermediaries.
We are there for our policy, which has returned a sustained clients even when others may pull back, and growing dividend to our shareholders and this has contributed to high repeat over many years.
Disciplined approach business and strong customer loyalty through the cycle across our businesses.
Sustained loan book growth We consistently apply our disciplined underwriting criteria, conservative loan We do not manage our businesses to a Engaged employees to value ratios and strong margin at all growth target, but instead prioritise the stages of the financial cycle.
Combined We continue to recruit, develop and consistency of our lending criteria and with maintaining prudent levels of retain high calibre employees by maintaining our strong returns.
The funding, liquidity and capital this recognising their values, supporting and strength of our client proposition has ensureswe remain resilient in a range motivating them to realise their fullest supported a loan book growth of between ofmarket conditions.
Our staff underpin our culture 6% and 23% over the last 10 years across of service, expertise and relationships, a range of market conditions.
alongside teamwork, integrity and Continuous investment within prudence, and are proud of the positive themodel Strong net inflows impact we have on our clients and the We continue to invest in our businesses We continue to increase the scale and communities we operate in.
to enhance our customer proposition profitability of the Asset Management and identify new products and division through strong net inflows from a Sustained business performance opportunities within the boundaries of range of channels.
This year we generated our model.
Our focus on quality of Our strong customer focus and net inflows of 12% on opening managed returns and prudent funding and capital disciplined approach have supported a assets, ahead of our range of between management enables us to reinvest consistently strong return on net loan 6% to 10% annually in previous years.
book at all stages of the financial cycle, ranging from 2.3% to 3.7% over the last Consistent trading profitability 10 years.
Our consistent application of Winterflood has a long track record of underwriting discipline and responsible profitable trading in a wide range of lending criteria has resulted in a low bad market conditions, with no loss days in debt ratioranging from 0.6% to 2.6% the last financial year.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 17 Strong returns Growth Good stakeholder outcomes 1 2 17.0% 7.3bn 89% Return on opening equity, ranging Our loan book is now over 7 billion, Our latest employee survey once again from 10% to 20% over the last and our lending to SMEs and demonstrates strong employee 01 10years.
individuals has more than trebled over engagement across ourbusinesses, with the last 10 years.
63.0p 12% 50 Since listing in 1984, our dividend Annual net inflows are 12% of opening Net promoter scores in excess of 50 has grown progressively to 63.0p managed assets, and have ranged across a number of our businesses, 02 in 2018. from 6% to 10% in the previous including 50 in Premium Finance, 73 in fouryears.
retail deposits and 61 in bespoke assetmanagement, demonstrate consistently high customer satisfaction.
Read more about our employee engagement and net promoter scores See pages 46 and 48 03 1 Based on results from continuing operations, excluding the unsecured retail point of sale finance business, which has been classified as a discontinued operation in the groups income statement.
2 The loan book at 31 July 2018 excludes the unsecured retail point of sale finance loan book of 66.2 million, which was classified as held for sale at the balance sheet date.
Photographed on location at Haynes Ford Ltd.
