Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information Notes to the Group financial statements 31 December 2018 1 GENERAL INFORMATION CLS Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together CLS Holdings or the Group is an investment property group which is principally involved in the investment, management and development of commercial properties, and inotherinvestments.
The Groups principal operations are carried out in the United Kingdom, Germany and France.
The Company is registered in the UK, registration number 2714781, with its registered address at 16 Tinworth Street, London SE11 5AL.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Group financial statements are set out below.
Thesepolicies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Directors Report on page 77 and have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, and the provisions of the Companies Act2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS In the current year, the Group has applied a number of new standards and amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2018.
With the exception of IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
These new standards and amendments are listed below: IFRS 2 amendments Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions IAS 40 amendments Transfers of Investment Property IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and advance consideration IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 9 Financial Listed equity securities see note 16 were previously treated as available for sale and held at fair value Instruments on the balance sheet.
Under IAS 39, movements in fair value were recognised directly in equity through other comprehensive income.
On derecognition or impairment of these assets, any gains previously recognised in equity were recycled to the income statement.
Under IFRS 9, listed equity securities are now classified as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss and fair value movements are recognised directly in the income statement.
On transition to IFRS 9 this resulted in a material reclassification of the available for sale reserve to retained earnings.
The amount reclassified on transition was 17.9 million.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 95 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31 December 2018 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, The Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs thathave been issued but are not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU: IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts IFRS 4 amendments Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 20122014 Cycle IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
In relation to IFRS 16 which has not yet been endorsed by the EU, as the Group is predominantly a lessor this standard will not have a material impact on adoption.
Where the Group is currently a lessee, this relates to immaterial contracts.
2.2 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS I SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control is assumed when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity or business to benefit from its activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until the date control ceases.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
II ASSOCIATES Associates are those entities over which the Group has significant influence but which are not subsidiary undertakings or joint ventures.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
III GOODWILL Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value ofidentifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
It is initially recognised as an asset atcost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as anasset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
2.3 NON CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Non current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary are classified as held for sale when the criteria above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a non-controlling interest in its former subsidiary after sale.
96 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.4 FOREIGN CURRENCY I FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date, and differences arising on translation are recognised in profit before tax.
In relation to financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, exchange differences on the amortised cost of the financial assets are recognised in profit or loss in the finance costs or finance income line item.
Other exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income in the fair value reserve.
For financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss, exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the finance costs or finance income line item.
II CONSOLIDATION OF FOREIGN ENTITIES The results and financial position of all Group entities which have a functional currency different from sterling are translated into sterling as follows: a assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: b income and expenses for each income statement are translated at the average exchange rates: and c all resulting exchange differences are recognised directly in equity in the cumulative translation reserve.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to the cumulative translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised as part of the gain or loss on sale in profit beforetax.
2.5 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Investment properties are those properties held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including related transaction costs.
Additions to investment properties comprise costs of a capital nature: in the case of investment properties under development, these include capitalised interest and certain staff costs directly attributable to the management of the development.
Capitalised interest is calculated at the rate on associated borrowings applied to direct expenditure between the date of gaining planning consent and the date of practical completion.
The acquisition of an investment property is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Group, typically on unconditional exchange of contracts or when legal title passes.
Profit on sale of an investment property is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, typically on unconditional exchange of contracts or when legal title passes.
Investment properties are carried at fair value, based on market value as determined by professional external valuers at thebalance sheet date.
Investment properties being redeveloped for continuing use as investment properties, or for which themarket has become less active, continue to be classified as investment properties and measured at fair value.
Changesinfair values are recognised in profit before tax.
2.6 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment is carried at fair value, based on market value as determined by professional external valuers at the balance sheet date, except for fixtures and fittings and head office fit-out which are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation andany recognised impairment loss.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 97 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31 December 2018 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate cost less estimated residual values over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Fixtures and fittings 45 years Freehold property 6 years Head Office fit-out 10 years Hotel 20 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit before tax.
2.7 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS I DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses derivative financial instruments, including swaps and interest rate caps, to help manage its interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded, and subsequently revalued, at fair value.
Revaluation gains and losses are recognised in profit before tax, except for derivatives which qualify as effective cash flow hedges, thegains and losses relating to which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
II FINANCIAL ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FVTOCI Financial assets classified as at FVTOCI are initially measured at cost, and are subsequently revalued to fair value.
Revaluation gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income, except for impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets.
On disposal, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recycled through profit before tax.
III FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT AND LOSS FVTLP Financial assets at FVTPL are initially measured at cost, and are subsequently revalued to fair value.
Revaluation gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss.
IV CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments which arereadily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
V TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
An impairment provision is created where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the receivable in full.
Trade and other payables are stated atcost, whichequates to fair value.
VI BORROWINGS Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, borrowings are stated atamortised cost with any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value being recognised inprofit before tax over the period of the borrowings, using the effective interest rate method.
2.8 REVENUE I RENTAL INCOME Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The cost of incentives isrecognised over the lease term, on a straight-line basis, as a reduction of rental income.
II SERVICE CHARGE INCOME Service charge income is recognised on a gross basis in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
98 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
