Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information Notes to the Group financial statements 31 December 2018 1 GENERAL INFORMATION CLS Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together CLS Holdings or the Group is an investment property group which is principally involved in the investment, management and development of commercial properties, and inotherinvestments.
The Groups principal operations are carried out in the United Kingdom, Germany and France.
The Company is registered in the UK, registration number 2714781, with its registered address at 16 Tinworth Street, London SE11 5AL.
The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Group financial statements are set out below.
Thesepolicies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Directors Report on page 77 and have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, and the provisions of the Companies Act2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS In the current year, the Group has applied a number of new standards and amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2018.
With the exception of IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
These new standards and amendments are listed below: IFRS 2 amendments Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions IAS 40 amendments Transfers of Investment Property IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and advance consideration IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 9 Financial Listed equity securities see note 16 were previously treated as available for sale and held at fair value Instruments on the balance sheet.
Under IAS 39, movements in fair value were recognised directly in equity through other comprehensive income.
On derecognition or impairment of these assets, any gains previously recognised in equity were recycled to the income statement.
Under IFRS 9, listed equity securities are now classified as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss and fair value movements are recognised directly in the income statement.
On transition to IFRS 9 this resulted in a material reclassification of the available for sale reserve to retained earnings.
The amount reclassified on transition was 17.9 million.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 95
