Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information 22 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2018 2018 2017 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Non-current Interest rate caps and swaps 4.6 0.1 6.9 Current Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.5 0.6 5.1 0.7 6.9 The valuation methods used to measure the fair value of all derivative financial instruments were derived from inputs which were either observable as prices or derived from prices Level 2.
There were no derivative financial instruments accounted for as hedging instruments.
INTEREST RATE SWAPS The aggregate notional principal of interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2018 was 154.9 million 2017: 158.0 million.
The average period to maturity of these interest rate swaps was 2.9 years 2017: 3.9 years.
FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts from time to time to add certainty to, and to minimise the impact of foreign exchange movements on, committed cash flows.
At 31 December 2018 the Group had 15.6 million of outstanding netforeign exchange contracts 2017: 23.3 million.
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets of the Group comprise: interest rate caps: foreign currency forward contracts: financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit and loss: investments in associates: trade and other receivables: and cash and cash equivalents.
Financial liabilities of the Group comprise: interest rate swaps: forward foreign currency contracts: bank loans: unsecured bonds: secured notes: trade and other payables: and current tax liabilities.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined as follows: a Interest rate swaps and caps are measured at the present value of future cash flows based on applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
b Foreign currency options and forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
c The fair values of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Financial assets in this category include financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit and loss such as listed corporate bonds and equity investments.
d In more illiquid conditions, non-derivative financial assets are valued using multiple quotes obtained from market makers and from pricing specialists.
Where the spread of prices is tightly clustered the consensus price is deemed to be fair value.
Where prices become more dispersed or there is a lack of available quoted data, further procedures are undertaken such as evidence from the last non-forced trade.
e The fair values of other non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis, using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 113 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31 December 2018 23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Except for investments in associates and fixed rate loans, the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities recorded atamortised cost approximate to their fair value.
CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and equity balances.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents, other investments and equity attributable to the owners of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
Management perform stress tests of the Groups business model to ensure that the Groups objectives can be met.
The objectives have been met in the year.
The Directors review the capital structure on a quarterly basis to ensure that key strategic goals are being achieved.
As part ofthis review they consider the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
The gearing ratio at the year end was as follows: 2018 2017 m m Debt 842.3 876.7 Liquid resources 130.6 206.0 Net debt 711.7 670.7 Equity 1,123.0 1,033.3 Net debt to equity ratio 63% 65% Debt is defined as long-term and short-term borrowings before unamortised issue costs as detailed in note 21.
Liquid resources are cash and short-term deposits and listed corporate bonds.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to the owners of the Company.
EXTERNALLY IMPOSED CAPITAL REQUIREMENT The Group was subject to externally imposed capital requirements to the extent that debt covenants may require Group companies to maintain ratios such as debt to equity or similar below certain levels.
RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, which can be grouped as: market risk credit risk liquidity risk The Groups overall risk management approach seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance whilst maintaining flexibility.
Risk management is carried out by the Groups treasury department in close co-operation with the Groups operating units and with guidance from the Board of Directors.
The Board regularly assesses and reviews the financial risks and exposures of the Group.
A MARKET RISK The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, and to a lesser extent other price risk.
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk and also uses natural hedging strategies such as matching the duration, interest payments and currency of assets and liabilities.
114 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information 23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued i Interest rate risk The Groups most significant interest rate risk arises from its long-term variable rate borrowings.
Interest rate risk is regularly monitored by the treasury department and by the Board on both a country and a Group basis.
The Boards policy is to mitigate variable interest rate exposure whilst maintaining the flexibility to borrow at the best rates and with consideration to potential penalties on termination of fixed rate loans.
To manage its exposure the Group uses interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and natural hedging from cash held on deposit.
In assessing risk, a range of scenarios is taken into consideration such as refinancing, renewal of existing positions and alternative financing and hedging.
Under these scenarios, the Group calculates the impact on the income statement for a defined movement in the underlying interest rate.
The impact of a reasonably likely movement in interest rates, based on historic trends, is set out below: 2018 2017 Income Income statement statement Scenario m m Cash 50 basis points 0.5 0.7 Variable borrowings including caps 50 basis points 1.7 2.4 Cash -50 basis points 0.5 0.7 Variable borrowings including caps -50 basis points 1.1 1.4 ii Foreign exchange risk The Group does not have any regular transactional foreign exchange exposure.
However, it has operations in Europe which transact business denominated in euros and, to a lesser extent, in Swedish krona.
Consequently, there is currency exposure caused by translating into sterling the local trading performance and net assets for each financial period and balance sheet, respectively.
The policy of the Group is to match the currency of investments with the related borrowing, which largely eliminates foreign exchange risk on property investments.
A portion of the remaining operations, equating to the net assets of the foreign property operations, is not hedged except in exceptional circumstances, such as the uncertainty surrounding the euro in late 2011.
Where foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, the Group will hedge the future committed commercial transaction using foreign exchange swaps or forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Groups principal currency exposures are in respect of the euro and the Swedish krona.
If the value of sterling were to increase or decrease in strength the Groups net assets and profit for the year would be affected.
The impact of a reasonably likely movement in exchange rates, based on historic trends, is set out below: 2018 2018 2017 2017 Net Profit Net Profit assets before tax assets before tax Scenario m m m m 1% increase in value of sterling against the euro 4.5 0.8 3.6 0.8 1% increase in value of sterling against the Swedish krona 0.3 0.3 1% fall in value of sterling against the euro 4.5 0.8 3.6 0.8 1% fall in value of sterling against the Swedish krona 0.3 0.3 iii Other price risk The Group is exposed to corporate bond price risk and to equity securities price risk, because of investments held by the Group and classified in the balance sheet as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit and loss.
In order to manage the risk in relation to the holdings of corporate bonds and equity securities the Group holds a diversified portfolio.
Diversification of the portfolio is managed in accordance with the limits set by the Group.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 115 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31 December 2018 23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The table below shows the effect on other comprehensive income which would result from an increase or decrease of 10% inthe market value of corporate bonds and listed equity securities, which is an amount management believes to be reasonable inthe current market: 2018 2017 Other Other comprehensive comprehensive income income Scenario: Shift of 10% in valuations m m 10% fall in value 10.8 12.1 10% increase in value 10.8 12.1 B CREDIT RISK Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Credit risk arises from the ability of customers to meet outstanding receivables and future lease commitments, and from financial institutions with which the Group places cash and cash equivalents, and enters into derivative financial instruments.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is partly represented by the carrying amounts of the financial assets which are carried inthe balance sheet, including derivatives with positive fair values.
For credit exposure other than to occupiers, the Directors believe that counterparty risk is minimised to the fullest extent possible as the Group has policies which limit the amount of credit exposure to any individual financial institution.
The Group has policies in place to ensure that rental contracts are made with customers with an appropriate credit history.
Credit risk to customers is assessed by a process of internal and external credit review, and is reduced by obtaining bank guarantees from the customer or its parent, and rental deposits.
The overall credit risk in relation to customers is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Moreover, a significant proportion of the Group portfolio is let to Government occupiers which can be considered financially secure.
At 31 December 2018 the Group held 107.8 million 2017: 121.6 million of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit and loss.
Management considers the credit risk associated with individual transactions and monitors the risk on a continuing basis.
Information is gathered from external credit rating agencies and other market sources to allow management to react to any perceived change in the underlying credit risk of the instruments in which the Group invests.
This allows the Group to minimise its creditexposure to such items and at the same time to maximise returns for shareholders.
The table below shows the external Standard & Poors credit banding on the financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit and loss held bythe Group: 2018 2017 S&P credit rating at balance sheet date m m Investment grade 5.0 6.7 Non-investment grade 24.6 52.7 Not rated 78.2 62.2 Total 107.8 121.6 116 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information 23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued C LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk management requires maintaining sufficient cash, other liquid assets and the availability of funding to meet short, medium and long-term requirements.
The Group maintains adequate levels of liquid assets to fund operations and to allow theGroup to react quickly to potential opportunities.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity on the basis of expected cash flows so that future requirements can be managed effectively.
The majority of the Groups debt is arranged on an asset-specific, non-recourse basis.
This allows the Group a higher degree offlexibility in dealing with potential covenant defaults than if the debt was arranged under a Group-wide borrowing facility.
Loan covenant compliance is closely monitored by the treasury department.
Potential covenant breaches can ordinarily be avoided by placing additional security or a cash deposit with the lender, or by partial repayment to cure an event of default.
The table below analyses the Groups contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, into relevant maturity groupings based on the period remaining to the contractual maturity date.
Amounts due within one year are equivalent to the carrying values in the balance sheet astheimpact of discounting is not significant.
Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years At 31 December 2018 m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Borrowings 68.2 136.3 493.7 144.1 1 Interest payments on borrowings 20.5 18.8 22.7 3.8 Trade and other payables 51.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts: Cash flow hedges Outflow 0.5 Inflow 0.5 Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years At 31 December 2017 m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Borrowings 98.0 122.8 553.1 102.8 1 Interest payments on borrowings 26.9 27.2 24.4 26.3 Trade and other payables 48.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts: Cash flow hedges Outflow 0.6 Inflow 0.6 1 Interest payments on borrowings are calculated without taking into account future events.
Floating rate interest is estimated using a future interest rate curve asat31December.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 117
