Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements 31 December 2018 1 GENERAL INFORMATION These separate financial statements are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and prepared on the historical costbasis.
The Company has applied UK GAAP Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 incorporating the Amendments to FRS 101 issued by the FRC in July 2015 other than those relating to legal changes and has not applied the amendments to Company law made by The Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2015 that are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
CLS Holdings plc is the ultimate parent company of the CLS Holdings Group.
Its primary activity which occurs exclusively within the United Kingdom is to hold shares in subsidiary companies.
2 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard inrelation to capital management, presentation of a cash flow statement, presentation of comparative information in respect ofcertain assets, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the Group financial statements.
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
3.1 GOING CONCERN The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts as detailed in the Directors Report on page 77.
3.2 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Dividend income isrecognised when received.
3.3 PENSION COSTS The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for all eligible employees.
The pension costs charged represent the contributions payable.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
3.4 SHARE CAPITAL Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from proceeds, net of tax.
Where a Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included inequityattributable to the owners of the Company.
3.5 FOREIGN CURRENCIES The financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates, known as its functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the Companys functional currency are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in other currencies are translated into sterling at the rates prevailing atthat date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in other currencies are translated into sterling at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in aforeign currency are not translated.
128 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
