Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information 22 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2018 2018 2017 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Non-current Interest rate caps and swaps 4.6 0.1 6.9 Current Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.5 0.6 5.1 0.7 6.9 The valuation methods used to measure the fair value of all derivative financial instruments were derived from inputs which were either observable as prices or derived from prices Level 2.
There were no derivative financial instruments accounted for as hedging instruments.
INTEREST RATE SWAPS The aggregate notional principal of interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2018 was 154.9 million 2017: 158.0 million.
The average period to maturity of these interest rate swaps was 2.9 years 2017: 3.9 years.
FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts from time to time to add certainty to, and to minimise the impact of foreign exchange movements on, committed cash flows.
At 31 December 2018 the Group had 15.6 million of outstanding netforeign exchange contracts 2017: 23.3 million.
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets of the Group comprise: interest rate caps: foreign currency forward contracts: financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit and loss: investments in associates: trade and other receivables: and cash and cash equivalents.
Financial liabilities of the Group comprise: interest rate swaps: forward foreign currency contracts: bank loans: unsecured bonds: secured notes: trade and other payables: and current tax liabilities.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined as follows: a Interest rate swaps and caps are measured at the present value of future cash flows based on applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
b Foreign currency options and forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
c The fair values of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Financial assets in this category include financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit and loss such as listed corporate bonds and equity investments.
d In more illiquid conditions, non-derivative financial assets are valued using multiple quotes obtained from market makers and from pricing specialists.
Where the spread of prices is tightly clustered the consensus price is deemed to be fair value.
Where prices become more dispersed or there is a lack of available quoted data, further procedures are undertaken such as evidence from the last non-forced trade.
e The fair values of other non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis, using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 113
