Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.9 INCOME TAX Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method on temporary differences between the carrying value ofassets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the values used for tax purposes.
Temporary differences are not provided for when they arise from initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities inatransaction that does not affect accounting or taxable profit.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount ofassets and liabilities, and is calculated using rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, in the tax jurisdiction in which the temporary differences arise.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in arriving at profit after tax, except when it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax isalso recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be used.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset if they relate to income taxes levied by thesame taxation authority, there is a legally enforceable right of set-off and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS In accordance with IAS 1, the Directors have considered the judgements that have been made in the process of applying theGroups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, and which of those judgements have the most significant effecton amounts recognised in the financial statements.
In the opinion of the Directors, the following critical judgement was made for the year ended 31 December 2018: DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Note 24 describes the proposed disposal of First Camp Sverige Holding AB First Camp which is expected to complete in early 2019.
This transaction has resulted in two significant judgements: first, the decision to treat First Camp as a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, as the transaction represents the exit of the Groups operational revenue earning activities in Sweden: and secondly, the recognition of a loss arising from the remeasurement of the investment to fair value less costs to sell.
As a result of the reclassification of First Camp to discontinued operations, the 2017 comparative amounts in the group income statement, group statement of comprehensive income, group balance sheet, group statement of cash flows and respective notes have been restated as appropriate.
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The Group uses the valuations performed by its independent external valuers as the fair value of its investment properties.
Thevaluations are based upon assumptions including future rental income, anticipated maintenance costs, future development costs and an appropriate discount rate see note 13 for more detail.
The valuers also make reference to market evidence oftransaction prices for similar properties.
4 SEGMENT INFORMATION The Group has two operating divisions Investment Property and Other Investments.
Other Investments comprise the hotel at Spring Mews, corporate bonds, shares in Catena AB and other small corporate investments.
The Group manages the Investment Property division on a geographical basis due to its size and geographical diversity.
Consequently, the Groups principal operating segments are: Investment Property: United Kingdom Germany France Sweden Other Investments CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 99
