SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REGISTRAR PUBLISHED INFORMATION All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings in the If you would like to receive a hard copy of this Annual Report and or Company should be directed to Link Asset Services the registrar, a copy of the Notice of Annual General Meeting in an appropriate The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: alternative format such as large print, Braille or an audio version telephone within the UK: Freephone 0800 029 4520 and from onCD, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass overseas: 44 333 300 1568: email: enquiries@linkgroup.
Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ.
Our 2018 Annual Report and the Notice of Meeting are Shareholders can register online to view their Compass Group PLC available at www.
shareholding details using the Share Portal, a service offered by the registrar, at www.
Shareholders registering for the CASH DIVIDENDS Share Portal will require their investor code which is shown on share The Company normally pays a dividend twice each year.
The service enables shareholders to: encourage UK resident ordinary shareholders to elect to have their dividends paid directly into their bank or building society account.
check their shareholdings in Compass Group PLC 24 hours a day This is a more secure method of payment and avoids delays or the gain easy access to a range of shareholder information including cheques being lost.
Most ordinary shareholders resident outside the indicative valuation and payment instruction details UK can also have any dividends in excess of 10 paid into their appoint a proxy to attend general meetings of Compass Group PLC bank account directly via Link Asset Services global payments ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS service.
Details and terms and conditions may be viewed at http: ips.
The Companys Annual Report and all other shareholder communications can be found on our website at DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN DRIP www.
The Company can, at shareholders A DRIP service is provided by Link Market Services Trustees request, send shareholders an email notification each time a new Limited.
The DRIP allows eligible shareholders to use the whole shareholder report or other shareholder communication is placed on of their cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, its website.
This enables shareholders to read and or download the thereby increasing their shareholding.
Additional information, information at their leisure.
including details of how to sign up, can be obtained from the The provision of a facility to communicate with shareholders Companys website at www.
com and from Link electronically does not discriminate between registered shareholders Market Services Trustees Limited: telephone within the UK: of the same class.
The facility is available to allregistered Freephone 0800 029 4520 and from overseas: 44 333 300 1568: shareholders on equal terms and participation is madeassimple email: shares@linkgroup.
Please note that it is the shareholders responsibility to The latest date for receipt of new applications to participate in the notify the registrar through www.
com or by post of any DRIP in respect of the 2018 final dividend is 4 February 2019. change to their email address.
Before electing forelectronic communication, shareholders should ensure that theyhave the SHARE PRICE INFORMATION appropriate computer capabilities.
The Company takes all The price of the Companys shares is available on the Companys reasonable precautions to ensure no viruses are presentinany website at www.
This is supplied with a 15 communication it sends out, but cannot accept anyresponsibility for minute delay to real time.
loss or damage arising from the opening oruseof any email or attachments from the Company and recommends that shareholders SHARE DEALING subject all messages to virus checking procedures prior to use.
The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building Please note that any electronic communication sent by a societies, stockbrokers or share shops.
In addition, the Companys shareholder to the Company or the registrar containing a computer registrar offers online and telephone dealing services to buy or sell virus will not be accepted.
The service is only available to private shareholders aged 18 or over, resident in the UK, EEA, Channel The Companys obligation is satisfied when it transmits an Islands or Isle of Man.
Full details can be obtained from electronicmessage.
It cannot be held responsible for a failure in www.
com or by telephoning within the UK: transmission beyond its control.
In the event that the Company Freephone 0800 029 4520. becomes aware that an electronic transmission is not successful, apaper notification will be sent to the shareholder at their registered address.
Shareholders wishing to continue to receive shareholder information in the traditional paper format should confirm this viawww.
com or write to Link Asset Services.
190 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREGIFT WARNING ABOUT SHARE FRAUD ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service Investment scams are often sophisticated and difficult to spot.
forshareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes.
It is Fraudsters use persuasive and high pressure tactics to lure investors particularly useful for those shareholders who may wish to dispose into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be ofa small quantity of shares where the market value makes it worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further information return for an upfront payment.
canbe obtained from ShareGifts website at www.
org: Whilst high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way, telephone within the UK: 020 7930 3737 and from overseas: you will probably lose your money.
org, or from the registrar.
HOW TO AVOID SHARE FRAUD AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS keep in mind that firms authorised by the Financial Conduct BNY Mellon BNY maintains the Companys American Authority FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an DepositaryReceipt register.
If you have any enquiries about your offer to buy or sell shares holding ofCompass American Depositary Shares, you should do not get into a conversation.
Note the name of the person and contact BNYMellon, Shareowner Services, Computershare, firm contacting you and then end the call P. O. Box30170, College Station TX 77842-3170, USA or check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk to see if shrrelations@.
Further information the person and firm contacting you are authorised by the FCA canbe found on BNYs website at www.
com using beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, thesymbol CMPGY and at www.
copying its website or giving you false contact details UNSOLICITED MAIL use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to We are legally obliged to make our register of members available call it back tothe public, subject to a proper purpose test.
As a consequence of call the FCA on: Freephone 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not this, some shareholders might receive unsolicited mail.
Shareholders have contact details on the Register or if you are told they are out wishing to limit the amount of such mail should write to the Mailing of date Preference Service, MPS FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London W1E search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
Shareholders can also register online at www.
uk consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm or request an application form by calling from within the UK: 0345 you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or 0700 705 or by email: mps@dma.
For all other queries the Financial Services Compensation Scheme please contact the MPS team from within the UK: 020 7291 3310. think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money dont use an advisor from the IDENTITY THEFT firm that contacted you Advice on protecting your Compass Group PLC shares: remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
keep all Compass correspondence in a safe place, or destroy REPORT A SCAM correspondence by shredding when changing address, inform the registrar, Link Asset Services.
If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the FCA using the If a letter from Link Asset Services is received regarding a share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scamsmart, where you changeof address and you have not moved, contact the can find out more about investment scams, or call the FCA registrarimmediately Consumer Helpline on: Freephone 0800 111 6768. consider having your dividends paid directly into your bank or If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you building society account.
This will reduce the risk of the cheque should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online at being intercepted or lost in the post.
You can complete a Request www.
for Payment of Interest or Dividends form which are available from and should be returned to the registrar.
Alternatively, register online at www.
com using the Share Portal service.
Ifyou require further information please contact the registrar on changing your bank or building society account, inform the registrar of the details of the new account and respond to any letters Link Asset Services send you about this when buying or selling shares, deal only with brokers registered inyour country of residence or the UK Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 191 Shareholder information continued FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2019 17 18 4 7 25 15 20 21 8 29 26 JAN JAN FEB FEB FEB MAY JUN JUN JUL JUL NOV EX-DIVIDEND RECORD LAST DAY ANNUAL PAYMENT HALF YEAR EX-DIVIDEND RECORD LAST DAY PAYMENT FULL YEAR DATE FOR DATE FOR FOR DRIP GENERAL DATE FOR FINANCIAL DATE FOR DATE FOR FOR DRIP DATE FOR FINANCIAL 2018 FINAL 2018 FINAL ELECTIONS MEETING 2018 FINAL RESULTS 2019 2019 ELECTIONS 2019 RESULTS DIVIDEND DIVIDEND DIVIDEND INTERIM INTERIM INTERIM DIVIDEND DIVIDEND DIVIDEND At the date ofdisclosure 2014 RETURN OF CASH AND SHARE CAPITAL 2017 SHAREHOLDER RETURN AND SHARE CONSOLIDATION BASE COST CAPITAL CONSOLIDATION TAX INFORMATION APPORTIONMENT FOR UKTAX PURPOSES On 7 June 2017, shareholders approved a return of 61.0 pence per Existing Ordinary Share, which resulted in approximately 1 billion On 11 June 2014, shareholders approved a Return of Cash being returned to shareholders by way of a special dividend the of56pence per Existing Ordinary Share, which resulted in Shareholder Return.
The Shareholder Return was accompanied by approximately 1 billion being returned through the issue of one a Share Capital Consolidation of the Existing Ordinary Shares in the Bor C Share to shareholders for each Existing Ordinary Share held ratio of 25 New Ordinary Shares for every 26 Existing Ordinary at 6.00pm on 7 July 2014.
The Return of Cash was accompanied Shares held at 6.00pm on 26 June 2017.
The New Ordinary Shares bya consolidation of the Existing Ordinary Shares in the ratio of were admitted to trading on 27 June 2017.
16New Ordinary Shares for every 17 Existing Ordinary Shares.
TheNew Ordinary Shares were admitted to trading on 8 July 2014.
The New Ordinary Shares arising from the Share Consolidation result The B and C Shares were not admitted to trading.
from a reorganisation of the share capital of the Company.
Accordingly, to the extent that a Shareholder received New Ordinary The Base Cost Apportionment is in general terms based on Shares, the Shareholder should not be treated as making a disposal respective market values on the first day after the reorganisation on of all or part of the Shareholders holding of Existing Ordinary Shares which a price for the New Ordinary Shares was quoted on the by reason of the Share Consolidation being implemented, and the London Stock Exchange.
Based on the New Ordinary Share price of New Ordinary Shares which replaced a Shareholders holding of 1,024.50 pence and the market value of a B Share and of a C Share Existing Ordinary Shares as a result of the Share Consolidation will of 56 pence, and calculated using the ratio of 16 New Ordinary be treated as the same asset acquired at the same time as when the Shares and 17 B or 17 C Shares for every 17 Existing Ordinary Shareholders holding of Existing Ordinary Shares was acquired.
Shares previously held, 94.51% of the base cost of the Existing Ordinary Shares was apportioned to the New Ordinary Shares and 5.49% to the B and or C Shares.
The information provided is only intended to provide general guidance to UK shareholders and is not intended to be, and should not be construed to be legal or taxation advice to any particular UK shareholder.
It states the position as of 9 July 2014 and 15 May 2017 respectively.
If you are in any doubt as to your tax position, you are recommended to seek tax advice from an independent professional advisor.
This note must be read in conjunction with the Circulars to Shareholders dated 19 May 2014 and 15 May 2017, where certain terms are defined.
192 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018
