SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 16.3 incur political expenditure, during the period commencing on the date of this Resolution and ending on the date of THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND the Companys next Annual General Meeting, provided REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION that any such donations and expenditure made by the Company, or by any such subsidiary, shall not exceed If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, 100,000 per company and, together with those made by you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank any such subsidiary and the Company, shall not exceed manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent in aggregate 100,000. financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise Any terms used in this Resolution 16 which are defined in transferred all your shares in Compass Group PLC, please Part14 of the Companies Act 2006 shall bear the same send this Notice and the accompanying documents to the meaning for the purposes of this Resolution.
purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or 17.
To approve, in accordance with section 226B 1 b of the other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected Companies Act 2006, the payment by the Company to each for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
ofits non-executive directors, with effect from the date on whichthis Resolution is passed, of the full fee payable to themin respect of each non-executive role they perform for Notice is hereby given that the eighteenth Annual General Meeting theCompany without regard to the annual cap of 125,000 of Compass Group PLC the Company will be held at 12 noon on onthe aggregate fees payable to each non-executive director Thursday 7 February 2019 in the Live Room at Rugby Football ofthe Company set out in the Companys Remuneration Union, Rugby House, Twickenham Stadium, 200 Whitton Road, Policyapproved at the Companys Annual General Meeting Twickenham, Middlesex TW2 7BA the Meeting the AGM in order on8February 2018. to transact the following business: 18.
18.1 To renew the power conferred on the directors by Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association for a period To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, of expiring at the end of the next Annual General Meeting which Resolutions 19 to 22 will be proposed as special resolutions ofthe Company after the date on which this Resolution and all other Resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
ispassed or, if earlier, at close of business on 6 May 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2020: and for that period the section 551 amount shall and the Auditors Report thereon for the financial year ended 30 be58,410,300.
18.2 In addition, the section 551 amount shall be increased 2.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report for the by 58,410,300 for a period expiring at the end of the financial year ended 30 September 2018. next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the 3.
To declare a final dividend of 25.4 pence per ordinary share in date on which this Resolution is passed, provided that respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2018. the directors power in respect of such latter amount shall only be used in connection with a rights issue: 4.
To elect John Bryant as a director of the Company.
1 to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as 5.
To elect Anne-Francoise Nesmes as a director of the Company.
nearly as may be practicable to their existing 6.
To re-elect Dominic Blakemore as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Gary Green as a director of the Company.
2 to holders of other equity securities as required 8.
To re-elect Carol Arrowsmith as a director of the Company.
by the rights of those securities or as the directors 9.
To re-elect John Bason as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Stefan Bomhard as a director of the Company.
and that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary to deal 11.
To re-elect Nelson Silva as a director of the Company.
with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under 12.
To re-elect Ireena Vittal as a director of the Company.
the laws of, or the requirements of, any relevant regulatory body 13.
To re-elect Paul Walsh as a director of the Company.
or stock exchange, any territory, or any matter whatsoever.
To reappoint KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor until the SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
To authorise the directors, subject to the passing of Resolution 18, 15.
To authorise the Audit Committee to agree the auditors and in accordance with the power conferred on the directors by remuneration.
Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association, to allot equity 16.
To authorise the Company and any company which is, or securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash becomes, a subsidiary of the Company during the period to under the authority given by that Resolution and or to sell which this Resolution relates, to: ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for 16.1 make donations to political parties or independent cash as if section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply election candidates: to any such allotment or sale, such authority to be limited: 16.2 make donations to political organisations other than political parties: and Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 193 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 1 19.1 to allotments for rights issues and other pre-emptive 11 20 pence each in the capital of the Company subject to the issues: and following conditions: 19.2 to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury 21.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares shares otherwise than under paragraph 19.1 above hereby authorised to be purchased is 158,500,000: upto a nominal amount of 8,751,600 being not more 21.2 the minimum price excluding expenses which may be than 5%of the issued ordinary share capital excluding 1 paid for each ordinary share is 11 20 pence: treasury shares of the Company as at 1 December 21.3 the maximum price excluding expenses which may 2018, being the last practicable date prior to the be paid for each ordinary share in respect of a share publication of this Notice, contracted to be purchased on any day, does not exceed such authority to expire at the end of the next Annual General the higher of 1 an amount equal to 105% of the average Meeting of the Company, or, if earlier, at the close of business of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as on 6 May 2020, but in each case, prior to the expiry the derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which List for the five business days immediately preceding the would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and day on which the purchase is made and 2 the higher treasury shares to be sold after the authority expires and the of the price of the last independent trade and the highest directors may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not from the London Stock Exchange Trading System: and expired.
21.4 this authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, 20.
To authorise the directors subject to the passing of Resolution varied or revoked by the Company, at the conclusion of 18 and in accordance with the power conferred on the directors the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or close by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association and in of business on 6 August 2020, whichever is the earlier addition to any authority granted under Resolution 19 to allot except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares, the equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for contract for which was concluded prior to the expiry of cash under the authority given by that Resolution and or to sell this authority and which will or may be executed wholly or ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for partly after the expiry of this authority.
cash as if section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply 22.
To authorise the directors to call a general meeting of the to any such allotment or sale, such authority to be: Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less 20.1 limited to the allotment of equity shares or sale of treasury than 14 clear working days notice, provided that this authority shares up to a nominal amount of 8,751,600 being shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General not more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital Meeting of the Company after the date of the passing of excluding treasury shares of the Company as at 1 thisResolution.
December 2018, being the last practicable date prior to Voting on all Resolutions will be by way of a poll.
the publication of this Notice: By Order of the Board 20.2 used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after the original transaction a transaction which the directors determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Alison Yapp Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published Group General Counsel and Company Secretary by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this Notice, 17 December 2018 such authority to expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, at close of business on Registered Office: 6May 2020, but in each case, prior to its expiry the Company Compass House may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or Guildford Street might require equity securities to be allotted and treasury Chertsey shares to be sold after the authority expires and the directors Surrey KT16 9BQ may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
To generally and unconditionally authorise the Company, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of that Act of ordinary shares of 194 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION make donations and incur expenditure which might otherwise be EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS caught by the terms of the CA 2006, up to an aggregate amount of RESOLUTION 1 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 100,000 for the Company and for subsidiary companies.
The directors are required to present to the AGM the audited Accounts and the Directors and Auditors Reports for the financial RESOLUTION 17 PAYMENT OF FEES TO year ended 30 September 2018.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Company is seeking shareholder approval to pay each of its RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS non-executive directors the full fee payable to them in respect of REMUNERATIONREPORT each non-executive role they perform for the Company.
In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006, shareholders are requested to approve the Directors MEMORANDUM Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set AS REQUIRED BY S226D CA 2006 out on pages 71 to 93 of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Companys current directors Remuneration Policy, approved The vote is advisory.
byshareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 8February 2018, imposes an annual cap of 125,000 on the fees RESOLUTION 3 FINAL DIVIDEND payable to any non-executive director.
The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2018 will bepaid on 25 February 2019 to shareholders on the register The Remuneration Policy permits non-executive directors to be paid attheclose of business on 18 January 2019, subject to separate fees for different non-executive roles they perform for the shareholderapproval.
These currently comprise an annual base fee for serving as non-executive director currently 86,000 : an additional annual RESOLUTIONS 4 TO 13 ELECTION AND fee for serving as chairman of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility RE-ELECTION OFDIRECTORS and Remuneration Committees currently 30,000 : and an Biographical details of all the directors standing for election and additional annual fee currently 30,000 for serving as Senior re-election appear on pages 49 to 51 of the 2018 Annual Report.
Under the Remuneration Policy, the The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the aggregate fees payable to a non-executive director who performs directors to retire by rotation each year and no director may serve several such non-executive roles simultaneously are subject to the for more than three years without being re-elected by shareholders.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The effect of the cap is that non-executive directors may not be 2016 the Code, all the directors will submit themselves for annual entitled to receive the full fee otherwise payable for each role they re-election by shareholders.
The Company is of the view that non-executive directors Having conducted an evaluation during the year, it is the view of should be appropriately and fairly remunerated for the roles they theChairman that the performance of each of the directors perform.
The Company is therefore now proposing that it should be continues to be effective and that each director demonstrates permitted to pay each non-executive director the full fee payable for commitment to the role and has sufficient time to meet his or her each non-executive role he or she performs for the Company, commitment to the Company.
without reference to the 125,000 annual cap.
No other changes are proposed to the Companys overall approach to payment of fees RESOLUTIONS 14 AND 15 AUDITOR to non-executive directors, as set out in the shareholder approved The auditor is appointed at every general meeting at which Remuneration Policy.
The current appointment ofKPMGLLP as the Companys auditor will end at the conclusion As the payment of fees without reference to the annual fee cap for ofthe AGM and it has advised of its willingness to stand for non-executive directors would be outside the current Remuneration reappointment.
In accordance with provisions of the Code, it is best Policy, it requires approval by shareholders in a general meeting recommended practice for the Audit Committee to be authorised to under Section 226B 1 b of the CA 2006. agree how much the auditor should be paid and Resolution 15 This Memorandum comprises the payment particulars grants this authority to the Audit Committee.
memorandum in respect of the approval of payment to nonRESOLUTION 16 DONATIONS TO executive directors that is required to be made available for POLITICALPARTIES inspection by shareholders in accordance with Section 226D of the It is not Group policy to make donations to political parties.
It will therefore be available for inspection during normal it is possible that certain routine activities undertaken by the business hours from the date of dispatch of this Notice until the date Company and its subsidiaries might unintentionally fall within the of the AGM Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at wide definition of matters constituting political donations and the registered office of the Company, Compass House, Guildford expenditure in the CA 2006.
Any expenditure that is regulated under Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ and will also be made available the CA 2006 must first be approved by shareholders and will be at the AGM for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during the disclosed in next years Annual Report.
This Resolution, if passed, continuance of the AGM.
This Memorandum shall also be available will renew the directors authority until the AGM to be held in 2020 for inspection on the Companys website from the date of this Notice 2020 AGM when the directors intend to renew this authority to until the conclusion of the AGM.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 195 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued RESOLUTION 18 DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO RESOLUTIONS 19 AND 20 DISAPPLICATION OF ALLOT SHARES PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS The purpose of Resolution 18 is to renew the directors power to allot If the Company issues new shares, or sells treasury shares, for cash shares.
Resolution 18.1 seeks to grant the directors authority to allot, other than in connection with an employee share scheme, it must pursuant to Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association and first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing section 551 of the CA 2006, relevant securities with a maximum holdings.
In accordance with investor guidelines, approval is sought nominal amount of 58,410,300.
This represents 528,600,000 by the directors to issue a limited number of ordinary shares for cash 1 ordinary shares of 11 20 pence each in the capital of the Company, without offering them to existing shareholders.
which is approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary The Pre-Emption Group which represents the Investment share capital excluding treasury shares as at 1 December 2018 Association and the Pension and Lifetime Savings Association being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this published a revised statement of principles for the disapplication of Notice.
TheCompany currently holds 3,837,253 shares in treasury.
pre-emption rights the Principles in 2015.
The Principles provide The authoritywould, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied that a general authority for the disapplication of pre-emption rights byshareholders, remain in force up to the conclusion of the over approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share 2020AGMof the Company or close of business on 6 May 2020, capital should be treated as routine.
This general authority, which whichever is earlier.
the directors have sought and received in previous years, is dealt In accordance with the Investment Association Share Capital with under Resolution 19.
Management Guidelines the Guidelines, Resolution 18.2 seeks to Subject to the passing of Resolution 18, Resolution 19 seeks to grant the directors authority to allot approximately a further one third replace the authority conferred on the directors at the 8 February of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury 2018 Annual General Meeting 2018 AGM to allot ordinary shares, shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, ordinary shareholders with a nominal value of up to 58,410,300 shares or sell treasury shares for cash other than pursuant to an 1 representing 528,600,000 ordinary shares of 11 20 pence each.
employee equity incentive share scheme up to an aggregate Such additional authority will be valid until the conclusion of the nominal value of approximately 5% of the Companys issued 2020 AGM.
ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares without application If the Company uses any of the additional one third authority of pre-emption rights pursuant to Article 13 of the Companys permitted by the Guidelines, the Company will ensure that all Articles of Association and section 561 of the CA 2006.
Other than directors stand for re-election.
The Companys current practice is in connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, the that all directors submit themselves for re-election each year in authority contained in this Resolution 19 would be limited to a accordance with the Code, notwithstanding the provisions set out in maximum nominal amount of 8,751,600. the Guidelines.
The Pre-Emption Group further provides that the Company may, as The total authorisation sought by Resolution 18 is equal to routine, seek to disapply pre-emption rights over the equivalent of approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the approximately an additional 5% of the issued ordinary share capital Company excluding treasury shares as at 1 December 2018, being of the Company, so long as certain criteria are met.
the last practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Subject to the passing of Resolution 18 and in addition to the Resolutions 1 to 18 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and authority granted by Resolution 19, Resolution 20 seeks to replace require that more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of a the authority conferred on the directors at the 2018 AGM to allot resolution for it to be passed.
ordinary shares, or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, ordinary shares or sell treasury shares for cash other than pursuant to an employee equity incentive share scheme up to an aggregate nominal value of approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares without application of pre-emption rights pursuant to Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association and section 561 of the CA 2006, provided that this authority will only be used for the purpose of: i an acquisition: or ii a specified capital investment in respect of which sufficient information regarding the effect of the investment on the Company, the assets that are the subject of the investment and where appropriate the profits attributable to those assets is made available to shareholders to enable them to reach an assessment of the potential return on the investment 196 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION which is announced contemporaneously with the issue or which has No share repurchases were made during the financial year ended taken place in the preceding six month period and is disclosed in 30 September 2018 or to the date of this Notice.
However, the the announcement of the issue.
directors consider it desirable for such general authority to be available in order to maintain an efficient capital structure whilst at Other than in connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other the same time retaining the flexibility to fund any infill acquisitions.
similar issue, the authority contained in this Resolution 20 would be limited to a maximum nominal amount of 8,751,600.
As at 1 December 2018 being the last practicable date prior to 1 thepublication of this Notice there were 1,589,736,625 11 20 Together, Resolutions 19 and 20 represent 158,400,000 ordinary 1 pence ordinary shares in issue and 3,837,253 11 20 pence ordinary 1 shares of 11 20 pence each in the capital of the Company, which is shares held in treasury for the purpose of satisfying the Companys approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital obligations under employee equity incentive schemes.
Shares held excluding treasury shares as at 1 December 2018 being the last in treasury are not eligible to participate in dividends and do not practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
The authority carry any voting rights.
would, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company As at 1 December 2018 being the last practicable date prior to to be held in 2020 or close of business on 6 May 2020, if earlier.
thepublication of this Notice, there were options to subscribe forordinary shares issued by the Company outstanding over Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share approximately 6,401,713 shares which represent 0.40% of the schemes and any share dividend alternatives, the directors have Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares nocurrent plans to utilise the authorities sought by Resolutions 18, at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary 19 and 20, although they consider their renewal appropriate in shares wasexercised in full, these options would represent 0.45% of orderto retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of business theCompanys issued ordinary share capital excluding opportunities as they arise.
In addition, and in line with best treasuryshares.
practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non-pro rata basis over the last three years.
The RESOLUTION 22 NOTICE OF MEETINGS OTHER limit also applies to shares issued from treasury.
A renewal of this THAN ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS authority will be proposed at each subsequent AGM and the The Companys Articles of Association allow the directors to call directors confirm their intention to follow best practice set out in general meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 clear working days thePrinciples which provides that usage of this authority in excess notice.
However, under the Companies Shareholders Rights of7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in a rolling three Regulations 2009 the Regulations, all general meetings must be yearperiod would not take place without prior consultation held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter withshareholders.
notice period, and the Company has met the requirements for electronic voting under the Regulations.
This Resolution seeks to RESOLUTION 21 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES renew the authority granted by shareholders at last years AGM This Resolution authorises the directors to make limited on market which preserved the Companys ability to call general meetings, purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited other than AGMs, on 14 clear working days notice, such authority to toa maximum of 158,400,000 shares just under 10% of the issued be effective until the Companys next AGM, when a similar resolution ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2018, being the last will be proposed.
The directors confirm that the shorter notice period practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice and details would not be used as a matter of routine, but only where flexibility is the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of merited by the business of the meeting and it is thought to be to the expenses.
The authority conferred by this Resolution will expire at advantage of shareholders as a whole.
An electronic voting facility the conclusion ofthe Companys next AGM or 18 months from the will be made available to all shareholders for any meeting held on passing of this Resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The CA 2006 permits the Company to hold shares repurchased as Resolutions 19 to 22 will be proposed as special resolutions and treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or require that at least three quarters of the votes cast must be in used for the purpose of satisfying the Companys obligations in favour of a resolution for it to be passed.
connection with employee equity incentive schemes.
The authority to be sought by this Resolution is intended to apply equally to shares RECOMMENDATION to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will be The directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the paid on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting bestinterests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole rights will be attached to them.
Shares held as treasury shares will and, accordingly, recommend that all shareholders vote in favour normally be used to satisfy the Companys obligations under the ofall Resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their Companys employee equity incentive schemes.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 197 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and IMPORTANT INFORMATION system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
We may treat PROXIES as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a shareholder of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, as amended.
Company to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
Where more than one proxy is iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities appointed, each proxy must be appointed for different shares.
Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the CA 2006, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Proxies may only be appointed by: Register of Members of the Company as at close of business on going to www.
com and following the instructions Tuesday 5 February 2019 or, in the event that the Meeting is for electronic submission provided there adjourned, in the Register of Members at the close of business two days before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be requesting a paper Form of Proxy from the registrar, entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number LinkAsset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: telephone within the UK: to entries on the Register of Members after close of business on Freephone 0800 029 4520 and from overseas: Tuesday 5 February 2019 or, in the event that the Meeting is 44 333 300 1568: email: enquiries@linkgroup.
co. uk adjourned, at close of business two days before the time of any having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the youarea user of the CREST system including CREST rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
Please refer to the CREST manual ontheEuroclear website www.
com CREST for NOMINATED PERSONS furtherinformation Any person to whom a copy of this Notice is sent who is a person Submission of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a shareholder nominated under section 146 of the CA 2006 to enjoy information fromattending the Meeting and voting in person.
However, rights Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him ifyou do attend the Meeting and vote, any proxy appointment or her and the shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, have will be treated as revoked.
a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy The electronic addresses provided in this Notice are provided appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, solely for the purpose of enabling shareholders to register the under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the appointment of a proxy or proxies for the Meeting or to submit shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of this Meeting to The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the communicate with the Company for any purposes other than appointment of proxies in note i above does not apply to those expressly stated.
The rights described in that note can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
ii To be effective, the Form of Proxy must be completed in accordance with the instructions and received by the Companys SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS AND AGM BUSINESS registrar by 12 noon on Tuesday 5 February 2019.
Under sections 338 and section 338A of the CA 2006, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements which, broadly, require a To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a previously minimum of 100 shareholders holding an average of 905 ordinary appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message shares each or shareholders holding at least 5% of the Companys must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12 noon on issued share capital, have the right to require the Company: i to Tuesday 5 February 2019.
Please note, however, that proxy give to shareholders of the Company entitled to receive notice of the messages cannot be sent through CREST on weekends, public AGM, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is holidays or after 8.00pm on any other day.
For the purpose of intended to be moved, at the AGM: and or ii to include in the this deadline, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as business to be dealt with at the AGM, any matter other than a determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the proposed resolution which may be properly included in the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other properly be included in the business unless: a in the case of a CREST sponsored members and those CREST members that resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason have appointed voting service provider s should contact their of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with or otherwise : b it is defamatory: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy or electronic form and must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or 198 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION Wednesday 26 December 2018, being the date six weeks before the Copies of the service agreements of the executive directors, the AGM, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business letters of appointment of the non-executive directors, the directors only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds deeds of indemnity, the Register of Directors Interests, and the for the request.
Companys Articles of Association and this Notice will be available for inspection during normal business hours from the date of RIGHT TO ASK QUESTIONS dispatch of this Notice until the date of the AGM Saturdays, Sundays Under section 319A of the CA 2006, shareholders have the right and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company, toask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the Meeting Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ and and for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere will also be made available at the AGM for a period of 15 minutes unduly with the business of the Meeting, involve the disclosure of prior to and during the continuance of the AGM.
confidential information, if the answer has already been published on the Companys website, or if it is not in the interests of the TOTAL VOTING RIGHTS Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question As at 1 December 2018 being the last practicable date prior to the beanswered.
publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital 1 comprised 1,585,899,372 ordinary shares of 11 20 pence each WEBSITE PUBLICATION OF AUDIT CONCERNS excluding treasury shares.
The holders of ordinary shares are Under section 527 of the CA 2006, shareholders have a right to entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
On request publication of any concerns that they propose to raise at the a vote by show of hands, every ordinary shareholder who is present AGM relating to the audit of the Companys Accounts including the has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be by a shareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On a vote by poll, submitted to the Meeting or any circumstances connected to the every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has Companys auditor who ceased to hold office since the last AGM.
one vote for every ordinary share held.
It is proposed that all votes on The Company will publish the statement if sufficient requests have the Resolutions at the AGM will be taken by way of a poll.
been received in accordance with section 527 2 of the CA 2006 which, broadly, requires a minimum of 100 shareholders holding an The total voting rights in the Company as at 1 December 2018 were average of 905 ordinary shares each or shareholders holding at least 1,585,899,372 excluding treasury shares.
5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON WEBSITE treasury shares to make the request.
The Company may not require The following information is available on the Companys website at the members requesting any such website publication to pay its www.
com: expenses in complying with such request.
Where a statement is published, the Company will forward the statement to the i the matters set out in this Notice of Meeting Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the ii the total voting rights and number of shares of each class in statement available on the website.
The business which may be respect of which shareholders are entitled to exercise voting dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company rights at the AGM hasbeen required under section 527 of the CA 2006 to publish iii shareholders rights to include business to be dealt with at onits website.
theAGM iv shareholders statements, resolutions and matters of business received by the Company after 17 December 2018 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 199 Notice of annual general meeting continued ATTENDING THE AGM VOTING AT THE AGM If you are coming to the AGM, please bring the Notification Letter The Company confirms that all Resolutions to be proposed at the dated 17 December 2018 with you.
It authenticates your right to AGM will be put to the vote on a poll.
This will result in a more attend, speak and vote at the AGM and will speed your admission.
accurate reflection of the views of all of the Companys shareholders You may also find it useful to bring this Notice of AGM and the by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including the votes of Annual Report 2018 so that you can refer to them at the Meeting.
All shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting but who have joint shareholders may attend and speak at the AGM.
However, only appointed a proxy for the Meeting.
On a poll, each shareholder has one shareholder is entitled to vote.
In the case of joint holders of a one vote for each share held.
share, the vote of the senior who tenders the vote, whether in person All of the votes of the shareholders present will be counted, and or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the added to those received by proxy, and the provisional final votes will other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority shall be determined by be displayed at the Meeting.
the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register.
The indicative voting results, which will include all votes cast for and At the discretion of the Company, and subject to sufficient seating against each Resolution at the Meeting, and all proxies lodged prior capacity, a shareholder may enter with one guest, provided that to the Meeting, will be displayed at the Meeting and the final results theshareholder and their guest register to enter the AGM at the published on the Companys website, the London Stock Exchange same time.
and on the document storage system, Morningstar, as soon as THE AGM practicable after the Meeting.
The Company will also disclose the The doors of the Live Room at Twickenham RFU Stadium will open number of votes withheld.
at 10.30am and the AGM will start promptly at 12 noon.
Please see If you have already voted by proxy, you will still be able to vote at the the map on page 201 for the location of Twickenham RFU Stadium.
Meeting and your vote on the day will replace your previously lodged Car parking is available for shareholders as indicated on the map.
For more information of how to get to the venue, go to http: www.
Whomever you appoint as a proxy can vote or abstain from voting as he or she decides on any other business which may validly come QUESTIONS before the AGM.
This includes proxies appointed using the CREST All shareholders or their proxies will have the opportunity to ask service.
Details of how to complete the appointment of a proxy either questions at the AGM.
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish to electronically or on paper are given in the notes to this Notice.
ask a question, please wait for a Company representative to bring you a microphone.
It would be helpful if you could state your name before you ask your question.
A question may not be answered at the Meeting if it is not considered to be in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of sensitive information.
The Chairman may also nominate a representative to answer a specific question after the Meeting or refer the questioner to the Companys website.
200 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION TAYBEN AVENUE TALMA GARDENS EGERTON ROAD CHUDLEIGH ROAD PAL E S ON ROAD M R T WHITTON ROAD RUGBY ROAD WHITTON ROAD EAST STAND WEST STAND VENUE ARRANGEMENTS AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPT ENQUIRIES For your personal safety and security, all hand baggage may be BNY Mellon maintains the Companys American Depositary subject to examination.
A cloakroom will be available to deposit Receipt register.
If you have any enquiries about your holding coats and bulky items.
of Compass American Depositary Shares, you should contact BNY Mellon, Shareowner Services, Computershare, A sound amplification hearing loop will be available in the P. O.
Box 30170, College Station TX 77842-3170, USA meetingroom.
Anyone accompanying a DATA PROTECTION STATEMENT shareholderinneed of assistance will be admitted to the AGM.
Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your Ifany shareholder with a disability has any questions regarding behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name attendance at the AGM, please contact the Group Company and contact details, the votes you cast and your reference number Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the GuildfordStreet, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ by 28 January 2019. purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is Security staff will be on duty to assist shareholders.
The Company to be processed.
The Company and any third party to which it will not permit behaviour that may interfere with another persons discloses the data including the Companys registrar may process security, safety or the good order of the AGM.
your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the Please ensure that all electronic equipment including mobile shareholder rights you exercise.
phones is switched off throughout the AGM.
PUBLISHED INFORMATION Tea and coffee will be available before the Meeting and light If you would like to receive this Notice and or a copy of the Annual refreshments will be served afterwards.
Report 2018 in an appropriate alternative format, such as large SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES print, Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Link Asset Services maintain the Companys share register.
If you Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, have any enquiries about the AGM or about your shareholding, you Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ.
should contact Link Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Our 2018 Annual Report and this Notice are available at Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
WHITTON define MOGDEN LANE CAR PARK ENTRANCE 1 THE LIVE ROOM FOR SHAREHOLDERS E CAR PARK ENTRANCE E MAIN CAR PARK PARKING P FOR SHAREHOLDERS RS RFU RUGBY STORE WEBB ELLIS MARRIOTT HOTEL HOUSE M TRADING ESTATE M P RS 1 CAR DEALERSHIP WHITTON STATION CENTRAL LONDON TWICKENHAM RICHMOND STATION Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 201 M25 M3 THE WEST WHITTON ROAD A316 CHERTSEY ROAD NORTH STAND SOUTH STAND DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLANDS RIVER
