GLOSSARY OF TERMS Capital employed Total equity shareholders funds adjusted for net debt, post employment benefit obligations net of associated deferred tax, amortised intangibles arising on acquisition, impaired goodwill and excluding the Groups non-controlling partners share of net assets and net assets of discontinued operations.
Constant currency Restates the prior year results to the current years average exchange rates.
Free cash flow Calculated by adjusting operating profit for non-cash items in profit, cash movements in provisions, post employment benefit obligations and working capital, cash purchases and proceeds from disposal of non-current assets, net cash interest, net cash tax, dividends received from joint ventures and associated undertakings, and dividends paid to non-controlling interests.
Free cash flow conversion Underlying free cash flow expressed as a percentage of underlying operating profit.
Gross capital expenditure Includes the purchase of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, including assets purchased under finance leases and client prepayments.
Like for like revenue growth Calculated by adjusting organic revenue growth for new business wins and lost business.
Net capital expenditure Gross capital expenditure less proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment intangible assets.
Net debt Bank overdrafts, bank and other borrowings, finance leases and derivative financial instruments, net of cash and cash equivalents.
Net debt to EBITDA Net debt divided by underlying EBITDA.
NOPAT Net operating profit after tax NOPAT is calculated as underlying operating profit from continuing operations less operating profit of non-controlling interests before tax, net of income tax at the underlying rate of the year.
Organic profit growth Calculated by adjusting underlying operating profit for acquisitions excluding current year acquisitions and including a full period in respect of prior year acquisitions, sale and closure of businesses excluded from both periods and exchange rate movements translating the prior period at current year exchange rates and compares the current year results against the prior year.
In addition, where applicable, a 53rd week has been excluded from the prior years underlying operating profit.
Organic profit Calculated by adjusting underlying operating profit for acquisitions excluding current year acquisitions and including a full period in respect of prior year acquisitions, sale and closure of businesses excluded from both periods and exchange rate movements translating the prior period at current year exchange rates.
Organic revenue Calculated by adjusting underlying revenue for acquisitions excluding current year acquisitions and including a full period in respect of prior year acquisitions, sale and closure of businesses excluded from both periods and exchange rate movements translating the prior period at current year exchange rates.
Organic revenue growth Calculated by adjusting underlying revenue for acquisitions excluding current year acquisitions and including a full period in respect of prior year acquisitions, sale and closure of businesses excluded from both periods and exchange rate movements translating the prior period at current year exchange rates and compares the current year results against the prior year.
In addition, where applicable, a 53rd week has been excluded from the prior years underlying revenue.
ROCE Return on capital employed ROCE divides NOPAT by the 12 month average capital employed.
Specific adjusting items Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
Adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition.
Tax on share of profit of joint ventures.
Loss profit on sale and closure of businesses.
Change in the fair value of investments.
Other financing items including hedge accounting ineffectiveness.
Underlying basic earnings per Excludes specific adjusting items and the tax attributable to those items.
share Underlying cash tax rate Based on underlying cash tax and underlying profit before tax.
Underlying depreciation and Excludes specific adjusting items.
amortisation Underlying EBITDA Based on underlying operating profit, adding back underlying depreciation and amortisation.
202 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GLOSSARY Underlying effective tax rate Based on underlying tax charge and underlying profit before tax.
Underlying free cash flow Free cash flow adjusted for cash restructuring costs in the year relating to the 2012 and 2013 European exceptional programme.
Underlying net finance cost Excludes specific adjusting items.
Underlying operating margin Based on underlying revenue and underlying operating profit excluding share of profit after tax of associates.
Group Underlying operating margin Based on underlying revenue and underlying operating profit excluding share of profit after tax of associates Region and EM & OR restructuring.
Underlying operating profit Includes share of profit after tax of associates and profit before tax of equity accounted joint ventures but Group excludes the specific adjusting items.
Underlying operating profit Includes share of profit before tax of equity accounted joint ventures but excludes the specific adjusting items Region profit after tax of associates and EM & OR restructuring.
Underlying profit before tax Excludes specific adjusting items.
Underlying revenue The combined sales of Group and share of equity accounted joint ventures.
Underlying tax charge Excludes tax attributable to specific adjusting items.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 203 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts is forward looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward looking statements.
Forward looking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, discussions of expected future revenues, financing plans, expected expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the food and support services markets in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, fluctuations in food and other product costs and prices and changes in exchange and interest rates.
Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
Additionally, forward looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
204 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 This Report is printed on a combination of UPM Finesse Silk and UPM Fine Offset.
Both materials are Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified and are produced at mills that hold the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using vegetable inks printing technology.
Pureprint Group is ISO 9001:2000, ISO 14001, EMAS and FSC certified.
The images in this document are representative of the services provided by Compass Group PLC and its subsidiaries and partners.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 COMPASS GROUP PLC Compass House Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey KT16 9BQ United Kingdom Registered in England and Wales No.
