GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the year ended 30 September 2018 IFRIC 22: Foreign currency transactions and advance INTRODUCTION consideration The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Groups financial statements are set out below: IFRIC 23: Uncertainty over income tax treatments A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION AND BASIS Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 OFPREPARATION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 20152017 Cycle International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations of existing Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC standards have been published that, once they have been endorsed interpretations as adopted by the European Union that are effective by the European Union, will be mandatory for the Groups for the year ended 30 September 2018.
They have been prepared accounting period beginning on 1 October 2018 or for later periods.
under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation The Group has not yet adopted these pronouncements and does not of certain financial instruments.
currently believe that the adoption of these standards, amendments The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern or interpretations would have a material effect on the consolidated basis.
This is discussed in the Business Review on page 34. results or financial position of the Group unless stated otherwise.
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers and subsequent amendments Clarifications to IFRS 15 replace IAS 18 Revenue.
Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure initiative IFRS 15, as amended, is effective for accounting periods beginning Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of deferred tax assets for on or after 1 January 2018 and will be adopted by the Group on unrealised losses 1October 2018.
IFRS 15 sets out the requirements for recognising Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle revenue and costs from contracts with customers and includes Amendments to IFRS 12 extensive disclosure requirements.
There is no material impact on the Groups consolidated results or The Group will adopt IFRS 15 for the year ending 30 September balance sheet as a result of adopting these new standards.
2019 with a retrospective approach to the restatement of comparatives.
ACCOUNTING STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS TO EXISTING STANDARDS THAT IFRS 15 is not expected to have a significant impact on the timing ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE and recognition of revenue, operating profit margin or net assets.
On The following accounting standards, interpretations and the assumption that business conditions remain broadly the same, amendments that are applicable to the Group have been issued by the Group expects that the impact of IFRS 15 on its consolidated the IASB but had either not been adopted by the European Union or financial statements will be as follows: were not yet effective in the European Union at 30 September 2018.
Approximately 0.5% reduction in combined sales of Group and The Group is currently analysing the impact these standards would share of equity accounted joint ventures as a result of certain have on its consolidated results and financial position.
payments to clients being offset against revenue as a deduction.
IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers and subsequent These payments were previously reported as operating expenses.
amendments Approximately 0.3% increase in operating profit as a result of IFRS 9: Financial instruments and subsequent amendments thetiming difference arising between the capitalisation of commissions paid to the Groups salesforce, now capitalised as IFRS 16: Leases costs incurred to obtain a contract, and the amortisation of these Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and measurement of sharesales commissions.
The previous policy was to expense salesforce based payment transactions commissions as incurred.
Net assets increase of approximately 2% as a result of the Amendments to IAS 28: Long term Interests in Associates and capitalisation of salesforce commissions, net of their associated JointVentures deferred tax impact.
Amendments to IAS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment Balance sheet reclassifications of some client contract related orSettlement intangibles.
Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRSStandards 114 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group does not expect to have to make any significant new IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 Leases.
The standard is effective judgements around revenue recognition under the new standard.
for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and will be adopted by the Group on 1 October 2019.
IFRS 16 will primarily The Group intends to apply the transition practical expedients in change lease accounting for lessees.
Lease agreements will give rise IFRS 15.
Applying these practical expedients will not have a to the recognition of an asset representing the right to use the leased significant impact on the timing, measurement and recognition of item and a loan obligation for future lease payables.
These expedients are as follows: be recognised in the form of depreciation of the right to use asset Expedient not to disclose the amount of the transaction price and interest on the lease liability.
Lessee accounting under IFRS 16 allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an will be similar in many respects to existing IAS 17 accounting for explanation of when the Group expects to recognise that amount finance leases, but will be substantively different to existing as revenue for the comparative reporting periods presented before accounting for operating leases where rental charges are currently 1 October 2018. recognised on a straight-line basis and no lease asset or related lease creditor is recognised.
Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is Expedients in relation to the use of hindsight in contracts with similar to existing IAS 17 accounting and is not expected to have a variable consideration and contracts that were completed and or material impact for the Group.
modified before the beginning of the comparative periods presented.
The Group intends to adopt IFRS 16 with the cumulative retrospective impact as an adjustment to equity on the date of The Group is assessing the disclosure requirements of IFRS 15 and adoption with no restatement of comparative information.
has preliminarily determined that the majority of the disclosures are either currently included in the financial statements or can be The Group is assessing the impact of the accounting changes that prepared using data currently available.
will arise under IFRS 16: however, the following changes to lessee IFRS 9 Financial instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial accounting will have a material impact as follows: Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard is Right of use assets will be recorded for assets that are leased by effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January the Group.
Currently no lease assets are included on the Groups 2018 and will be adopted by the Group on 1 October 2018.
IFRS 9 consolidated balance sheet for operating leases.
will impact the classification and measurement of the Groups Liabilities will be recorded for future lease payments in the financial instruments, revises the requirements for when hedge Groups consolidated balance sheet for the reasonably certain accounting can be applied and requires certain additional period of the lease, which may include future lease periods for disclosures.
which the Group has extension options.
Currently liabilities are The primary change resulting from IFRS 9 on the Groups generally not recorded for future operating lease payments, which accounting is that the Group will recognise the full amount of credit are disclosed as commitments.
The amount of lease liabilities will losses that would be expected to be incurred over the full recovery not equal the lease commitments reported on 30 September period of trade receivables at the date of initial recognition of those 2019, as they will be discounted to present value and the assets.
Currently credit losses are not recognised on such assets treatment of termination and extension options may differ.
until there is an indicator of impairment, such as a payment default.
Lease expenses will be for depreciation of right of use assets and Whilst hedge accounting requirements are revised under IFRS 9, interest on lease liabilities.
Interest will typically be higher in the nomaterial changes to the Groups hedge accounting have been early stages of a lease and reduce over the term.
operating lease rentals are expensed on a straight-line basis overthe lease term within operating expenses.
The Group will adopt IFRS 9 with the cumulative retrospective Operating lease cash flows are currently included within operating impact on the classification and measurement of financial cash flows in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Under instruments reflected as an adjustment to equity on the date IFRS16 these will be recorded as cash flows from financing ofadoption.
activities reflecting the repayment of lease liabilities borrowings The Groups current estimate of the primary financial impact of and related interest.
adoption of IFRS 9 on the consolidated balance sheet is a reduction of cumulative retained earnings at 1 October 2018 between 10million and 15 million.
No significant impact is expected from implementing IFRS 9 on the consolidated income statement or on the consolidated cash flow statement.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 115 Group accounting policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2018 The Group is continuing to assess the impact of the accounting and assumptions consistent with the most up to date budgets and changes that will arise under IFRS 16 and cannot yet reasonably plans that have been formally approved by management.
The key quantify the impact.
However, the changes highlighted above will assumptions used for the value in use calculations are set out in have a material impact on the consolidated income statement, note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
consolidated balance sheet and consolidated cash flow statement POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS after the Groups adoption on 1 October 2019.
The Groups defined benefit pension schemes and similar arrangements are assessed annually in accordance with IAS 19.
The B CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES, accounting valuation is based on assumptions determined with ASSUMPTIONS AND JUDGEMENTS IN independent actuarial advice.
The size of the net surplus deficit is APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES sensitive to the market value of the assets held by the schemes and The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires to actuarial assumptions, which include price inflation, pension and management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that salary increases, the discount rate used in assessing actuarial affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, mortality and other demographic assumptions and the liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates, judgements and levels of contributions.
Further details and sensitivities are included assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors in note 20 to the financial statements.
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The Groups accounting C BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION policies do not include any critical judgements.
The policies which The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial require the most use of management estimation are set out below: statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company its however none of these estimates are expected to have a material subsidiaries and the Groups share of interests in joint adjustment in the next financial year: arrangements and associates made up to 30 September each year.
TAXES D SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND The Group has operations in around 50 countries that are subject to JOINTARRANGEMENTS direct and indirect taxes.
The tax position is often not agreed with tax SUBSIDIARIES authorities until sometime after the relevant period end and, if Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has control.
subject to a tax audit, may be open for an extended period.
In these Control exists when the Company has power over an entity, exposure circumstances, the recognition of tax liabilities and assets requires to variable returns from its involvement with an entity and the ability management estimate to reflect a variety of factors: these include to use its power over the entity to affect its returns.
The existence the status of any ongoing tax audits, historical experience, and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or interpretations of tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
convertible are also considered when assessing control.
The changing regulatory environment affecting all multi-nationals ASSOCIATES increases the estimation uncertainty associated with calculating the Associates are undertakings that are not subsidiaries or joint Groups tax position.
This is as a result of amendments to tax law at arrangements over which the Group has significant influence and the national level, increased co-operation between tax authorities can participate in financial and operating policy decisions.
and greater cross border transparency.
Investments in associated undertakings are accounted for using the The Group estimates and recognises liabilities of whether additional equity method.
The consolidated income statement includes the taxes will be due based on managements interpretation of country Groups share of the profit after tax of the associated undertakings.
specific tax law, external advice and the likelihood of settlement.
Investments in associates include goodwill identified on acquisition Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the and are carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus postamounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the results in the year in which such determination is made.
Further associate, less any impairment in value.
details of this are provided in note 5 and note 26.
JOINT ARRANGEMENTS In addition, calculation and recognition of temporary differences Joint arrangements are entities in which the Group holds an interest giving rise to deferred tax assets requires estimates and judgements on a long term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group to be made on the extent to which future taxable profits are available and other entities under a contractual agreement.
The Group against which these temporary differences can be utilised.
accounts for its own share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses measured according to the terms of the agreements GOODWILL covering the joint operations.
Joint ventures are accounted for using The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any the equity method.
impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out in section M on pages 118 and 119.
The recoverable amounts of ADJUSTMENTS cash-generating units CGU have been determined based on value Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
116 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS operations expressed in their functional currencies, being the The results of subsidiaries, associates or joint arrangements currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the operates are translated at the exchange rates on the balance sheet consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or eliminated on consolidation.
Where a Group subsidiary transacts expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
with a joint operation of the Group, profits or losses are eliminated to Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint operation.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity E ACQUISITIONS and translated at the closing rate.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase G REVENUE AND CONTRACT COSTS method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the Revenue is recognised in the period in which food and support fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities services are provided in accordance with the terms of the incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued.
contractual relationships with third parties.
Revenue represents the Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities fair value of the consideration received or receivable for food and assumed are recognised at the fair values at the acquisition date, support services provided in the normal course of business, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified excluding trade discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes.
as held for sale which are recognised and measured at fair value Where the consideration receivable under client contracts is less costs to sell.
variable, for example where performance bonuses exist, revenue is The cost of the acquisition in excess of the Groups interest in the recognised when it is highly probable that applicable thresholds will net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as be met.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the Clients engage us to provide our food and support services at their net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised locations.
Depending on the type of client and service, we are paid directly in the consolidated income statement.
either by our client and or directly by the consumer to whom we Where not all the equity of a subsidiary is acquired, the nonhave been provided access by our client.
In certain cases, clients controlling interest is recognised at the non-controlling interests engage us to provide food and support services in a single multi proportionate share of the net assets of the subsidiary.
We recognise revenue for each separate over non-controlling interests are recognised as a financial liability performance obligation in respect of food and support services as measured at fair value which is re-evaluated at each year end with a these are provided.
We typically use three types of client contracts.
corresponding entry in other reserves.
MANAGEMENT FEE CONTRACTS F FOREIGN CURRENCY Revenue from management fee contracts is based on cost incurred The consolidated financial statements are prepared in sterling, and invoiced to the client together with the agreed management fee.
which is the functional currency of the Company.
Revenue from management fee contracts is recognised as food and support services are provided.
In preparing the financial statements of individual companies within the Group, transactions in currencies other than the companies FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange on the Fixed price contracts include both contracts where: a the client dates of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary pays a fixed amount for an agreed range of services provided over a assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are fixed period: and b contracts where revenue is a fixed price per retranslated at the rates on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses meal but varies depending on volume.
Revenue from fixed price arising on retranslation are included in the consolidated income contracts is recognised as services are provided in each period.
statement for the year, except for where they arise on items taken PROFIT AND LOSS CONTRACTS directly to other comprehensive income, in which case they are also Revenue from profit and loss contracts comprises the total of sales recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
made to consumers, typically with little or no subsidy charged to In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks the clients.
Under these contracts, the Group has significant discretion Group enters into forward currency contracts see section Q for the to manage pricing and costs.
Revenue is recognised as food and Groups accounting policies in respect of derivative financial support services are provided to consumers.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 117 Group accounting policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2018 CONTRACT COSTS L TAX Costs incurred during the bidding period, prior to a contract being Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is awarded, are expensed to the income statement.
Costs incurred in recognised in the consolidated income statement except where securing the contract after preferred bidder status has been itrelates to items taken directly to the consolidated statement of obtained are generally expensed as incurred, unless they fulfil the comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised conditions for capitalisation as an asset.
inthe consolidated statement of comprehensive income or equity asappropriate.
Commissions paid to the sales force on winning or retaining client contracts are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively As part of client contracts, the Group may make payments to clients enacted in respect of that period by the balance sheet date.
primarily based on a percentage of revenue or profit generated from consumers.
These payments are accounted for as operating costs Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, when incurred.
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the H REBATES AND OTHER AMOUNTS RECEIVED amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally FROM SUPPLIERS recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax Rebates and other amounts received from suppliers include assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable agreeddiscounts from suppliers list prices, value and volume profits will be available against which deductible temporary related rebates.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial Income from value and volume related rebates is recognised based recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a on actual purchases in the period as a proportion of total purchases business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction made or forecast to be made over the rebate period.
that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Rebates received in respect of plant and equipment are deducted from the costs capitalised and are recognised in the consolidated Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary income statement in line with depreciation.
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interest in joint arrangements, except where the Group is Agreed discounts relating to inventories are credited to the income abletocontrol the reversal of the temporary difference and it is statement within cost of sales as the goods are consumed.
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Rebates relating to items purchased, but still held at the balance foreseeable future.
sheet date, are deducted from the carrying value of these items so The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each that the cost of inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or I BORROWING COSTS part of the asset to be recovered.
Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as Deferred tax is calculated at the enacted or substantively enacted tax part of the cost of that asset.
rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
J OPERATING PROFIT Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when Operating profit is stated after the share of profit after tax of joint they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and ventures and associates, and before finance costs.
the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a K EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS net basis.
Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the M INTANGIBLE ASSETS consolidated financial statements where it is necessary to do so to GOODWILL provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of Group.
They are material items of income or expense that have been acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
assets and liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint arrangement at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
118 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis over the anticipated A CGU is identified at the lowest aggregation of assets that generate useful lives of the assets.
largely independent cash inflows, and that which is looked at by The following rates applied for the Group: management for monitoring and managing the business and relates to the total business for a country.
Freehold buildings and long term leasehold property: 2% perannum If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying Short term leasehold property: the life of the lease amount, an impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying Plant and machinery: 8% to 33% per annum amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other Fixtures and fittings: 8% to 33% per annum assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment is immediately recognised in When assets are sold, the difference between sales proceeds and the consolidated income statement and an impairment loss the carrying amount of the assets is dealt with in the consolidated recognised for goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the O ASSETS HELD FOR SALE determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to sale if the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale IFRShas been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, management reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated is committed to a sale plan, the asset is available for immediate sale andis not included in determining any subsequent gain or loss in its present condition and the sale is expected to be completed ondisposal.
within one year from the date of classification.
These assets are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS tosell.
Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost or, if acquired as part of a business combination, are capitalised at fair P INVENTORIES value as at the date of the acquisition.
Amortisation is charged on a Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
straight line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets.
Cost is calculated using either the weighted average price or the first Internally generated intangible assets are not capitalised.
Intangible in, first out method as appropriate to the circumstances.
Net assets are reviewed for impairment annually.
realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course The following rates applied for the Group: of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
client contract related intangible assets: the life of the contract Q FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS computer software: 20% to 33% per annum Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the The typical life of contract related intangibles is 2 to 20 years.
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and Client contract related intangible assets arising on acquisition of a liabilities, including derivative financial instruments, denominated in business are recognised at fair value and amortised over the life of foreign currencies are translated into sterling at period end exchange the contract, including the renewal period where appropriate.
Gains and losses are dealt with through the consolidated Underlying operating profit and underlying earnings per share income statement, unless hedge accounting treatment is available.
exclude the amortisation of contract related intangible assets arising INVESTMENTS on acquisition of a business as it is not considered to be relevant to The Groups available for sale investments are measured at fair value the underlying trading performance of the Group.
or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less N PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT impairment.
They are included in non-current assets unless All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when there are management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Freehold of the balance sheet date.
All other property, plant and equipment CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and recognised impairment in value.
short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 119 Group accounting policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2018 The Groups policy is to convert a proportion of its floating rate debt BORROWINGS to fixed rates, using floating to fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of may designate these as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised whenever the hedge accounting conditions are met.
cost: any difference between the proceeds net of direct issue costs and the redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income The Group may also designate foreign currency firm commitments statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective as cash flow hedges of foreign currency risk whenever the hedge interest method, unless included in a fair value hedge.
EQUITY INSTRUMENTS The portion of the gain or loss arising from the cash flow hedging Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGEACCOUNTING For cash flow hedges of firm commitments which result in the The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward recognition of an asset or liability, then at the time the asset or currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge the risks liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had associated with changes in foreign exchange rates and interest previously been recognised in equity are recognised in the initial rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially measured at measurement of the acquisition cost and carrying amount of the fair value on the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses subsequent reporting dates.
that are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example when the approved by the Board of Directors that provide written principles on future sale occurs.
the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge instruments for speculative purposes.
accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the consolidated income statement in the period.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with The Group uses foreign currency denominated debt, forward similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is currency contracts and cross currency swaps to partially hedge determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
against the change in the sterling value of its foreign currency denominated net assets due to movements in foreign exchange For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either rates.
The Group designates these as a hedge of its net investments fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the in foreign operations and recognises the gains or losses on the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where retranslation of the borrowings in other comprehensive income.
If they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income, liability or a forecasted transaction: or net investment hedges where with any ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the they hedge the exposure to foreign currency arising from a net income statement.
Exchange differences arising from a monetary investment in foreign operations.
item receivable from or payable to a Group foreign operation, the In relation to fair value hedges which meet the conditions for settlement of which is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable hedgeaccounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the future, are considered to form part of a net investment in a hedginginstrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the foreignoperation and are recognised directly in equity in consolidated income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged thetranslation reserve.
itemattributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are amount of the hedged item and recognised in the consolidated recycled through the consolidated income statement on disposal of income statement.
Where the adjustment is to the carrying amount the foreign operation.
of a hedged interest bearing financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit and loss such that it is fully amortised Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument bymaturity.
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies forhedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or When fair value hedge accounting is discontinued, any adjustment loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity to the carrying amount of the hedged item for the designated risk for until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no interest bearing financial instruments is amortised to profit or loss, longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised with amortisation commencing no later than when the hedged item in equity is transferred to the consolidated income statement in ceases to be adjusted.
120 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the UK defined benefit plan, the Group considers that it has an R LEASES unconditional right to a refund of a surplus, assuming the gradual Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the settlement of the plan liabilities over time until all members have left lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the plan.
The trustees cannot unconditionally wind up the plan or the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
use the surplus to enhance member benefits without employer Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the consent.
The Groups judgement is that these trustee rights do not Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the prevent the Group from recognising an unconditional right to a minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the refund and therefore a surplus.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Net interest income if a plan is in surplus or interest expense if a balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are plan is in deficit is calculated using yields on high quality corporate apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease bonds and recognised in the consolidated income statement.
A obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the current service cost is also recognised which represents the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged expected present value of the defined benefit pension entitlement directly to the consolidated income statement.
earned by members in the period.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to income on a Remeasurements, which include gains and losses as a result of straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Any incentives to changes in actuarial assumptions, the effect of the limit on the plan enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis surplus if any and returns on plan assets other than amounts over the lease term.
included in net interest are recognised in the consolidated S PROVISIONS statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation subsequent periods.
as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the OTHER POST EMPLOYMENT OBLIGATIONS directors best estimate of the cost of settling these liabilities and are Some Group companies provide other post employment benefits.
discounted to present value where the effect is material.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period ofemployment using a similar basis to that used for defined T EMPLOYEE BENEFITS benefitpension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are PENSION OBLIGATIONS  in the consolidated statement of The Group operates two types of pension plans: comprehensive income.
Defined contribution plans where the Group makes contributions SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS to a members pension plan but has no further payment The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain obligations once the contributions have been paid: and employees.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 2 Defined benefit plans which provide pension payments upon Share-based payments, the Group has applied IFRS 2 to all retirement to members as defined by the plan rules.
equity-settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 that had vested before 1 January 2005.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to separately administered pension plans.
The Group has no further Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the contributions are recognised in current service cost in the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the consolidated income statement when they are due.
Payments made equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line to state managed schemes are treated as payments to defined basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution non-market based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or For defined benefit plans, the calculation of the defined benefit Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each obligation is performed at least once a year by a qualified actuary scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, using the projected unit credit method.
The consolidated balance based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise sheet reflects a net asset or net liability for each defined benefit restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The liability recognised is the present value of the HOLIDAY PAY defined benefit obligation discounted using the yields on high quality Paid holidays and similar entitlements are regarded as an employee corporate bonds less the fair value of plan assets at bid price, if benefit and are charged to the consolidated income statement as any.
If the fair value of the plan assets exceeds the defined benefit the benefits are earned.
An accrual is made at the balance sheet obligation, a pension surplus is only recognised if the Group date to reflect the fair value of holidays earned but not taken.
considers that it has an unconditional right to a refund.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 121
