PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the year ended 30 September 2018 INTRODUCTION D INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the separate financial statements of Compass Group PLC the Company Investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
In are set out below: the opinion of the directors the value of such investments is not less than as shown at the balance sheet date.
A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION AND BASIS OF Investment income is measured at the fair value of the consideration PREPARATION received or receivable.
It represents dividend income which is These financial statements are prepared in accordance with the recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
historical cost convention, except as described in the accounting policy on financial instruments, Financial Reporting Standard 101 E FOREIGN CURRENCY Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101, and applicable United Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Kingdom laws.
In preparing these financial statements, the sterlingat the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains and Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as for the period.
adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS, but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 F BORROWINGS CA2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction disclosure exemptions has been taken.
These financial statements costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised thus present information about the Company as an individual cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting undertaking not as a Group undertaking.
Borrowings that are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship are measured at amortised cost plus or These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern minus the fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
This is discussed in the Finance Directors statement on page 34.
G DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS B EXEMPTIONS The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its The Companys financial statements are included in the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
CompassGroup PLC consolidated financial statements for the Derivative instruments utilised include interest rate swaps, currency yearended30September 2018.
As permitted by section 408 of swaps and forward currency contracts.
The Company and Group theCA 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and policy is disclosed in the accounting policies to the consolidated lossaccount.
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the exemptions under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions and a cash flow statement and related notes derecognised when it ceases to be party to such provisions.
Such transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are expected to capital management be realised or settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
If as required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and IFRS 7 not, they are recognised as non-current.
Financial Instrument Disclosures H DIVIDENDS the effect of new but not yet effective IFRS Dividends are recognised in the Companys financial statements disclosures in respect of compensation of key management inthe year in which they are approved in general meeting by personnel theCompanys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised IFRS 2 Share Based Payments in respect of Group settled share whenpaid.
based payments I DEFERRED TAX C CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated rates on temporary The Company has not applied any accounting standards for the first differences arising from the inclusion of items of income and time in the year ended 30 September 2018. expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 185 Parent Company accounting policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2018 J SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of the non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or Black-Scholes option pricing models as is most appropriate for each scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions.
An addition to the Companys investment in Group undertakings is reported with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds.
For details of the charge see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
K INTERCOMPANY AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Intercompany and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment.
Intercompany and other receivables are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting end date and are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated cash flows have been adversely affected.
L FINANCIAL GUARANTEES AND LOAN COMMITMENTS Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
186 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018
