FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2018 1 Authorisation of Consolidated Financial Statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The Consolidated Financial Statements of Computacenter plc Parent Company or the Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 11 March 2019.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet was signed on behalf of the Board by MJ Norris and FA Conophy.
Computacenter plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England whose shares are publicly traded.
The Groups Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year as disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts except that the Group has had to change its accounting policies and make material retrospective adjustments as a result of adopting IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 are disclosed below.
The Group has adopted IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018 which has resulted in changes in accounting policies and adjustments to the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In accordance with the transition provisions in IFRS 15, the Group has adopted the new rules using the modified retrospective approach, meaning that the cumulative effect of applying the new accounting policies has been recognised as an adjustment in equity as at 1 January 2018.
The overall net impact of all adjustments was a credit to retained earnings of 6.5 million as at 1 January 2018.
Adjustments were required in relation to: Certain costs, such as win fees a form of commission and fulfilment cost are capitalised and spread over the life of the contract, as opposed to being expensed as incurred as was the case under the previous policy.
This resulted in an increase to retained earnings of 7.6 million as at 1 January 2018, with the corresponding entry to prepayments.
The tax impact of this adjustment is a debit to equity of 1.4 million and a corresponding increase in deferred tax liabilities as at 1 January 2018.
The net impact on retained earnings as at 1 January 2018 is 6.2 million.
This change in accounting policy resulted in a recognition of a net cost in FY2018 of 1.2 million with a corresponding credit to tax for the year, as presented in the table below.
As at 31 December 2018, the win fee balance was 6.2 million.
Certain elements of Managed Services contracts, for example those relating to Entry Into Service, are not treated as separate performance obligations under the new policy.
Under the new policy, these services are treated as part of the ongoing performance obligations in the contract.
This means the revenues and costs associated with Entry Into Service are recognised over the life of the contracts with customers rather than being recognised as incurred as was the case historically.
This resulted in an increase to retained earnings of 0.5 million as at 1 January 2018, with the corresponding entry to prepayments.
The tax impact of this adjustment is a debit to equity of 0.1 million and a corresponding increase in deferred tax liabilities as at 1 January 2018.
The net impact on retained earnings as at 1 January 2018 is 0.4 million.
This change in accounting policy resulted in a reduction in revenue of 4.5 million and cost of sales of 4.8 million and in a recognition of a net cost in FY2018 of 0.3 million with a corresponding credit to tax for the year, as presented in the table below.
As at 31 December 2018, the fulfilment cost balance was 0.3 million.
IFRS 15 has been adopted using the modified retrospective approach, therefore comparative amounts have not been restated.
For comparability purposes, the following table gives the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 by showing what the results would have been had they been prepared under the previous accounting policies.
Consolidated Income Statement Results without 2018 as adoption of reported Adjustments IFRS 15 000 000 000 Revenue 4,352,570 4,454 4,348,116 Cost of sales 3,804,019 4,756 3,799,263 Gross profit 548,551 302 548,853 Administrative expenses 439,183 1,216 437,967 Operating profit 109,368 1,518 110,886 Gain on disposal of an investment property Finance revenue 1,250 1,250 Finance costs 2,490 2,490 Profit before tax 108,128 1,518 109,646 Income tax expense 27,199 424 27,623 Profit for the year 80,929 1,094 82,023 Earnings per share: basic 71.4 0.9 72.3 diluted 70.1 0.9 71.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 85,016 1,094 86,110 121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Consolidated Balance Sheet Results without 2018 as adoption of reported Adjustments IFRS 15 000 000 000 Non-current assets Prepayments 3,524 3,524 Others 300,524 300,524 304,048 3,524 300,524 Current assets Prepayments 69,320 2,720 66,600 Others 1,586,110 1,586,110 1,655,430 2,720 1,652,710 Total assets 1,959,478 6,244 1,953,234 Current liabilities Others 1,351,134 1,351,134 1,351,134 1,351,134 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax liabilities 13,009 791 12,218 Others 147,563 147,563 160,572 791 159,781 Total liabilities 1,511,706 791 1,510,915 Net assets 447,772 5,453 442,319 Capital and reserves Retained earnings 433,572 1,094 434,666 Opening balance adjustment to retained earnings 6,547 6,547 Others 7,653 7,653 Total equity 447,772 5,453 442,319 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Results without 2018 as adoption of reported Adjustments IFRS 15 000 000 000 Profit before taxation 108,128 1,518 109,646 Adjustments for non-cash operating items 42,617 424 42,193 Net cash flow from trade and other receivables 274,968 1,094 276,062 Others 239,441 239,441 Net cash flow from operating activities 115,218 115,218 Net cash flow from investing activities 105,951 105,951 Net cash flow from financing activities 17,004 17,004 Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 7,737 7,737 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 1,580 1,580 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 206,599 206,599 Cash and cash equivalents at the year end 200,442 200,442 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 IFRS 9 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 replaces the classification and measurement models for financial instruments in IAS 39.
The Group has assessed its balance sheet assets in accordance with the new classification requirements.
There has been no change in the measurement for any of the Groups financial assets or liabilities.
In addition, IFRS 9 introduces an expected loss model for the assessment of impairment of financial assets.
The incurred loss model under IAS 39 required the Group to recognise impairment losses when there was objective evidence that an asset was impaired.
Under the expected loss 122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 model, impairment losses are recorded if there is an expectation of credit losses, even in the absence of a default event.
However, as permitted by IFRS 9, the Group applies the simplified approach to trade receivable balances.
Due to the general quality and short-term nature of the trade receivables, there is no significant impact on introduction of the simplified approach.
The Group applies the hedge accounting requirements under IFRS 9 and its hedging activities are discussed in note 23 of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts with movements on hedging reserves disclosed on the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The Groups existing hedging arrangements have been assessed as compliant with IFRS 9.
The adoption of IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018 does not have a material impact on the Groups reported results.
The following table presents the Groups financial instruments, showing their original measurement category under IAS 39 and new measurement categories under IFRS 9, as at 1 January 2018.
There has been no measurement change to any of the financial instruments upon adoption of IFRS 9.
Financial instrument IAS 39 classification IFRS 9 classification Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Loan and receivable Amortised cost Current asset investments Fair value through Consolidated Income Statement Fair value through Consolidated Income Statement Trade receivables Loan and receivable Fair value through Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income debt instrument Other receivables Loan and receivable Amortised cost Derivatives used in designated hedge Fair value hedging instrument Fair value hedging instrument relationships Derivatives not in designated hedge Fair value through Consolidated Income Statement Fair value through Consolidated Income Statement relationships Financial liabilities Trade and other payables Amortised cost Amortised cost Borrowings Amortised cost Amortised cost Derivatives used in designated hedge Fair value hedging instrument Fair value hedging instrument relationships Derivatives not in designated hedge Fair value through Consolidated Income Statement Fair value through Consolidated Income Statement relationships Impairment There has been no material adjustment required on transition to IFRS 9 to the loss allowance against financial assets.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2019 IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 IFRS 16 will be effective for the accounting period beginning 1 January 2019.
The new standard will require that the Groups leased assets are recorded as right of use assets in the balance sheet within Property, plant and equipment with a corresponding lease liability which is based on the present value of the future payments required under each lease.
The Group intends to use the simplified approach to transition, and to utilise various practical expedients in the standard, such as not recognising lease liabilities for leases under 12 months in duration or for leases on assets with a value of under 5,000.
In addition, the Group intends to use the practical expedient available and, within its transition adjustment, only consider contracts previously identified as including leases.
The Group intends to take the option to measure the right of use asset at transition at the value of the lease liability, therefore there was no impact on the net asset position of the Group at transition date.
The Groups leases primarily relate to office buildings, warehouses and vehicles.
As previously noted, the impact of IFRS 16 on the Consolidated Financial Statements will be material.
The existing operating lease expense currently recorded in cost of sales and administrative expenses will be replaced by a depreciation charge which will be presented in cost of sales and administrative expenses and a separate financing expense, which will be recorded in interest expense.
For leases previously classified as operating leases, the profile of total expenses recognised over the course of a lease will change and will no longer be on a straight-line basis but rather will be front-loaded to the earlier periods of the lease.
This is because the finance expense element will be higher in the earlier periods and reduce as the lease liability is paid down over time.
Net cash flows will not be impacted by the new standard, however, the lease payments will no longer all be presented as operating cash outflows in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement but rather will be presented as financing cash outflows, split between interest payments and repayment of lease liabilities.
This means that cash flows from operating activities will increase but cash flows from financing activities will decrease.
The Group does not currently intend to alter its approach as to whether assets should be leased or bought going forward.
123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The substantial majority of the Groups operating lease commitments some 137.0 million on an undiscounted basis, as shown in note 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements will be brought onto the Consolidated Balance Sheet and amortised and depreciated separately.
Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis other than derivative financial instruments, which are stated at fair value.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pound sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using existing GAAP in each country of operation.
Adjustments are made on consolidation for differences that may exist between the respective local GAAPs and IFRS.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profit and losses resulting from intra-Group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control and cease to be consolidated from the date on which the Group no longer retains control.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented separately within equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separately from Parent shareholders equity.
Foreign currency translation The Groups presentation currency is pound sterling.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the Financial Statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the Consolidated Balance Sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
The functional currencies of the material overseas subsidiaries are euro, US dollar US$, South African rand ZAR and Swiss franc CHF.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their Consolidated Income Statements are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent of the amount which is expected to be received from customers as consideration for the transfer of goods and services to the customer.
In multi-element contracts with customers where more than one good Technology Sourcing or service Professional Services and Managed Services is provided to the customer, analysis is performed to determine whether the separate promises are distinct performance obligations within the context of the contract.
To the extent that this is the case, the transaction price is allocated between the distinct performance obligations based upon relative standalone selling prices.
The revenue is then assessed for recognition purposes based upon the nature of the activity and the terms and conditions of the associated customer contract relating to that specific distinct performance obligation.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: 2.3.
Technology Sourcing The Group supplies hardware and software together as goods to customers that is sourced from and delivered by a number of suppliers.
Technology Sourcing revenue is recognised at a point in time, when control of the goods have passed to the customer, usually on dispatch.
Payment for the goods is generally received on industry standard payment terms.
2 Professional Services The Group provides skilled professionals to customers either on a resource on demand basis or operating within a project framework.
For those contracts which are resource on demand, where the revenue is billed on a timesheet basis, revenue is recognised based on monthly invoiced amounts as this corresponds to the service delivered to the customer and the satisfaction of the Companys performance obligations.
For contracts operating within a project framework, revenue is recognised based on the transaction price with reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs percentage of completion basis of the contract.
Under either basis, Professional Services revenue is recognised over time.
124 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 If the total estimated costs and revenues of a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised only to the extent that costs have been incurred and where the Group has an enforceable right to payment as work is being performed.
A provision for forecast excess costs over forecasted revenue is made as soon as a loss is foreseen see note 2.13.1 for further detail.
Unbilled Professional Services revenue is classified as a contract asset and is included within accrued income in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Unearned Professional Services revenue is classified as a contract liability and is included within deferred income in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Payment for the services, which are invoiced monthly, are generally on industry standard payment terms.
3 Managed Services The Group sells maintenance, support and management of customers IT infrastructures and operations.
Managed Services revenue is recognised over time, throughout the term of the contract, as services are delivered.
The specific performance obligations and invoicing conditions in our Managed Services contracts are typically related to the number of calls, interventions or users that we manage and therefore the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the services as they are performed.
Revenue is recognised based on monthly invoiced amounts as this corresponds to the service delivered to the customer and the satisfaction of the Companys performance obligations.
Unbilled Managed Services revenue is classified as a contract asset and is included within accrued income in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Unearned Managed Services revenue is classified as a contract liability and is included within deferred income in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Amounts invoiced relating to more than one year are deferred and recognised over the relevant period.
Payment for the services is generally on industry standard payment terms.
If the total estimated costs and revenues of a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised only to the extent that costs have been incurred and where the Group has an enforceable right to payment as work is being performed.
On occasion, the Group may have a limited number of Managed Services contracts where revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis, which is determined by reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the contract see note 3.1.
Costs of obtaining and fulfilling revenue contracts The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and is frequently involved in contract bids with multiple competitors, with the outcome usually unknown until the contract is awarded and signed.
When accounting for costs associated with obtaining and fulfilling customer contracts, the Group first considers whether these costs fit within a specific IFRS standard or policy.
Any costs associated with obtaining or fulfilling revenue contracts which do not fall into the scope of other IFRS standards or policies are considered under IFRS 15.
All such costs are expensed as incurred other than the two types of costs noted below: 1.
W in fees The Group pays win fees to certain employees as bonuses for successfully obtaining customer contracts.
As these are incremental costs of obtaining a customer contract, they are capitalised along with any associated payroll tax expense to the extent they are expected to be recovered.
These balances are presented within prepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The win fee balance that will be realised after more than 12 months is disclosed as non-current.
F ulfilment costs The Group often incurs costs upfront relating to the initial set-up phase of outsourcing contract, which the Group refers to as Entry Into Service.
These costs do not relate to a distinct performance obligation in the contract, but rather are accounted for as fulfilment costs under IFRS 15 as they are directly related to the future performance on the contract.
They are therefore capitalised to the extent that they are expected to be recovered.
Both win fees and Entry Into Service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the contract term, as this is materially equivalent to the pattern of transfer of services to the customer over the contract term.
The amortisation charges on win fees and Entry Into Service costs are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement within administration expenses and cost of sales, respectively.
Any bid costs incurred by the Groups Central Bid Management Engines are not capitalised or charged to the contract, but instead directly charged to selling, general and administrative expenses as they are incurred.
These costs associated with bids are not separately identifiable nor can they be measured reliably as the Groups internal bid teams work across multiple bids at any one time.
Finance income Income is recognised as interest accrues.
Operating lease income Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Exceptional items The Group presents those material items of income and expense as exceptional items which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior years and to assess better trends in financial performance.
125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1 2.5.
Adjusted measures The Group uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice non-GAAP financial measures in addition to those reported in accordance with IFRS.
The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures, listed below, are important when assessing the underlying financial and operating performance of the Group.
These non-GAAP measures comprise of: Adjusted operating profit or loss, adjusted profit or loss before tax, adjusted tax, adjusted profit or loss for the year, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share are, as appropriate, each stated before: exceptional and other adjusting items including gain or loss on business disposals, gain or loss on disposal of investment properties, gains or losses related to material acquisitions, amortisation of acquired intangibles, utilisation of deferred tax assets where initial recognition was as an exceptional item or a fair value adjustment on acquisition, and the related tax effect of these exceptional and other adjusting items, as Management do not consider these items when reviewing the underlying performance of the Segment or the Group as a whole.
Additionally, adjusted gross profit or loss and adjusted operating profit or loss includes the interest paid on customer-specific financing CSF which Management considers to be a cost of sale.
A reconciliation between key adjusted and statutory measures is provided on page 57 of the Group Finance Directors review which details the impact of exceptional and other adjusted items when comparing to the non-GAAP financial measures in addition to those reported in accordance with IFRS.
Further detail is also provided within note 4, segment information.
Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where an asset does not have independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is assessed for the cash-generating unit CGU to which it belongs.
Certain other corporate assets are unable to be allocated against specific CGUs.
These assets are tested across an aggregation of CGUs that utilise the asset.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value-in-use of the asset or CGU.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group estimates the assets or CGUs recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment was recognised.
The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
As the Group has no assets carried at revalued amounts, such reversal is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation, down to residual value, is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: freehold buildings: 25-50 years short leasehold improvements: shorter of seven years and period to expiry of lease fixtures and fittings head office: 5-15 years other: shorter of seven years and period to expiry of lease office machinery and computer hardware: 2-15 years motor vehicles: three years Freehold land is not depreciated.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the Consolidated Income Statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Leases Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
126 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 2.9.
Investment property Investment property is defined as land and or buildings held by the Group to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for sale in the ordinary course of business or for use in the supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
The Group recognises any part of an owned or leased under a finance lease property that is leased to third parties as investment property, unless it represents an insignificant portion of the property.
Investment property is measured initially at cost including transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group elects to measure investment property at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any i. e. applying the same accounting policies including useful lives as for property, plant and equipment.
The fair values, which reflect the market conditions as at the balance sheet date, are disclosed in note 14.
Software and software licences Software and software licences include computer software that is not integral to a related item of hardware.
These assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Currently software is amortised over four years.
The carrying values of software and software licences are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Software under development Costs that are incurred and that can be specifically attributed to the development phase of management information systems for internal use are capitalised and amortised over their useful life, once the asset becomes available for use.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are carried initially at fair value.
Following initial recognition intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value.
Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives with charges included in administrative expenses as follows: order back log: three months existing customer contracts: five years existing customer relationships: 10-15 years tools and technology: seven years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the acquisition method.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related CGU monitored by Management, usually at business Segment level or statutory Company level as the case may be.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or slow-moving items.
Costs include those incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, on a First-In, First-Out basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised at their fair value, which initially equates to the sum of the consideration given and the directly attributable transaction costs associated with the investment.
Subsequently, the financial assets are measured at either amortised cost or fair value depending on their classification under IFRS 9.
The Group currently holds only debt instruments.
The classification of these debt instruments depends on the Groups business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.12.1.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30- to 90-day credit terms, are initially recognised and carried at their original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
The Group sometimes uses debt factoring to managing liquidity and, as a result, the business model for Trade receivables is that they are held for the collection of contractual cash flows, which are solely payments of principal and interest, and for selling.
As a result, IFRS 9 requires that, subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income except for the recognition of impairment gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses, which are recognised in profit or loss.
Given the short lives of the trade receivables, there are generally no material fair value movements between initial recognition and the derecognition of the receivable.
The Group assesses for doubtful debts impairment using the expected credit losses model as required by IFRS 9.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised from the initial recognition of the receivables.
Current asset investments Current asset investments comprise deposits held for a term of greater than three months from the date of deposit and which are not available to the Group on demand.
The business model for current asset investments is that they are held for the collection of contractual cash flows, which are not solely payments of principal and interest.
As a result, subsequent to initial measurement, current asset investments are measured at fair value with fair value movements recognised in profit and loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand, and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Cash is held for the collection of contractual cash flows which are solely payments of principal and interest and therefore is measured at amortised cost subsequent to initial recognition.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities is at amortised cost, unless otherwise described below: 2.13.1.
Provisions excluding Restructuring provision Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Customer contract provisions A provision for forecast excess costs over forecasted revenue is made as soon as a loss is foreseen.
Management continually monitor the financial performance of contracts, and where there are indicators that a contract could result in a negative margin, the future financial performance of that contract will be reviewed in detail.
If, after further financial analysis, the full financial consequence of the contract can be reliably estimated, and it is determined that the contract is potentially loss-making, then the best estimate of the losses expected to be incurred until the end of the contract will be provided for see note 3.1.
The Group applies IAS 37 in its assessment of whether contracts are considered onerous and in subsequently estimating the provision.
An agenda decision published by the IFRS Interpretations Committee outlined that the current wording of IAS 37 allows for two interpretations of what can constitute unavoidable costs when determining whether a contract is onerous.
One of the acceptable interpretations noted by the Committee is in line with our current practice, which is to consider costs such as overhead allocations as unavoidable.
The matter has been put on the agenda for future discussion at the IFRS Interpretations Committee, with a view to drafting clarifications to IAS 37.
Until there is clarity on this matter, we have concluded that our current approach, that considers total estimated costs i. e. directly attributable variable costs and fixed allocated costs as included in the assessment of whether the contract is onerous or not and in the measurement of the provision, remains appropriate.
Restructuring provisions The Group recognises a restructuring provision when there is a programme planned and controlled by Management that changes materially the scope of the business or the manner in which it is conducted.
Further to the Groups general provision recognition policy, a restructuring provision is only considered when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring identifying, as a minimum: the business or part of the business concerned: the principal locations affected: the location, function and approximate number of employees who will be compensated for terminating their services: the expenditures that will be undertaken and when the plan will be implemented.
128 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 The Group will only recognise a specific restructuring provision once a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement that plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The Group only includes incremental costs associated directly with the restructuring within the restructuring provisions such as employee termination benefits and consulting fees.
The Group specifically excludes from recognition in a restructuring provision any costs associated with ongoing activities such as the costs of training or relocating staff that are redeployed within the business rather than retrenched and costs for employees who continue to be employed in ongoing operations, regardless of the status of these operations post restructure.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme available to all UK employees.
Contributions are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
There are no material pension schemes within the Groups overseas operations.
The Group has an obligation to make a one-off payment to French employees upon retirement, the Indemnits fide Fin fide Carrire IFC.
French employment law requires that a company pays employees a one-time contribution when, and only when, the employee leaves the Company for retirement at the mandatory age.
This is a legal requirement for all businesses who incur the obligation upon departure, due to retirement, of an employee.
Typically the retirement benefit is based on length of service of the employee and his or her salary at retirement.
The amount is set via a legal minimum but the retirement premiums can be improved by the collective agreement or employment contract in some cases.
In Computacenter France, the payment is based on accrued service and ranges from one month of salary after five years of service to 9.4 months of salary after 47 years of service.
If the employee leaves voluntarily at any point before retirement, all liability is extinguished and any accrued service is not transferred to any new employment.
Management continues to account for this obligation according to IAS 19 revised.
Refer to note 32 for full disclosure.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations affecting cash flows from forecasted transactions and unrecognised firm commitments.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of both the hedging instrument and, the hedged item or transaction and then the economic relationship between the two, including whether the hedging instrument is expected to offset changes in cash flow of the hedged item.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in cash flows.
The Group designates the full change in the fair value of the forward contract including forward points as the hedging instrument.
Forward contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Forward contracts are recorded as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction, or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.
Cash flow hedges that meet the criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement in administrative expenses.
129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Amounts recognised within other comprehensive income are transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement, within administrative expenses, when the hedged transaction affects the Consolidated Income Statement, such as when the hedged financial expense is recognised.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement within administrative expenses.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised within Consolidated Other Comprehensive Income remains within Consolidated Other Comprehensive Income until after the forecast transaction or firm commitment affects the Consolidated Income Statement.
Any other gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on forward contracts are taken directly to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior years are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available in the future against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses, can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to the statement of comprehensive income if it relates to items that are credited or charged to the statement of comprehensive income.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Share-based payment transactions Employees including Executive Directors of the Group can receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the award at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by utilising an appropriate valuation model, further details of which are given in note 29.
In valuing equitysettled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions as none of the conditions set are market-related.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date, until the vesting date, reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The Consolidated Income Statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
As the schemes do not include any market-related performance conditions, no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share see note 11.
The Group has an employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to Executive Directors and senior management.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as investment in own shares and are recorded at cost as a deduction from equity see note 28.
Fair value measurement The Group measures certain financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest 130 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
Fair value related disclosures for financial instruments that are measured at fair value or where fair values are disclosed, are summarised in note 26.
Own shares held Computacenter plc shares held by the Group are classified in shareholders equity as own shares held and are recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires Management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making these critical judgements and estimates, actual outcomes could be different.
During the year, Management set aside time to consider the critical accounting estimates and judgements for the Group.
This process included reviewing the last reporting periods disclosures, the key judgements required on the implementation of forthcoming standards such as IFRS 16 and the current periods challenging accounting issues.
Where Management deemed an area of accounting to be no longer a critical estimate or judgement, an explanation for this decision is found in the relevant accounting notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Critical estimates Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected.
The areas involving significant risk resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: 3.1.
Services revenue recognition and contract provisions Percentage of completion revenue recognition On occasion, the Group accounts for certain Services contracts using the percentage of completion method, recognising revenue by reference to the stage of completion of the contract which is determined by actual costs incurred as a proportion of total forecast contract costs.
This method places considerable importance on accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion of the contract and may involve estimates on the scope of services required for fulfilling the contractually defined obligations.
These significant estimates include total contract costs, total contract revenues, contract risks, including technical risks, and other assumptions.
Under the percentage of completion method, the changes in these estimates and assumptions may lead to an increase or decrease in revenue recognised at the balance sheet date with the in-year revenue recognition appropriately adjusted as required.
When the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that expenses incurred are eligible to be recovered.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration.
The key judgements are the extent to which revenue should be recognised and also, where total contract costs are not covered by total contract revenue, the extent to which an adjustment is required.
Additionally, where contracts are renegotiated mid-life, Management will consider when to make a revenue adjustment.
Contract provisions During the year, Management held a number of difficult contracts under review that were considered to be performing below expectation.
The number of contracts under review fluctuated during the year between seven and 12 2017: seven and 12.
Each contract was subject to a detailed review to consider the reasons behind the lower than anticipated performance and the potential accounting impacts related effect on revenue recognition estimates and contract provisions.
For a limited number of these difficult contracts, where there was no immediate operational or commercial remedy for the performance, a range of possible outcomes for the estimate of the total contract costs and total contract revenues was considered to determine whether a provision is required and, if so, the best estimate of the provision.
The revenue recognised in the year from these contracts under review was approximately 30.1 million 2017: 53.6 million.
The range of potential scenarios considered by management in respect of these specific contracts resulted in a reduction in margins, recognised in 2018 of 13.6 million 2017: 4.0 million, in the year.
At 31 December 2018, based on Managements best estimate, there was a provision of 16.4 million 2017: 8.2 million against future losses with the total costs to complete on these contracts estimated at 76.9 million 2017: 48.0 million.
The key judgements are determining which contracts are considered difficult and estimating the provision from the range of possible outcomes.
Critical judgements Judgements made by Management in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements, are as follows: 3.2.
Exceptional items Exceptional items remain a core focus of Management with the recent Alternative Performance Measure regulations providing further guidance in this area.
131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 1 Management is required to exercise its judgement in the classification of certain items as exceptional and outside of the Groups adjusted results.
The overall goal of Management is to present the Groups underlying performance without distortion from one-off or non-trading events regardless of whether they are favourable or unfavourable to the underlying result.
To achieve this, Management have considered the materiality, infrequency and nature of the various items classified as exceptional this year against the requirements and guidance provided by IAS 1, our Group accounting policies and the recent regulatory interpretations and guidance.
In reaching their conclusions, Management consider not only the effect on the overall underlying Group performance but also where an item is critical in understanding the performance of its component Segments which is of relevance to investors and analysts when assessing the Group result and its future prospects as a whole.
Further details of the individual exceptional items, and the reasons for their disclosure treatment, are set out in note 6.
Technology Sourcing principal versus agent recognition Management is required to exercise its judgement in the classification of certain revenue contracts for Technology Sourcing revenue recognition on either an agent or principal basis.
Because the identification of the principal in a contract is not always clear, Management will make a determination by evaluating the nature of our promise to our customer as to whether it is a performance obligation to provide the specified goods or services ourselves, in that we are the principal, or to arrange for those goods or services to be provided by the other party, where we are the agent.
We determine whether we are a principal or an agent for each specified good or service promised to the customer by evaluating the nature of our promise to the customer against a non-exhaustive list of indicators that a performance obligation could involve an agency relationship: Evaluating who controls each specified good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer: The vendor retains primary responsibility for fulfilling the sale: We take no inventory risk before or after the goods have been ordered, during shipping or on return: We do not have discretion to establish pricing for the vendors goods limiting the benefit we can receive from the sale of those goods: and Our consideration is in the form of a, usually predetermined, commission.
Management continues to monitor the primary indicators used to assess the agent principal presentation of our Software and certain Resold Services revenue against our general contractual terms and conditions including detailed analysis of how terms and conditions are applied in practice, the weighting applied to the agent principal indicators and evaluation of emerging practice.
Management has concluded that whilst this remains a finely balanced judgement, no change to the presentation of our Software and certain Resold Services revenues, which contributed 704 million and 278 million to the Groups revenue in 2018 respectively, is required and revenue for these items will continue to be presented gross where the underlying facts and circumstances remain the same.
Management continue to monitor the emergence of new methods of transacting business within the traditional vendor to reseller channel.
A new line of business has recently emerged within our Technology Sourcing business where vendors and customers typically approach us with an opportunity where the vendor is taking the contract and performance risks and sets the selling price, using Computacenter as a pass-through agent in the channel to transact the deal for a set fee.
To date, these have been primarily large software deals where there is no ongoing obligation of service on us following the transaction.
We have no say in the pricing or selection of the product and are merely standing in the sales channel between the vendor and customer for the predetermined fee.
Management review the facts and circumstances of these types of deals, case by case, with regards to its specific terms and conditions against the Groups accounting policy to determine whether our performance obligation is to provide the good or service itself, where we are acting as the principal in the deal, or to arrange for another party to provide the good or service, where we are acting as an agent.
Based on the facts and circumstances of each deal we have classified several of these deals as agency concluding that the fee received should be booked as net revenue.
Such agency deals contributed 3.1 million to revenue during the year.
Change in critical estimates and critical judgements During the year, Management reassessed the critical estimates and critical judgements and resolved that no change was needed from last year in critical estimates and critical judgements except for the addition of 3.2.
4 Segment information During the first half of the year, Management reviewed the way it reported Segmental performance to the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, who is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, to determine whether it could improve the transparency and understandability of the trading performance of its core Group Operating Model geographies.
As a result of this analysis, the Board has decided to adopt a new Segmental reporting structure from the period ended 30 June 2018.
In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group has identified four revised operating Segments: UK: Germany: France: and International.
132 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 As the location of the Groups headquarters, the UK entity has also borne an increasing share of corporate costs since the rollout of the Group Operating Model from 2013.
Certain expenses such as those for the Board itself, and related public company costs, Group Executive members not aligned to a specific geographic trading entity and the cost of centrally funded strategic corporate initiatives that benefit the whole Group, are not allocated to individual Segments because they are not directly attributable to any single Segment.
Accordingly, these expenses are disclosed as a separate column, Central Corporate Costs, within the segmental note.
Under the previous Segmental reporting structure, the UK Segment included a number of other operating entities, primarily international Global Service Desk locations.
Whilst these entities have limited external revenues, and a cost recovery model that suggests better than breakeven margins to ensure compliance with transfer pricing regulations, this generated unnecessary complexity when presenting the UK results to the Board and the CODM, with the growth in the number and scale of these other operating entities blurring the underlying performance of the core geography over time.
The revised UK Segment now only comprises the trading performance of Computacenter UK.
The German Segment has been revised to remove the independently run Computacenter Switzerland operation, including cITius, which has been transferred to the International Segment, leaving the German country trading operations standing alone.
The new International Segment replaces the Belgian Segment and includes the Belgium, Switzerland, USA, FusionStorm, Netherlands and TeamUltra trading operations, along with the international Global Service Desk locations in South Africa, Spain, Hungary, Mexico, Poland, Malaysia, India and China.
The International Segment has been created to reflect the Groups ambitions to continue to expand its worldwide footprint.
This includes expanding trading operations into new geographic locations, both within our Western European heartland and beyond, and the need to continue to identify talent-rich offshore locations, to ensure that we can remain both cost and resource competitive in the Services marketplace.
The French Segment remains unchanged from that reported at 31 December 2017.
This new Segmental reporting structure is the basis on which internal reports are provided to the Chief Executive Officer, as the CODM, for assessing performance and determining the allocation of resources within the Group.
Segmental performance is measured based on external 1 1 1 revenues, adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax.
The change in Segment reporting has no impact on reported Group numbers.
To enable comparisons with prior year performance, historical Segment information for the year ended 31 December 2017 is restated in accordance with the revised Segmental reporting structure.
All discussion within this Annual Report and Accounts on Segmental results reflects this revised structure, the reclassification of Central Corporate Costs and the resultant prior year restatements.
Segmental performance for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 Central UK Germany France International Corporate Costs Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Revenue Technology Sourcing revenue 1,155,608 1,330,616 393,769 297,588 3,177,581 Services revenue Professional Services revenue 116,440 166,471 18,914 20,090 321,915 Managed Services revenue 333,829 375,591 80,568 63,086 853,074 Total Services revenue 450,269 542,062 99,482 83,176 1,174,989 Total revenue 1,605,877 1,872,678 493,251 380,764 4,352,570 Results 1 Adjusted gross profit 203,507 231,191 55,655 57,905 548,258 1 Adjusted administrative expenses 145,856 164,332 48,601 45,515 25,188 429,492 1 Adjusted operating profit loss 57,651 66,859 7,054 12,390 25,188 118,766 1 Adjusted net interest 141 45 162 554 530 1 Adjusted profit loss before tax 57,792 66,904 6,892 11,836 25,188 118,236 Exceptional items: interest cost relating to acquisition of a subsidiary 417 costs relating to acquisition of a subsidiary 5,240 gain on disposal of an investment property Total exceptional items 5,657 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4,451 Statutory profit before tax 108,128 133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 4 Segment information continued 1 The reconciliation for adjusted operating profit to statutory operating profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 Total 000 Adjusted1 operating profit 118,766 Add back interest on CSF 293 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4,451 Exceptional items 5,240 Statutory operating profit 109,368 Central UK Germany France International Corporate Costs Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Other Segment information Property, plant and equipment 41,532 50,558 5,612 8,565 106,267 Investment property Intangible assets 21,057 18,444 148 144,964 184,613 Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 12,079 30,408 867 2,088 45,442 Software 4,870 730 166 169 5,935 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7,893 7,287 1,630 2,570 19,380 Depreciation of investment property Amortisation of software 9,449 1,275 50 203 10,977 Share-based payments 5,035 1,334 56 6,425 Year ended 31 December 2017 restated Central UK Germany France International Corporate Costs Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Revenue Technology Sourcing revenue 986,677 1,200,871 405,139 43,507 2,636,194 Services revenue Professional Services revenue 141,507 151,306 18,120 8,223 319,156 Managed Services revenue 335,145 362,481 86,684 53,711 838,021 Total Services revenue 476,652 513,787 104,804 61,934 1,157,177 Total revenue 1,463,329 1,714,658 509,943 105,441 3,793,371 Results 1 Adjusted gross profit 196,170 214,743 53,539 31,618 496,070 1 Adjusted administrative expenses 144,632 156,489 47,931 22,530 19,001 390,583 1 Adjusted operating profit loss 51,538 58,254 5,608 9,088 19,001 105,487 1 Adjusted net interest 607 472 193 144 742 1 Adjusted profit before tax 52,145 58,726 5,415 8,944 19,001 106,229 Exceptional items: onerous contracts provision for future losses 1,371 Total exceptional items 1,371 Gain on disposal of an investment property 4,320 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 225 Statutory profit before tax 111,695 134 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 1 The reconciliation for adjusted operating profit to statutory operating profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2017 Total 000 Adjusted1 operating profit 105,487 Add back interest on CSF 159 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 225 Exceptional items 1,371 Statutory operating profit 106,792 Central UK Germany France International Corporate Costs Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Other Segment information Property, plant and equipment 37,404 26,849 6,262 7,389 77,904 Investment property Intangible assets 25,645 18,850 28 35,812 80,335 Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 8,976 18,432 960 2,071 30,439 Software 8,460 1,109 9 40 9,618 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6,097 6,426 1,736 2,125 16,384 Depreciation of investment property 91 91 Amortisation of software 10,873 1,088 21 255 12,237 Share-based payments 5,068 1,211 79 6,200 Information about major customers Included in revenues arising from the UK Segment are revenues of approximately 277 million 2017: 288 million which arose from sales to the Groups largest customer.
For the purpose of this disclosure, a single customer is considered to be a group of entities known to be under common control.
This customer consists of entities under control of the UK Government.
Contract balances The following table provides the information about contract assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers.
31 December 1 January 2018 2018 Note 000 000 Contract assets, which are included in trade and other receivables 19 1,180,394 835,446 Contract assets, which are included in prepayments 6,451 7,926 Contract assets, which are included in accrued income 101,899 102,922 Contract liabilities, which are included in deferred income 143,080 113,875 the balances in this column are subsequent to adjustments recorded on implementation of IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018.
Significant changes in contract assets and liabilities Contract assets are balances due from customers under long-term contracts as work is performed and therefore a contract asset is recognised over the period in which the performance obligation is fulfilled.
This represents the Groups right to consideration for the services transferred to date.
Amounts are generally reclassified to contract receivables when these have been certified or invoiced to a customer.
Revenue recognised in the reporting period that was included in the contract liability balance at the beginning of the period was 79.3 million.
Revenue recognised in the reporting period from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods was nil.
Partially satisfied performance obligations continue to incur revenue and costs in the period.
135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 4 Segment information continued Remaining performance obligations Work in hand Contracts which have remaining performance obligations as at 31 December 2018 are set out in the table below.
The table below discloses the aggregate transaction price relating to those unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations, excluding both a amounts relating to contracts for which revenue is recognised as invoiced and b amounts relating to contracts where the expected duration of the ongoing performance obligation is one year or less.
As permitted under the transitional provisions in IFRS 15, the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations as of 31 December 2017 is not disclosed.
FY2023 and FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 beyond Total m m m m m m Managed Services 613 323 216 146 48 1,346 The average duration of contracts is between one to five years, however some contracts will vary from these typical lengths.
Revenue is typically earned over these varying timeframes, however more of the revenue noted above is expected to be earned in the short term.
5 Group operating profit This is stated after charging crediting : 2018 2017 000 000 Auditors remuneration: Audit of the Financial Statements 50 44 Audit of subsidiaries 722 559 Total audit fees 772 603 Audit-related assurance services 50 55 Taxation compliance services 9 19 Other assurance services 17 10 Taxation advisory services 13 Other non-audit services 132 200 Total non-audit services 208 297 Total fees 980 900 The other non-audit services of 0.1 million 2017: 0.2 million during the year, relates to the financial due diligence conducted by KPMG LLP in connection with the acquisition of FusionStorm.
2018 2017 000 000 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19,380 16,384 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 177 535 Depreciation of investment property 91 Gain on disposal of an investment property 4,320 Amortisation of software 10,977 12,020 Loss gain on disposal of software 164 688 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 4,451 217 Gain loss on net foreign currency differences 2,209 1,565 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 2,852,157 2,362,861 Operating lease payments 39,764 34,469 136 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 6 Exceptional items 2018 2017 000 000 Operating profit Onerous contracts 1,371 Costs relating to acquisition of a subsidiary 5,240 5,240 1,371 Interest cost relating to acquisition of a subsidiary 417 Gain on disposal of an investment property 4,320 Loss gain on exceptional items before taxation 5,657 5,691 Income tax Tax on onerous contracts included in operating profit 351 Tax on exceptional items 1,353 Tax relating to acquisition of a subsidiary 3,091 Loss gain on exceptional items after taxation 1,213 5,340 2018: Included within the current year are the following exceptional items: An exceptional loss during the year of 5.2 million resulted from costs directly relating to the acquisition of FusionStorm.
These costs include a severance payment for the FusionStorm Chief Executive Officer, agreed as part of the acquisition, advisor fees and a finders fee that was paid on completion of the transaction.
These costs are non-operational in nature, material in size and unlikely to recur and have therefore been 1 classified as outside our adjusted results.
A further 0.4 million relating to the unwinding of the discount on the deferred consideration for the 1 purchase of FusionStorm has been removed from the adjusted net finance expense and classified as exceptional interest costs.
A credit of 1.4 million arising from the tax benefit on the FusionStorm exceptional acquisition costs has been recognised as tax on the above exceptional items.
A further tax credit of 3.1 million was recorded due to post-acquisition activity in FusionStorm, related to the transaction, which has resulted in a material in-year tax benefit.
This activity included settlement of phantom stock awards, deal bonus and change of control payments which were settled by the vendor, out of the consideration paid, via post-acquisition capital contributions to FusionStorm.
As this credit was related to the acquisition and not operational activity within FusionStorm, is of a one-off nature and material to the overall tax result, it was classified this as an exceptional tax item.
2017: Included within the prior year are the following exceptional items: The remaining provisions for the last two onerous contracts in Germany were released, for an exceptional gain of 1.4 million.
These provisions were originally booked in 2013 and the contracts have now returned to profitability, so the provisions are no longer required.
As these provisions were booked as exceptional items, this release has also been classified as such.
The disposal of an investment property in Braintree, Essex, was completed on 26 May 2017 for 14.5 million.
This property was associated with a former subsidiary of the Group, R. D. Trading Limited, which was itself sold in February 2015.
Due to the size and non-operational nature of the transaction, the 4.3 million gain on disposal, net of 0.2 million disposal costs, has been classified as exceptional.
137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 7 Staff costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors during the year was made up as follows: 2018 2017 No.
UK 4,125 4,210 Germany 6,124 5,607 France 1,528 1,557 International 3,340 2,652 15,117 14,026 Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 2018 2017 000 000 Wages and salaries 735,234 652,988 Social security costs 110,758 102,121 Share-based payments 6,425 6,200 Pension costs 24,667 23,186 877,084 784,495 Share-based payments arise from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
8 Finance income 2018 2017 000 000 Bank interest receivable 792 854 Other interest received 458 667 1,250 1,521 9 Finance costs 2018 2017 000 000 Bank loans and overdrafts 756 355 Finance charges payable on CSF 293 159 Other interest 1,441 424 2,490 938 138 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 10 Income tax a Tax on profit from ordinary activities 2018 2017 000 000 Tax charged in the Consolidated Income Statement Current income tax UK corporation tax 12,528 11,995 Foreign tax operating results before exceptional items 20,942 14,661 exceptional items 4,444 351 Total foreign tax 29,026 15,012 Adjustments in respect of prior years 148 Total current income tax 29,174 27,007 Deferred tax Operating results before exceptional items: origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,830 3,374 adjustments in respect of prior years 145 Total deferred tax 1,975 3,374 Tax charge in the Consolidated Income Statement 27,199 30,381 b Reconciliation of the total tax charge 2018 2017 000 000 Accounting profit before income tax 108,128 111,695 At the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 19 per cent 2017: 19.25 per cent 20,544 21,501 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 987 675 Non-deductible element of share-based payment charge 589 1,297 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 384 58 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 6,736 7,050 Other differences 334 683 Overseas tax not based on earnings 1,390 1,526 Tax effect of income not taxable in determining taxable profit 2,427 832 Deferred tax not recognised on current year losses 98 95 At effective income tax rate of 25.2 per cent 2017: 27.2 per cent 27,199 30,381 c Tax losses Deferred tax assets of 4.2 million 2017: 2.7 million have been recognised in respect of losses carried forward.
In addition, at 31 December 2018, there were unused tax losses across the Group of 152.6 million 2017: 152.0 million for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Of these losses, 40.1 million 2017: 40.9 million arise in Germany and 112.5 million 2017: 111.1 million arise in France.
A significant proportion of the losses arising in Germany have been generated in statutory entities that no longer have significant levels of trade.
The remaining unrecognised tax losses relate to other loss-making overseas subsidiaries.
139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 10 Income tax continued d Deferred tax Deferred income tax at 31 December relates to the following: Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement Consolidated Balance Sheet of Comprehensive Income 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Deferred income tax liabilities Revaluations of foreign exchange contracts to fair value 738 1,293 555 194 Amortisation of intangibles 16,727 506 1,196 49 Gross deferred income tax liabilities 17,465 1,799 Deferred income tax assets Relief on share option gains 4,868 2,868 2,000 1,072 Other temporary differences 4,887 4,192 277 1,164 Revaluations of foreign exchange contracts to fair value 121 659 119 157 Losses available for offset against future taxable income 4,167 2,666 1,934 3,294 Gross deferred income tax assets 14,043 10,385 Deferred income tax charge 1,975 3,374 Net deferred income tax assets 3,422 8,586 Disclosed on the Consolidated Balance Sheet Deferred income tax assets 9,587 9,063 Deferred income tax liabilities 13,009 477 Net deferred income tax liabilities assets 3,422 8,586 At 31 December 2018, there was no recognised or unrecognised deferred income tax liability 2017: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the Groups subsidiaries as the Group expects that future remittances of earnings from its overseas subsidiaries will continue to be covered by relevant dividend exemptions.
Where, following the departure of the UK from the European Union, the Groups European subsidiaries unremitted earnings are no longer covered by a dividend exemption, appropriate mitigating steps are envisaged that would eliminate the incidence of withholding tax.
e Impact of rate change The main rate of UK Corporation tax is 19 per cent from 1 April 2017 and will be reduced to 17 per cent from 1 April 2020, as enacted in the Finance Act 2015.
The deferred tax in these Consolidated Financial Statements reflects this.
11 Earnings per share Earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year excluding own shares held.
To calculate diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential shares.
Share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year are considered to be dilutive potential shares.
2018 2017 000 000 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 80,931 81,314 2018 2017 000 000 Basic weighted average number of shares excluding own shares held 113,409 120,766 Effect of dilution: Share options 1,984 1,471 Diluted weighted average number of shares 115,393 122,237 2018 2017 pence pence Basic earnings per share 71.4 67.3 Diluted earnings per share 70.1 66.5 140 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 12 Dividends paid and proposed 2018 2017 000 000 Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2017: 18.7 pence 2016: 15 pence 21,075 18,151 Interim dividend for 2018: 8.7 pence 2017: 7.4 pence 9,805 8,961 30,880 27,112 Proposed not recognised as a liability as at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2018: 21.6 pence 2017: 18.7 pence 24,654 21,344 13 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Short fittings, Freehold land leasehold equipment and and buildings improvements vehicles Total 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2017 66,799 27,723 135,558 230,080 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 19 282 301 Additions 10,449 1,695 18,295 30,439 Disposals 532 22,829 23,361 Foreign currency adjustment 236 564 1,889 2,689 At 31 December 2017 77,484 29,469 133,195 240,148 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries note 17 1,859 6,480 8,339 Additions 8,604 6,243 30,595 45,442 Disposals 989 15,798 33,290 50,077 Foreign currency adjustment 358 329 1,408 2,095 At 31 December 2018 85,457 22,102 138,388 245,947 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 38,919 18,177 109,964 167,060 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 20 20 Provided during the year 1,507 1,980 12,897 16,384 Disposals 532 22,436 22,968 Foreign currency adjustment 16 538 1,194 1,748 At 31 December 2017 40,442 20,163 101,639 162,244 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries note 17 1,255 1,771 3,026 Provided during the year 1,509 2,215 15,656 19,380 Disposals 989 15,732 29,233 45,954 Foreign currency adjustment 10 119 855 984 At 31 December 2018 40,972 8,020 90,688 139,680 Net book value At 31 December 2018 44,485 14,082 47,700 106,267 At 31 December 2017 37,042 9,306 31,556 77,904 At 1 January 2017 27,880 9,546 25,594 63,020 141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 13 Property, plant and equipment continued Included in the figures above are the following amounts relating to leased assets which are used to satisfy specific customer contracts: Fixtures, fittings, equipment and vehicles 2018 2017 000 000 Cost At 1 January 18,117 30,234 Additions 7,196 3,127 Disposals 10,316 15,430 Foreign currency adjustment 351 186 At 31 December 15,348 18,117 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 13,490 26,608 Provided during the year 3,175 2,250 Disposals 10,316 15,430 Foreign currency adjustment 232 62 At 31 December 6,581 13,490 Net book value 8,767 4,627 14 Investment property 2018 2017 000 000 Cost At 1 January 11,167 Disposals 11,167 At 31 December Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 1,134 Provided during the year 91 Disposals 1,225 At 31 December Net book value On 26 May 2017, the Group disposed its only investment property for 14.5 million.
The property was in Braintree, Essex, and was owned by Digica Group Finance Limited a fully-owned subsidiary of the Group.
A gain of 4.3 million was recorded on disposal, net of 0.2 million of disposal costs.
142 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 15 Intangible assets Acquired intangible assets Customer Goodwill Software relationship Others Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2017 58,722 95,449 20,103 174,274 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 6,727 123 6,850 Additions 9,618 9,618 Disposals 3,243 3,243 Foreign currency adjustment 796 329 37 1,162 At 31 December 2017 66,245 102,276 20,140 188,661 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries note 17 45,704 1,057 61,090 3,070 110,921 Additions 5,935 5,935 Disposals 9,354 1,315 10,669 Foreign currency adjustment 1,948 173 1,935 691 4,747 At 31 December 2018 113,897 100,087 63,025 22,586 299,595 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2017 10,445 68,446 19,098 97,989 Provided during the year 12,020 217 12,237 Disposals 2,551 2,551 Foreign currency adjustment 371 241 39 651 At 31 December 2017 10,816 78,156 19,354 108,326 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries note 17 890 890 Provided during the year 10,977 1,049 3,402 15,428 Disposals 9,190 1,315 10,505 Foreign currency adjustment 166 136 293 248 843 At 31 December 2018 10,982 80,969 1,342 21,689 114,982 Net book value At 31 December 2018 102,915 19,118 61,683 897 184,613 At 31 December 2017 55,429 24,120 786 80,335 At 1 January 2017 48,277 27,003 1,005 76,285 16 Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and other non-current assets Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to the following CGUs: Computacenter UK Limited Computacenter Germany Computacenter France Computacenter AG cITius AG Computacenter Belgium TeamUltra Limited FusionStorm Computacenter Netherlands formerly Misco Solutions B. V. These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal Management purposes.
143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 16 Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and other non-current assets continued Movements in goodwill Computacenter TeamUltra Computacenter Computacenter Computacenter Computacenter Fusion Computacenter UK Limited Limited Germany France AG cITius AG BelgiumStorm Netherlands Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 1 January 2017 30,429 15,425 1,068 1,355 48,277 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 4,620 2,107 6,727 Foreign currency adjustment 481 52 115 111 425 31 December 2017 30,429 4,620 15,906 1,016 1,992 1,466 55,429 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 42,415 3,289 45,704 Foreign currency adjustment 244 53 104 90 1,276 15 1,782 31 December 2018 30,429 4,620 16,150 1,069 2,096 1,556 43,691 3,304 102,915 Market growth rate 1.7% 1.7% 1.0% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 2.0% 1.3% Discount rate 11.0% 11.0% 11.0% 12.0% 12.0% 12.0% 15.0% 12.0% 12.0% Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on a value-in-use calculation.
To calculate this, cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by Senior Management covering a three-year period and on long-term market growth rates of between 1.5 and 2.0 per cent 2017: between 1.5 and 2.5 per cent thereafter.
Key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation for all CGUs for 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 are: budgeted revenue, which is based on long-run market growth forecasts: budgeted gross margins, which are based on average gross margins achieved in the year immediately before the budgeted year, adjusted for expected long-run market pricing trends: and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections ranges from 11.0 to 15.0 per cent 2017: 11.0 to 15.0 per cent which represents the Groups pre-tax discount rate adjusted for the risk profiles of the individual CGUs.
Each CGU generates value substantially in excess of the carrying value of goodwill attributed to each of them.
Management therefore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
Other acquired intangible assets Other acquired intangible assets consist of order back log and tools and technology.
The expected useful lives are shown in note 2.
Other non-current assets When there is an indication of impairment within a CGU, the carrying value of the non-current assets are compared to their recoverable amount which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs of disposal or the value-in-use of the CGU calculated as described above.
17 Investments a Investment in associate The following table illustrates summarised information of the investment in associates: 2018 2017 000 000 Cost At 1 January 605 604 Exchange rate movement 1 1 At 31 December 606 605 144 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 2018 2017 000 000 Impairment At 1 January and 31 December 549 549 Carrying value 57 56 Gonicus GmbH The Group has a 20 per cent 2017: 20 per cent interest in Gonicus GmbH, whose principal activity is the provision of Open Source Software.
Gonicus is a private entity, incorporated in Germany, that is not listed on any public exchange and therefore there is no published quotation price for the fair value of this investment.
The reporting date of Gonicus is 31 December.
ICS Solutions Limited The Group has a 25 per cent 2017: 25 per cent interest in ICS Solutions Limited ICS whose principal activity is the delivering of both on-premise and cloud-based services and solutions across the Microsoft technology stack.
ICS is a private entity, incorporated in the United Kingdom, that is not listed on any public exchange and therefore there is no published quotation price for the fair value of this investment.
The reporting date of ICS is 30 June.
b Investment in subsidiaries The Groups subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Proportion of voting rights and shares held Name Country of incorporation Nature of business 2018 2017 1 vi vi Computacenter NV SA Belgium IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 2 v FusionStorm Beijing VAR Company Limited China IT infrastructure services 100% 3 v FusionStorm Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong IT infrastructure services 100% 4 Computacenter UK Limited England IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 4 i i TeamUltra Limited England IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 5 Computacenter France SAS France IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 6 Computacenter AG & Co oHG Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 7 Computacenter Aktiengesellschaft Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 7 Computacenter Management GmbH Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 7 Computacenter Managed Services GmbH Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 8 Computacenter Holding GmbH Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 8 ii ii Computacenter Germany AG & Co oHG Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 8 ii ii EZWO Computervertriebs Germany IT infrastructure services 99.05% 99.05% 8 ii ii Alfatron GmbH Elektronik Vertrieb Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 8 ii ii CNARIO Informationsprodukte Vertriebs-GmbH Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 9 v FusionStorm Netherlands, B. V. Netherlands IT infrastructure services 100% 10 Computacenter NV Netherlands IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 11 Computacenter BV Netherlands IT infrastructure services 100% 12 i i Computacenter Services and Solutions Pty Limited South Africa IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 13 Computacenter AG Switzerland IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 14 iii iii cITius AG Switzerland IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 15 v fusionstorm USA IT infrastructure services 100% 15 v FusionStorm Acquisition Corp. USA IT infrastructure services 100% 15 v FusionStorm International Inc. USA IT infrastructure services 100% 16 i Computacenter U. S. Inc. USA IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 4 i i Digica Group Finance Limited England Investment property 100% 100% 6 Computacenter Immobilien GmbH Germany Investment property 100% 100% 17 i i Computacenter Information Technology China International call centre services 100% 100% Shanghai Company Limited 18 i i Computacenter Services Kft Hungary International call centre Services 100% 100% 19 viii viii Computacenter India Private Limited India International call centre services 100% 100% 20 i i Computacenter Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia International call centre services 100% 100% 21 viii viii Computacenter Mxico S. A. fide C. V. Mexico International call centre services 100% 100% 22 vii Computacenter Poland Sp.
z o. o. Poland International call centre services 100% 145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 17 Investments continued Proportion of voting rights and shares held Name Country of incorporation Nature of business 2018 2017 23 i i Computacenter Services Iberia SLU Spain International call centre services 100% 100% 24 v FusionStorm Netherlands Cooperatief Netherlands Financial holdings 100% 4 i i Computacenter Trustees Limited England Employee share scheme trustees 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Quest Trustees Limited England Employee share scheme trustees 100% 100% 4 i i Allnet Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Amazon Computers Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Amazon Energy Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Amazon Systems Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i CAD Systems Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Compufix Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter FMS Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Management Services Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Mid-Market Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Consumables Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Distribution Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Leasing Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Maintenance Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Overseas Holdings Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Services Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Software Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Solutions Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computacenter Training Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computadata Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Computer Services Group Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Digica FMS Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Digica Group Holdings Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Digica Group Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Digica Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Digica SMP Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i ICG Services Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i M Services Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Merchant Business Systems Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 4 i i Merchant Systems Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 5 iv iv Logival SARL France Dormant company 100% 100% 25 v v Computacenter US Defense Inc. USA Dormant company 100% 100% 10 Beech Avenue 54-80 1119 PW Schiphol-Rjik i Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter UK Limited.
ii Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter Holding GmbH, 11 Gondel 1, 1186 MJ Amstelveen, Netherlands 12 Building 1, Parc du Cap, Mispel Road, Bellville, 7535, Cape Town excludes EZWO Computervertriebs which is 99.05 per cent.
iii Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter AG.
13 Riedstrasse 14, CH-8953 Dietikon 14 Giessereistrasse 4, CH-8620 Wetzikon iv Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter France SAS.
v Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter U. S. Inc. 15 124 Grove Street, Suite 311, Franklin, MA 02038 16 50 Tice Blvd, Suite 340, Woodcliff Lake, NJ 07677 vi Includes indirect holdings of 1 per cent via Computacenter UK Limited.
vii Includes indirect holdings of 99 per cent via Computacenter UK Limited.
17 Unit 229, Block 2, Building 1, Huanhu West 2nd Road no.
888 Nanhui New Town, Putong District, Shanghai viii Includes indirect holdings of 99.99 per cent via Computacenter UK Limited.
18 Haller Gardens, Building D. 1st Floor, Soroksri t 30-34, Budapest 1095 19 No.
3093, 6A Main, 13th Cross, HAL 2nd Stage, Indiranagar, Bangalore, 560008 1 Ikaroslaan 31, B-1930 Zaventem 2 2 F, Building 6, Tian Tan East Road 31, Dongcheng District, Beijing City 20 Level 9, Tower 1, Puchong Financial Corporate Centre, Jalan Puteri 1 2, Bandar Puteri, 47100 Puchong, Selangor Darul Ehsan 3 3806 Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 4 Hatfield Avenue, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL10 9TW 21 Av.
412 floor 5, Col. Jurez, Delegacin Cuauhtmoc, CP06600, Mxico City 5 Agence fide Roissy, 229 rue fide la Belle toile, ZI Paris Nord II, BP 52387, 95943 Roissy CDG Cedex 22 Ul.
Glogowska 31 33, 60-702, Pozna, Poland 23 Carrer fide Sancho fide Avila 52-58, 08018, Barcelona 6 Computacenter Park 1, 50170 Kerpen, Germany 7 Kattenbug 2, 50667 Kln 24 Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097JB, Amsterdam 8 Werner-Eckert-Str.
16-18, 81829 Mnchen 25 250 Pehle Avenue, Suite 311 Plaza One, Saddle Brook 9 Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097JB Amsterdam Computacenter plc is the ultimate Parent entity of the Group.
146 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 FusionStorm On 1 October 2018, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the voting shares of FusionStorm for an initial consideration of $69.3 million and agreed to a maximum undiscounted contingent consideration of $20.0 million, dependent upon the achievement of agreed performance criteria over the next two and a half years from the date of acquisition.
The acquisition-related costs amounted to $2.6 million and are included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
FusionStorm is based in the United States of America and is an IT product provider.
The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The following table summarises the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition: Provisional fair value to the Group 000 Intangible assets 66,192 Property, plant and equipment 5,053 Inventories 47,378 Trade and other receivables 95,790 Cash and short-term deposits 5,130 Prepayments 3,102 Deferred tax assets 4,237 Trade and other payables 161,649 Deferred tax liabilities 20,622 Loans and borrowings 18,916 Net assets acquired 25,695 Goodwill arising on acquisition 43,757 69,452 Discharged by: Cash paid on acquisition 54,882 Contingent consideration 14,570 69,452 Cash and cash equivalents acquired Cash and short-term deposits 5,130 Cash outflow on acquisition 49,752 The initial accounting for the acquisition of FusionStorm has only been provisionally determined at the date of finalisation of these Consolidated Financial Statements based on Managements best estimates.
Included in the 43.8 million of goodwill that arose on acquisition are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured under IFRS 3 Business Combination from the acquiree due to their nature.
These mainly include a footprint from which to grow in the US and skillset of the workforce.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2018, FusionStorm contributed 246.0 million to the Groups revenue and a loss of 0.04 million to the Groups profit after tax.
Contingent consideration Based on the performance of the business in FY2018 and the forecasted performance for FY2019, Managements assessment is that it is highly probable that the maximum contingent consideration will become payable and accordingly the discounted maximum contingent consideration has been included in the provisional fair value to the Group.
Management concluded that the contingent consideration was actually consideration and not remuneration on the basis that individuals who were selling shareholders due the consideration were not required to remain in employment post-acquisition.
147 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 17 Investments continued Computacenter Netherlands On 1 September 2018, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the voting shares of Computacenter Netherlands for a total consideration of 7.0 million.
The acquisition-related costs amounted to 161,000 and are included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Due to the size of the balance, the acquisition cost is not treated as an exceptional item.
Computacenter Netherlands is based in the Netherlands and is an IT service provider.
The following table summarises the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition: Provisional fair value to the Group 000 Property, plant and equipment 547 Inventories 5,221 Trade and other receivables 8,489 Prepayments 305 Cash and short-term deposits 71 Trade and other payables 7,967 Financial liabilities 3,666 Net assets acquired 3,000 Goodwill arising on acquisition 3,289 6,289 Discharged by: Cash paid on acquisition 6,289 Cash and cash equivalents acquired Cash and short-term deposits 71 Cash outflow on acquisition 6,218 The initial accounting for the acquisition of Computacenter Netherlands has only been provisionally determined at the date of finalisation of these Consolidated Financial Statements based on Managements best estimates.
Included in the 3.3 million of goodwill that arose on acquisition are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured under IFRS 3 Business Combination from the acquiree due to their nature.
These items include the expected value of synergies, a footprint from which to grow in the Netherlands and an assembled workforce.
These intangible assets are not considered material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2018, Computacenter Netherlands contributed 24.9 million to the Groups revenue and a loss of 0.2 million to the Groups profit after tax.
If the acquisition of FusionStorm and Computacenter Netherlands were completed on 1 January 2018, the Groups revenue for the year would have been 4,965.0 million and the Groups profit after tax would have been 84.3 million.
18 Inventories 2018 2017 000 000 Inventories for re-sale 99,524 69,289 19 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 000 000 Trade receivables 1,128,456 808,037 Other receivables 51,938 27,409 1,180,394 835,446 148 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 For terms and conditions relating to related party receivables, refer to note 33.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90-day credit terms.
Note 26 sets out the Groups strategy towards credit risk.
The movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 At 1 January 12,480 12,315 Charge for the year 14,709 10,959 Utilised 6,565 6,891 Unused amounts reversed 5,001 3,639 Foreign currency adjustment 4,235 264 At 31 December 19,858 12,480 There was no change made to the level of provision for doubtful debts upon the adoption of IFRS 9.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Due to strong cash generation over the past three years, the Group is now in a position where it can finance its operational requirements from its cash balance.
The Group does, however, retain overdraft facilities where required.
The uncommitted overdraft facilities available to the Group are 11.7 million at 31 December 2018 2017: 10.0 million.
During 2013, the Group entered into a specific committed facility of 40.0 million.
This facility was renewed for a second time for a further three years and extended to a value of 60.0 million.
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: 2018 2017 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 200,442 206,605 Bank overdrafts note 22 6 200,442 206,599 Expected credit loss on cash and cash equivalents is negligible and therefore no provision is held.
149 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 21 Trade and other payables 2018 2017 000 000 Trade payables 885,834 587,963 Other payables 256,794 204,017 1,142,628 791,980 For terms and conditions relating to related parties, refer to note 33.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on net monthly terms.
The Group had no short-term supplier extended-term interest-bearing credit facilities 2017: nil.
Other payables, which principally relate to other taxes, social security costs and accruals, are non-interest bearing and have an average term of three months.
22 Financial liabilities 2018 2017 000 000 Current Bank loan 7,472 2,213 Bank overdrafts 6 Current obligations under finance leases CSF note 24 3,168 1,536 10,640 3,755 Non-current Bank loan 126,762 8,454 Non-current obligations under finance leases CSF note 24 5,760 3,209 132,522 11,663 There are no material differences between the fair value of financial liabilities and their book value.
Bank loans The Group has three principal bank loans: A loan of 100 million was drawn down at 2.05 per cent interest rate to finance the acquisition of FusionStorm see note 17.
Repayment of this loan will commence in H1 2019 and will continue for three years: a loan of 8 million was taken out on 21 December 2017.
Repayments commenced in FY2018 and will continue for four years.
The loan carries fixed interest rate at 1.65 per cent per annum.
The loan is taken out to finance the fit-out of the new German headquarters building and Integration Center in Kerpen: and a loan of 4 million was taken out on 27 December 2017.
Repayments commenced in FY2018 and will continue for nine years.
The loan carries fixed interest rate at 1.95 per cent per annum.
The loan is taken out to finance the acquisition of the new German headquarters building in Germany, which has been mortgaged to the lender.
Bank overdrafts The bank overdrafts are unsecured and are subject to annual review.
Finance leases The finance leases are only secured on the assets that they finance.
These assets are in the main used to satisfy specific customer contracts.
There are a small number of assets that are utilised internally.
The finance lease and loan facilities are committed.
Facilities At 31 December 2018, the Group had available 11.7 million of uncommitted overdraft facilities 2017: 10.0 million.
150 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 23 Forward currency contracts 2018 2017 000 000 Financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss Foreign exchange forward contracts 39 503 Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange forward contracts 3,278 6,510 3,239 7,013 Cash flow hedges Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through other comprehensive income These amounts reflect the change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges which are used to hedge expected contract costs in South African rand and Hungarian forint where sales on those contracts are in pound sterling, based on highly probable forecast transactions.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss The Group also enters into other foreign exchange forward contracts with the intention to reduce the foreign exchange risk of expected sales and purchases.
When these other contracts are not designated in hedge relationships they are measured at fair value through profit and loss within administrative expenses.
The foreign exchange forward contract balances vary with the level of expected foreign currency costs and changes in the foreign exchange forward rates.
Effectiveness of hedging The terms of the foreign currency forward contracts have been negotiated for the expected highly probable forecast transactions to which hedge accounting has been applied.
No significant element of hedge ineffectiveness required recognition in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The cash flow hedges of the forecasted costs were assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealised gain of 3,278,000 2017: 6,510,000 with a deferred tax liability of 616,000 2017: 1,107,000 relating to the hedging instruments is included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The amounts retained in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income of 3,278,000 2017: 6,510,000 are expected to mature and affect the Consolidated Income Statement between 2019 and 2021.
Forward currency contracts At 31 December 2018 the Group held foreign exchange contracts as hedges of an inter-company loan and future expected payments to suppliers.
The exchange contracts are being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The terms of these contracts are detailed below: 31 December 2018 Buy currency Sell currency Nominal value of contracts Maturity dates Contract rates UK Sterling Euros 16,883,650 Jan 19 Apr 20 1.059 1.143 Sterling Hungarian forint 525,253 Jan 19 Apr 19 368.560 369.203 Sterling Polish zloty 838,346 Jun 19 4.7713 Sterling SA rand 6,883,563 Jan 19 Oct 22 18.943 27.262 US dollars Sterling $54,253,759 Jan 19 Aug 21 1.261 1.422 Euros Sterling 3,482,554 Jan 19 Mar 19 1.105 1.1192 Australian dollars Sterling AUD 267,000 Jan 19 1.811 Swiss francs Sterling CHF 1,960,000 Jan 19 Dec 19 1.236 1.257 Hungarian forint Sterling HUF 614,700,000 Jan 19 358.167 358.211 Norwegian krone Sterling NOK 437,0000 Jan 19 Feb 19 11.026 11.028 Swedish krona Sterling SEK 13,300,000 Feb 19 11.303 11.429 SA rand Sterling ZAR 291,452,508 Jan 19 Oct 22 18.443 23.505 Germany Euros US dollars 88,773,641 Jan 19 Nov 20 1.138 1.221 Euros Hungarian forint 3,512,731 Jan 19 Jun 20 311.50 327.10 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 23 Forward currency contracts continued 31 December 2017 Buy currency Sell currency Nominal value of contracts Maturity dates Contract rates UK Euros Sterling 548,700 Apr 18 Apr 20 1.059 1.079 Sterling US dollars 5,067,217 Jan 18 Mar 18 1.340 1.355 Sterling Euros 45,391,545 Jan 18 Apr 18 1.112 1.137 Sterling Swiss francs 1,986,063 Jan 18 Dec 18 1.304 1.335 US dollars Sterling $104,511,035 Jan 18 Aug 21 1.303 1.432 SA rand Sterling ZAR 440,841,213 Jan 18 Oct 22 16.864 33.050 Sterling Swedish krona 371,554 Jan 18 11.035 Sterling Singapore dollars 146,361 Jan 18 1.811 Sterling Hungarian forint 1,901,225 Jan 18 Mar 18 347.016 351.136 Hungarian forint Sterling HUF 139,600,000 Jan 18 Apr 18 363.959 365.056 Sterling Hong Kong dollars 332,962 Jan 18 10.662 Germany US dollars Euros $86,681,596 Jan 18 Dec 18 1.169 1.221 Hungarian forint Euros HUF 1,043,407 Jan 18 322.75 323.58 Belgium Sterling Euros 5,319,723 Jan 18 0.881 0.891 SA rand Euros ZAR 1,779,558 Jan 18 May 22 16.1684 22.7142 Sterling Euros 365,333 Jan 18 1.1304 24 Obligations under leases a Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for various items of plant and machinery: these leases have no terms of renewal or purchase options and escalation clauses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 2018 2017 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments 000 000 000 000 Within one year 3,409 3,168 1,712 1,536 After one year but not more than five years 5,952 5,760 3,399 3,209 9,361 8,928 5,111 4,745 Future finance charges 433 366 Present value of finance lease obligation 8,928 4,745 b Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles and items of small machinery.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
Future commitments payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Within one year 45,183 50,300 After one year but not more than five years 80,970 89,233 More than five years 10,879 7,970 137,032 147,503 c Operating lease receivables where the Group is lessor The Group entered into commercial leases with customers on certain items of machinery.
These leases have remaining terms of between one and five years.
Future amounts receivable by the Group under the non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Within one year 159 158 152 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 25 Provisions Customer Retirement contract benefit Property Other Total provisions obligation provisions provisions provisions 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2018 5,904 2,913 463 9,280 Reclassification from other payables 8,196 8,196 Amounts reversed 1,100 1,100 Arising during the year 14,734 1,440 16,174 Utilised 5,645 47 173 5,865 Exchange adjustment 209 119 11 7 346 At 31 December 2018 16,394 7,416 2,751 470 27,031 Current 2018 10,271 1,249 470 11,990 Non-current 2018 6,123 7,416 1,502 15,041 16,394 7,416 2,751 470 27,031 Current 2017 1,218 463 1,681 Non-current 2017 5,904 1,695 7,599 5,904 2,913 463 9,280 Customer contract provision Following implementation of IFRS 15 and due to materiality of the provisions on difficult customer contracts, the provisions for difficult customer contracts were reclassified from other payables to be disclosed as provisions.
These provisions result from customer contracts where total cost exceeds total revenue.
Retirement benefit obligation The Group has a provision against the retirement benefit obligations in France under the Indemnits fide Fin fide Carrire IFC as described in note 2.13.3.
Economic outflows under the obligation only occur if eligible employees reach the statutory retirement age whilst still in employment or made redundant.
The Group made 47,000 of payments during 2018 under this obligation 2017: 8,000.
In estimating the provision required, Management is required to make a number of assumptions.
The key areas of estimation uncertainty are the discount rate applied to future cash flows, the turnover rate of employed personnel and rate of salary increases over the length of their projected employment.
The level of unrealised actuarial gains or losses are sensitive to changes in the discount rate, which is affected by market conditions and therefore subject to variation.
Management makes use of an independent actuarial valuation in reaching its conclusions.
The net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2018 in respect of the Groups French retirement benefit obligations under the IFC was 7.4 million 2017: 5.9 million.
Key movements during the year include a charge to the Consolidated Income Statement of 0.4 million for the service cost and an actuarial loss taken through reserves of 1.0 million.
The key driver of actuarial loss this year was the change in demographic assumptions mainly due to change in staff turnover rates assumption in the actuarial valuation.
Property provisions Assumptions used to calculate the property provisions are based on 100 per cent of the market value of the rental charges plus any contractual dilapidation expenses on empty properties and the Directors best estimates of the likely time before the relevant leases can be reassigned or sublet, which ranges between one and 15 years.
The provisions in relation to the UK properties are discounted at a rate based upon the Bank of England base rate.
Those in respect of the European operations are discounted at a rate based on Euribor.
Other provisions Included within other provisions are the residual estimated costs associated with elements of the comprehensive transformation of the Groups French business that occurred in 2014 for 0.1 million and the Line of Business restructure that occurred during 2016 for 0.1 million.
The remaining nature of the costs previously provided for primarily include retraining and resettlement costs for redundant employees are expected to be utilised in 2019.
The 2014 transformation provision was based inter alia on assumptions concerning the duration of individual settlement payment programmes and the uptake of retraining and resettlement packages.
As disclosed last year, there remains some residual uncertainty relating to individual legal challenges to the implementation of the Social Plan.
These uncertainties arise both from technical arguments around whether the Social Plan process followed was procedurally correct and had pre-existing approval from the multiple, potentially interested, regulatory authorities and also from a challenge as to whether Computacenter France was damaging to the overall Group competitiveness and economic performance.
Having taken independent legal advice on this matter Management has applied judgements which it considers reasonable in establishing the required provision.
Management retains a provision, within the amount disclosed above, for legal expenses of 0.3 million directly related to these individual legal challenges to termination settlements provided under the Social Plan.
153 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 26 Financial instruments An explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the Group Finance Directors review on pages 56 to 66. Credit risk The Group principally manages credit risk through management of customer credit limits.
The credit limits are set for each customer based on the creditworthiness of the customer and the anticipated levels of business activity.
These limits are initially determined when the customer account is first set up and are regularly monitored thereafter.
The balance of trade receivables relates to customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivables from the date the credit was initially granted up to the reporting date and considers forward-looking information to determine the appropriate expected credit loss for the whole remaining life of the trade receivable.
The maximum exposure on trade receivables, as at the reporting date, is their carrying value.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, current asset investment and forward currency contracts, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group manages its counterparty credit risk by placing cash on deposit across a panel of reputable banking institutions, with no more than 50.0 million deposited at any one time except for UK Government-backed counterparties where the limit is 70.0 million.
Aside from the counterparty risk above, there are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings, cash and short-term deposits and finance leases and loans for certain customer contracts.
The Groups bank borrowings, existing committed and uncommitted facilities and deposits are at floating rates.
No interest rate derivative contracts have been entered into.
If long-term borrowings were to be utilised in the future, the Groups policy would be to maintain these borrowings at fixed rates to limit the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Interest rate sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings.
There is no impact on the Groups equity.
Effect on profit Change in before tax basis points 000 2018 Sterling 25 153 Euro 25 150 US dollars 25 26 2017 Sterling 25 307 Euro 25 135 US dollars 25 36 The impact of a reasonable possible decrease to the same range shown in the table would result in an opposite impact on the profit before tax of the same magnitude.
Fair values The carrying value of the Groups short-term receivables and payables is a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
The fair value of all other financial instruments carried within the Consolidated Financial Statements is not materially different from their carrying amount.
Exchange rate sensitivity The Group is exposed to transactional foreign currency risk to the extent that there is a mismatch between the currencies in which sales, purchases and receivables are denominated and the respective functional currencies of Group companies.
The functional currencies of material overseas subsidiaries are primarily the euro, US dollar US$, South African rand ZAR and Swiss franc CHF.
The Groups risk management policy is to hedge all of its expected foreign currency exposure in respect of sales and purchases as soon as these are committed.
The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk.
The principal currencies hedged by forward foreign exchange contracts are $, ZAR and HUF.
154 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 However, the hedge accounting is mainly applied to the expected trading cash flows denominated in ZAR, HUF and where the exposure extends beyond one year and there is a strong expectation that the expected future foreign currency cash flow will occur.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge these cash flows.
When a commitment is entered into, forward foreign exchange contracts are normally used to increase the hedge to 100 per cent of the expected exposure although between 80 per cent and 110 per cent of the expected exposure should be hedged to meet risk management policy.
The Group designates all of its forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk and applies a hedge ratio of 1:1.
The Groups policy is for the critical terms of the forward exchange contracts to align with the hedged item.
The Group determines the existence of an economic relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item based on the currency, amount and timing of their respective cash flows.
The Group assesses whether the derivative designated in each hedging relationship is expected to be and has been effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item using the hypothetical derivative method.
In these hedge relationships, the main sources of ineffectiveness are: the effect of the counterparties and the Groups own credit risk on the fair value of the forward foreign exchange contracts, which is not reflected in the change in the fair value of the hedged cash flows attributable to the change in exchange rates: actual cash flows in foreign currencies varying from forecast cash flows: and changes in the timing of the hedged transactions.
Other than differences arising from the translation of results of operations outside of the Groups functional currency, reasonably foreseeable movements in the exchange rates of 10 per cent or -10 per cent would not have a material impact on the Groups profit before tax or equity.
The summary quantitative data about the Groups exposure to currency risk as reported to the management of the Group is as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 000 000 USD EUR USD EUR Trade and other receivables 272,944 755,899 157,124 557,655 Trade and other payables 260,980 725,789 136,309 484,941 Net statement of financial position 11,964 30,110 20,815 72,714 Forward exchange contracts 111,803 20,092 188,881 20,367 Net exposure 123,767 10,018 209,696 52,347 Liquidity risk The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities as at 31 December based on contractual undiscounted payments: On demand 3 months 312 months 15 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2018 Financial liabilities 7,645 16,788 118,729 143,162 Derivative financial instruments 612 612 Trade and other payables 1,142,628 1,142,628 1,150,885 16,788 118,729 1,286,402 On demand 3 months 312 months 15 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2017 Financial liabilities 6 982 2,945 11,852 15,785 Derivative financial instruments 1,196 1,196 Trade and other payables 791,980 791,980 6 792,962 4,141 11,852 808,961 155 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 26 Financial instruments continued Fair value measurements recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Financial instruments which are recognised at fair value subsequent to initial recognition are grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
The three levels are defined as follows: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Derivative financial instruments forward currency contracts At 31 December 2018 the Group had forward currency contracts, which were measured at Level 2 fair value subsequent to initial recognition, to the value of a net asset of 3,239,000 2017: 7,013,000.
The realised gains from forward currency contracts in the year to 31 December 2018 of 6,510,000 2017: 6,293,000 with a deferred tax liability of 1,107,000 2017: 1,070,000, are offset by broadly equivalent realised losses on the related underlying transactions.
Contingent consideration The contingent consideration that resulted from the acquisition of FusionStorm of $20.0 million, were measured at Level 3 fair value, subsequent to initial recognition.
The Group used discounted cash flows DCF as a valuation technique to derive fair value of the contingent consideration as at 31 December 2018.
Having considered a range of possible earn out scenarios, management determined that a full accrual of $20.0 million discounted to 14.6 million using a weighted average discount rate of 11 per cent, should be recorded as contingent consideration.
This estimate is not considered to be sensitive to reasonable changes in underlying assumptions.
The contingent consideration of 14.6 million is included in Trade and other payables as at 31 December 2018.
27 Capital management Computacenters approach to capital management is to ensure that the Group has a strong capital base to support the development of the business and to maintain a strong credit rating, whilst aiming to maximise shareholder value.
Consistent with the Groups aim to maximise return to shareholders, the Companys Dividend Policy is to maintain a dividend cover of between 2 to 2.5 times.
In 2018 the cover was 2.5 times on an 1 adjusted profit basis 2017: 2.5 times.
The Groups capital base is primarily utilised to finance its fixed assets and working capital requirements.
The Group seeks to optimise the use of working capital and improve its cash flow.
As a consequence, the UK has sourced an increasing proportion of its product business via distributors in order to reduce the working capital requirements of the business.
Capital is allocated across the Group in order to minimise the Groups exposure to exchange rates.
Each country finances its own working capital requirements, typically resulting in borrowings in France with cash on deposit in the UK and Germany.
A notional cash pooling arrangement, which was introduced in 2013, expired in early 2017.
Subsequent to expiry, an internal cash pooling arrangement was implemented which utilises internal Group financing arrangements.
In certain circumstances, the Group enters into customer contracts that are financed by leases, which are secured only on the assets that they 3 finance, or loans.
Whilst the outstanding amounts of this CSF are included within net funds for statutory reporting purposes, the Group excludes 3 this CSF when managing the net funds of the business as this outstanding financing is matched by committed future revenues.
These financing facilities, which are committed, are thus outside of the normal working capital requirements of the Groups product resale and services activities.
In certain circumstances, the Group deposits its funds in short-term investments that do not fulfil the criteria to be classified as cash and cash 3 equivalents.
The Group considers these deposits when managing the net funds of the business, and accordingly includes these deposits within 3 net funds excluding CSF.
3 Capital, defined as net funds, that the Group monitors is disclosed in note 30.
Each operating country manages its working capital in line with Group policies.
The key components of working capital, i. e. trade receivables, inventory and trade payables, are managed in accordance with an agreed number of days targeted in the budget process, in order to ensure efficient capital usage.
An important element of the process of managing capital efficiently is to ensure that each operating country rewards behaviour at an account manager and account director level to minimise working capital, at a transactional level.
This is achieved by increasing commission payments for early payment by customers and reduced commission payments for late payment by customers, which encourages appropriate behaviour.
The Group regularly reviews the adequacy of its facilities against any foreseeable peak borrowing requirement.
See note 20 for details on uncommitted overdraft facilities available to the Group.
28 Issued capital and reserves Authorised share capital In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The Companys Articles of Association has been amended to reflect this change.
156 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Issued share capital ordinary shares 5 7 p ordinary 0.01p 9 shares Deferred shares Total Issued and fully paid No.
000 000 At 1 January 2018 122,688 292,944 9,299 Cancellation of deferred shares 292,944 29 At 31 December 2018 122,688 9,270 During the year, the issued share capital remained unchanged.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the general meetings of the Company.
On a winding up of the Company, holders of ordinary shares may be entitled to the residual assets of the Company.
The Company has a number of share option schemes under which options to subscribe for the Companys shares have been granted to Executive Directors and certain senior management note 29.
Cancellation of deferred shares The Company announced on 14 December 2018 that, in accordance with the provisions of its articles of association, 228,443,966 deferred shares, being all of the outstanding deferred shares held by deferred shareholders in connection with the return of value in 2013 and the return of value in 2015, were transferred to the Company for nil consideration and cancelled on 13 December 2018.
The Company also announced, on the same date, that the 64,500,230 deferred shares held in treasury were cancelled by the Company on 13 December 2018.
Share premium The share premium account is used to record the aggregate amount or value of premiums paid when the Companys shares are issued redeemed at a premium.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve is used to maintain the Companys capital following the purchase and cancellation of its own shares.
During the year the Company repurchased nil of its own shares for cancellation 2017: nil.
Own shares held Own shares held comprise the following: i Computacenter Employee Share Ownership Plan 5 Shares in the Parent undertaking comprise 1,411,245 2017: 1,588,994 7 9 pence ordinary shares of Computacenter plc purchased by the Computacenter Employee Share Ownership Plan the Plan.
The principal purpose of the Plan is to be funded with shares that will satisfy discretionary executive share plans.
The number of shares held represents 1.15 per cent 2017: 1.3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
Since 31 December 2002, the definition of beneficiaries under the ESOP Trust has been expanded to include employees who have been awarded 5 options to acquire ordinary shares of 7 9 pence each in Computacenter plc under other employee share plans of the Group, namely the Computacenter Service Group plc Approved Executive Share Option Plan, the Computacenter plc Employee Share Option Scheme 1998, the Computacenter Service Group plc Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme, the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998, the Computacenter plc Sharesave Plus Scheme and any future similar share ownership schemes.
All costs incurred by the Plan are settled directly by Computacenter UK Limited and charged in the accounts as incurred.
5 The Plan Trustees have waived the dividends receivable in respect of 1,411,245 7 9 pence ordinary shares 2017: 1,588,994 that it owns which are all unallocated shares.
ii Computacenter Qualifying Employee Share Trust the Quest 5 The total shares held are 336,181 2017: 188,822 7 9 pence ordinary shares, which represents 0.27 per cent 2017: 0.15 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
All of these shares will continue to be held by the Quest until such time as the Sharesave options granted against them are exercised.
The Quest Trustees have waived dividends in 5 respect of all of these shares.
During the year the Quest subscribed for nil 7 9 pence ordinary shares 2017: nil.
iii Treasury Shares On 23 January 2018, the Company published details of the timing and structure of a Return of Value by way of a shareholder circular the Circular.
On 13 February 2018, the Company announced the results of the Tender Offer set out in the Circular, which closed on 9 February 2018.
A total of 8,546,861 ordinary shares were purchased at a price per ordinary share of 1,170 pence, for a total cost of 99,998,273.70.
This represented approximately 6.97 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2017.
157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 28 Issued capital and reserves continued The Company holds the ordinary shares purchased pursuant to the Tender Offer in treasury.
Immediately following the purchase, the Companys 5 issued share capital consisted of 122,687,970 ordinary shares of 7 9 pence each, each carrying one voting right, of which the Company held 8,546,861 ordinary shares in treasury.
As at 31 December 2018, the total number of voting rights in the Company which may be used by shareholders as the denominator for the calculations by which they can determine if they are required to notify their interest in, or a change to their interest in the Company, under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, is 114,141,109.
The percentage of voting rights attributable to those shares it holds in treasury following the share buy-back is 6.97 per cent.
Translation and hedging reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries.
The hedging reserve represents the cumulative amount of gains and losses on hedging instruments deemed effective in cash flow hedges.
29 Share-based payments Executive share option scheme 5 During the year, nil options were exercised with respect to 7 9 pence ordinary shares 2017: nil at a nominal value of nil 2017: nil at an aggregate premium of nil 2017: nil.
Under the Computacenter Employee Share Option Scheme 1998 and the Computacenter Services Group Executive Share Scheme, options in respect of nil 2017: nil shares lapsed.
Computacenter Performance Share Plan PSP Under the Computacenter PSP, shares granted will be subject to certain performance conditions as described in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as at 31 December 2018 is 1.2 years 2017: 1.2 years.
Computacenter Sharesave Scheme SAYE The Group operates a Sharesave Scheme which is available to all employees and full time Executive Directors of the Group and its subsidiaries who have worked for a qualifying period.
All options granted under this scheme are satisfied at exercise by way of a transfer of shares from the Computacenter Qualifying Employee Share Trust.
and WAEP of share options for the Sharesave Scheme: 2018 2018 2017 2017 No.
WAEP Sharesave Scheme Outstanding at the beginning of the year 4,307,465 6.26 4,099,366 4.28 Granted during the year 865,055 11.01 1,129,930 8.21 Forfeited during the year 241,775 6.94 213,777 5.89 Exercised during the year 720,818 5.01 708,054 4.58 Outstanding at the end of the year 4,209,927 7.41 4,307,465 6.26 Exercisable at the end of the year 321,346 5.40 167,149 5.44 Note The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 10.94 2017: 10.08.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as at 31 December 2018 is 3.0 years 2017: 3.2 years.
159 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 29 Share-based payments continued The fair value of the PSP, DBP and SAYE plans are estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
The following tables give the assumptions made during the year ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017: 2018 Nature of the PSP PSP PSP PSP PSP DBP DBP SAYE SAYE arrangement scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme Date of grant 21 03 2018 21 03 2018 21 03 2018 18 05 2018 01 10 2018 21 03 2018 21 03 2018 24 10 2018 24 10 2018 Number of instruments granted 233,823 139,092 83,793 29,950 14,985 19,340 19,341 309,211 555,844 Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil nil 11.86 10.54 Share price at date of grant 11.83 11.83 11.83 13.14 12.81 11.83 11.83 12.44 12.44 Contractual life years 3 5 3 3 3 1 2 3 5 See the Annual See the Annual See the Annual See the Annual Remuneration Remuneration Remuneration Remuneration Report on Report on Report on Report on Three-year Five-year page 74 in 2017 page 74 in 2017 page 74 in 2017 page 74 in 2017 service period service period See note 1 Annual Report Annual Report See note 1 See note 1 Annual Report Annual Report and savings and savings Vesting conditions below and Accounts and Accounts below below and Accounts and Accounts requirement requirement Expected volatility n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 29.1% 27.9% Expected option life at grant date years 3 5 3 3 3 1 2 3 5 Risk-free interest rate n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 2.23% 2.23% Dividend yield 2% 2% 2% 1.8% 2% 2% 2% 2.34% 2.34% Fair value per granted instrument determined at grant date 11.14 10.71 11.14 12.44 11.31 11.59 11.36 2.65 3.40 2017 PSP PSP PSP PSP SAYE SAYE Nature of the arrangement scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme Date of grant 04 07 2017 18 09 2017 22 03 2017 22 03 2017 01 12 2017 01 12 2017 Number of instruments granted 62,150 10,648 335,235 375,717 362,917 767,013 Exercise price nil nil nil nil 8.88 7.89 Share price at date of grant 8.04 9.86 7.37 7.37 10.78 10.78 Contractual life years 3 3 3 3 3 5 See the Annual See the Annual Remuneration Remuneration Report on Report on Three-year Five-year page 75 in 2016 page 75 in 2016 service period service period Annual Report See note 1 Annual Report See note 1 and savings and savings Vesting conditions and Accounts below and Accounts below requirement requirement Expected volatility n a n a n a n a 25.3% 28.4% Expected option life at grant date years 3 3 3 3 3 5 Risk-free interest rate n a n a n a n a 0.74% 0.74% Dividend yield 3.0% 2.4% 3.2% 3.2% 2.5% 2.5% Fair value per granted instrument determined at grant date 7.37 9.18 6.69 6.69 2.36 3.21 Note 1.
Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2005, as amended at the AGM held on 19 May 2015.
One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 5 per cent per annum.
One-half of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 7.5 per cent and will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 10 per cent.
If the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period is between 5 and 10 per cent, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis.
The performance period usually covers a period of three years from 1 January of the year the award is granted.
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the recent historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
No other features of the options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
161 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 32 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The Group has a defined contribution pension plan, covering substantially all of its employees in the UK.
The amount recognised as an expense for this plan is detailed in note 7.
Details of the Retirement Benefit obligation for Computacenter France are given below.
2018 2017 000 000 Total defined benefit liability 7,416 5,904 Movements in total defined benefit liability 2018 2017 000 000 Balance at 1 January 5,904 4,714 Included in Consolidated Income Statement Current service cost 423 361 Interest cost 75 63 498 424 Included in Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Remeasurements loss gain : Actuarial loss gain arising from: 942 593 Changes in demographic assumptions 1,279 Change in financial assumptions 144 Experience adjustment 193 593 Effect of movements in exchange rates 119 182 1,061 775 Other Contributions paid by the employer Benefits paid 47 9 47 9 Balance at 31 December 7,416 5,904 Actuarial assumptions The following are the principal actuarial assumptions at 31 December expressed as weighted averages : 2018 2017 % % Discount rate 1.50 1.30 Future salary growth 1.50 1.50 Turnover rates: Non-managers 17.20 13.00 Supervisors 12.60 9.60 Executives 10.20 20.30 At 31 December 2018, the discount rate used was 1.5 per cent 2017: 1.3 per cent with reference to the iBoxx Corporate AA 10y index.
Sensitivity analysis Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Discount rate 1 per cent movement 862 1,014 695 819 Future salary growth 1 per cent movement 1,006 872 810 702 Turnover rates 1 per cent movement 586 658 483 544 Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
162 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 33 Related party transactions During the year the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties.
Transactions entered into are as described below: Biomni provides the Computacenter e-procurement system used by many of Computacenters major customers.
An annual fee has been agreed on a commercial basis for use of the software for each installation.
Both PJ Ogden and PW Hulme are Directors of and have a material interest in Biomni Limited: and Triage Services Limited mainly provides IT hardware repair services to many of Computacenters customers.
MJ Norris is a Director of and has a material interest in Triage Services Limited.
The table below provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year: Sales Purchases Amounts owed to related from related to related parties parties parties 000 000 000 Biomni Limited 23 838 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arms-length transactions.
Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables.
The Group has not recognised any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties.
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors The Board of Directors is identified as the Groups key management personnel.
Please refer to the information given in the remuneration table in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 91 for details of compensation given to the Groups key management personnel.
A summary of the compensation of key management personnel is provided below: 2018 2017 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 1,791 1,842 Social security costs 433 383 Share-based payment transactions 1,367 1,563 Pension costs 65 51 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 3,656 3,839 The interest of the key management personnel in the Groups share incentive schemes are disclosed in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 94 to 95.
34 Contingent liabilities The Company has given a guarantee in the normal course of business to suppliers of subsidiaries undertaking for an amount not exceeding 158.3 million 2017: 117.6 million.
