ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 180 Shareholder information Warning about unsolicited approaches to Forward Looking Statements Directors shareholders and Boiler Room scams This Annual Report has been prepared for, Craig A. Huff In recent years, many companies have and only for, the members of ContourGlobal Joseph C. Brandt become aware that their shareholders plc the Company as a body, and for no Ruth Cairnie have received unsolicited phone calls or other persons.
The Company, its Directors, Daniel Camus correspondence concerning investment employees, agents or advisors do not Alan Gillespie matters.
These are typically from overseas accept or assume responsibility to any Alejandro Santo Domingo based brokers who target UK shareholders, other person who receives or sees this Ronald Trchsel document and any such responsibility or Gregg M. Zeitlin offering to sell them what often turn out tobe worthless or high risk shares in liability is expressly disclaimed.
These operations are nature, the statements concerning the Registered Office commonly known as boiler rooms.
risksand uncertainties facing the Group 15 Berkeley Street inthis Annual Report involve uncertainty London These brokers can be very persistent because future events and circumstances W1J 8DY andpersuasive.
ContourGlobal plc can causeresults and developments to United Kingdom shareholders are advised to be extremely differmaterially from those anticipated.
wary of such approaches and advised Forward-looking statements in this annual Company Number toonly deal with firms authorized by the report reflect knowledge and information 10982736 FCA.
Youcan check whether an enquirer available at the date of preparation of isproperly authorized and report scam thisAnnual Report and the Company Auditor undertakes no obligation to update  LLP approaches by contacting the FCA on www.
uk scams where you may also theseforward-looking statements after 1 Embankment Place review the latest scams or by calling the publication.
Nothing in this Annual Report London FCA Consumer Helpline: 0800 111 6768. should be construed as a profit forecast.
WC2N 6RH United Kingdom If you have already paid money toshare fraudsters then contact ActionFraud on Registrar 0300 123 2040.
Equiniti Limited Aspect House Registrar Spencer Road The Companys register of shareholders Lancing ismaintained by our Registrar, Equiniti West Sussex BN99 6DA Limited.
All enquiries regarding United Kingdom shareholder administration including lost share certificates or changes of address should be communicated to the Registrar in writing or by calling 0871 384 2030 for callers from the UK1 or 44 0 121 415 7047 for callers from outside the UK.
Shareholders can also view and manage their shareholdings online by registering atwww.
1 Calls to this number are charged at 10 pence perminute plus network extras.
Lines are open8.30am to 5.30pm Mondays to Fridays, excluding Bank Holidays in England and Wales.
Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com ContourGlobal plc 15 Berkeley Street 6th floor London, W1J 8DY www.
