ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 122 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements full year there were no changes in rights or proportion of control 1.
General information exercised as a result of this transaction.
Although the  plc the Company is a public listed company, share exchange resulted in a change of legal ownership, this was limited by shares, domiciled in the United Kingdom and a common control transaction and therefore outside the scope incorporated in England and Wales.
It is the holding company ofIFRS 3.
In substance, these financial statements reflect the forthe group whose principal activities during the period were continuation of the pre-existing group and the financial statements theoperation of wholesale power generation businesses with have been prepared by applying the principles of predecessor Thermal and Renewables assets in Europe, Latin America and accounting.
In each period, the financial statements have been Africa, and its registered office is: prepared by applying the principles underlying the consolidation procedures of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 6th Floor IFRS10.
15 Berkeley Street London The components of equity in the consolidated statement of W1J 8DY changes in equity for the comparative period reflect the United Kingdom constituent parts of equity required to be separately disclosed under IAS 1, based upon the consolidated position prior to the Registered number: 10982736 capital reorganization, and non-controlling interests.
As it is not meaningful to show the share capital for the predecessor Group, ContourGlobal plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
as of 1st January 2017, the remaining equity of the predecessor group is represented by the cumulative investment of Basis of preparation ContourGlobal L. P. in the Group shown as Invested Capital.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Thecurrent and prior year consolidated statement of financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS position presents the legal change in ownership of the Group, as endorsed by and adopted for use by the European Union EU, including the share capital of the Company following the capital IFRS Interpretation Committee IFRS IC interpretations and with reorganization that occurred in 2017 as described in note 4.22. those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies The revised capital structure is also presented in the consolidated reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have statement of changes in equity, which reflects the share for share been prepared on the going concern basis under the historical exchange, capital reduction and cancellation of deferred shares cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets that occurred during the prior year.
and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Summary of significant accounting policies 2.1.
Application of new and revised International Financial The financial information is prepared in accordance with IFRS Reporting Standards IFRS under the historical cost convention, as modified for the IFRS 15 Revenue from contract with customers revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The financial The Group adopted IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with information is presented in millions of U. S. dollars, with one Customers, from 1st January 2018.
The Group used the modified decimal.
Thus numbers may not sum precisely due to rounding.
retrospective approach for the first application under which the comparative amounts in the consolidated statement of income The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the and other comprehensive income and the consolidated statement consolidated financial statements are set out in note 2.3.
These of financial position are not restated and instead are presented in policies have been consistently applied to the periods presented, accordance with IAS 18.
To determine the impact of IFRS 15 on the unless otherwise stated.
In particular, as the Group has Group, management grouped power purchase agreements with implemented IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers similar contractual terms, and performed a detailed revenue using the modified retrospective approach, related amounts in the accounting assessment for each group.
This exercise identified consolidated statement of income and comprehensive income the following main impacts for the Group as being: and the consolidated statement of financial position for 2018 are not comparable with the corresponding amounts in 2017.
See note i An increase in revenue from grossing up certain costs 2.1 for further details.
The financial information presented is at thatwere previously netted down: the Group recognized andfor the financial years ended 31st December 2018 and anincrease of costs of sales to match the fair value of the 31stDecember 2017.
Financial year ends have been referred gassupplied to its Arrubal plant from its main client and toas31st December throughout the consolidated financial corresponding increase in revenue: this resulted in an statements as per the accounting reference date of ContourGlobal increase of revenue by $19.6 million for the year ended plc.
Financial years are referred to as 2018 and 2017 in these 31stDecember 2018: consolidated financial statements.
ii Additional performance obligations identified for service The preparation of the IFRS financial statements requires the use concession contracts which resulted in a decrease of revenue of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and an increase of costs of sales by $15.9 million for the year ofassets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial ended 31st December 2018 mainly due to the timing of major statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses maintenance activities: and during the year.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, iii A modification to a contract in Maritsa that is recognized actual results may differ from those estimates, as noted in the prospectively from the contract modification: this resulted critical accounting estimates and judgements in note 2.4. inanincrease ofrevenue by $1.3 million for the year ended 31st December 2018: On 17th October 2017, the Company obtained control of the entire share capital of ContourGlobal Worldwide Holdings S.. r. l from ContourGlobal L. P. via a share-for-share exchange.
The principal operating subsidiary undertakings of the Group are owned directly or indirectly by ContourGlobal Worldwide Holdings S.. r. l. For the ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 123 The table below summarizes impacts of IFRS 15 implementation on the statement of income for the year ended 31st December 2018: Statement Statement of income Impact of of income under adopting under In $ millions Notes IAS18 IFRS 15 IFRS15 Revenue 1,248.0 5.0 1,253.0 Cost of sales 929.8 3.7 933.5 Gross profit 318.2 1.3 319.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses 28.3 28.3 Other operating income net 9.7 9.7 Acquisition related items 19.6 19.6 Income from Operations 260.6 1.3 261.9 Other income expenses net 0.4 0.4 Share of profit in associates 2.9 2.9 Finance income 10.6 10.6 Finance costs 255.7 255.7 Realized and unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses and change in fair 8.5 8.5 value of derivatives Profit before income tax 26.5 1.3 27.8 Income tax expenses 16.7 0.7 17.4 Net profit 9.8 0.7 10.4 Profit Loss attributable to Group 13.7 1.3 15.0 Non-controlling interests 4.0 0.6 4.6 The table below summarizes impacts of IFRS 15 implementation on the consolidated statement of financial position as of 1st January 2018: 1st January 1st January 2018 In $ millions Notes 2018 Restatement restated Assets 3,281.6 76.9 3,204.7 3,009.8 75.8 2,934.0 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 2,350.3 1.4 2,348.9 1 2 617.7 80.0 537.7 Financial and contract assets Deferred tax assets 2 41.8 5.6 47.4 271.8 1.1 270.7 Current assets Trade and other receivables 3 271.8 1.1 270.7 240.3 29.7 210.6 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 127.7 36.2 91.5 2 65.5 8.0 57.5 Deferred tax liabilities Provisions 1 62.2 28.2 34.0 112.6 6.5 119.1 Current liabilities Other current liabilities 3 112.6 6.5 119.1 383.8 47.2 336.6 Equity and non-controlling interest Retained earnings and other reserves 187.3 38.1 149.2 196.5 9.1 187.4 Non-controlling interests ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 124 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued IFRS 9 Financial instruments 2.
Summary of significant accounting The Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, from 1st January policiescontinued 2018, which replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments Recognition 1 The Group has assessed the performance obligations POs and measurement and addresses the classification and asdefined under IFRS 15 for all its power plants under service measurement of financial instruments, introducing new principles concession agreements, namely KivuWatt in Rwanda, Togo and for hedge accounting and a new forward-looking impairment Cap des Biches in Senegal.
The identification of the following model for financial assets.
POsresulted in adjusting the value of the financial and contract assets, contract liabilities, provisions and related deferred tax The adoption of IFRS 9 hedge accounting principles did not have assets and liabilities: any material impact on the financial statements.
The adoption ofIFRS 9 did not result in any changes in the measurement Construction and transfer of the power plant: no change in initial orclassification of financial instruments at 1st January 2018. values.
The margin recognized during the construction period is Allclasses of financial assets and financial liabilities had the immaterial as engineering of the project is largely outsourced.
samecarrying values under IFRS 9 as they had under IAS 39 Significant financing component: revenue is represented by asat1stJanuary 2018. interest generated on the funding of the total construction costs, and is recognized over the period of the contract consistent with 2.2.
New standards and interpretations not yet mandatorily the previous model.
Under IFRS 15, the interest rate corresponds applicable to the last USD bonds issued by the country representing the On 1st January 2019 the Group will adopt IFRS 16 Leases, which financing rate that the local government could have obtained at has been issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU.
This is a the time of the construction versus incremental rate of the significant new standard for the Group and the expected impacts contract for the previous model.
These changes resulted in are discussed below.
significantly reducing the value of the line item Financial and contract assets as of 1st January 2018 for the three assets.
In addition to IFRS 16, a number of additional new standards and Operation, maintenance and major maintenance activities: such amendments and revisions to existing standards have been activities are part of the services rendered to the client during published which will apply to the Groups future accounting the concession period.
A margin is applied which falls into a periods.
They have not been early adopted.
None of these are reasonable range for such activities in such countries.
The major expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated results, maintenance is considered as a distinct PO rendered after financial position or cash flows of the Group when they are pre-defined thresholds and operating hours.
IFRS15 a revenue and a margin is applied to this PO when costsare incurred, which resulted in removing the gross IFRS 16 Leases maintenance provision initially recorded and included in the IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 to replace IAS 17 lineitem Provisions.
Leases and has been endorsed by the EU.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2 As a result of 1, the identification of new POs and change in 2019 and will be adopted by the Group on 1st January 2019. methodology resulted in adjusting the value of financial and contract assets, but also in recognizing: IFRS 16 will primarily change lease accounting for lessees: lease agreements will give rise to the recognition of an asset Contract assets within line item Financial and contract assets : representing the right to use the leased item and a loan obligation the value of contract assets and liabilities is dependent in for future lease payables.
Lease costs will be recognized in the particular on the timing of operation and maintenance activities form of depreciation of the right to use asset and interest on the as well as major maintenance activities, for which revenue is lease liability.
Lessee accounting under IFRS 16 will be similar in recognized as costs are incurred.
many respects to existing IAS 17 accounting for finance leases, but Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from a different will be substantively different to existing accounting for operating revenue recognition in local GAAP in Togo and Cap des Biches.
leases where rental charges are currently recognized on a The changes incurred by the implementation of IFRS 15 triggered straight-line basis and no lease asset or related lease creditor is adjustment of historical deferred taxes recognized as a result.
3 The Maritsa power purchase agreement PPA was amended The impact of IFRS 16 on lessor accounting is less significant and in April 2016.
IFRS 15 requires recognizing the effect of such not expected to have a material impact for the Group.
amendments prospectively vs retroactively to the initial PPA date under the previous standard.
This change resulted in particular in deferring revenue recognition over time.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 125 The Group assessed the impact of the accounting changes that The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the associate is will arise under IFRS 16: the following changes to lessee accounting will have a material impact as follows: impaired.
If there is evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of Right-of-use assets will be recorded for all assets that are leased the investment in the associate and its carrying value and by the Group: currently no lease assets or related liabilities are recognizes this amount as a reduction to the amount of Share of included on the Groups consolidated statement of financial profit of associates in the consolidated statement of income.
Liabilities will be recorded for future lease payments in the Business combinations Groups consolidated statement of financial position for the The acquisition consideration is measured at fair value which is reasonably certain period of the lease, which may include the aggregate of the fair values of the assets transferred, the future lease periods for which the Group has extension options.
liabilities incurred or assumed and the equity interests in Currently liabilities are generally not recorded for future exchange for control.
The consideration transferred includes the operating lease payments, which are disclosed as commitments.
fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Any contingent consideration to be The amount of lease liabilities will not exactly equal the lease commitments reported on 31st December 2018, as they will be transferred by the Group is recognized at fair value at the discounted to present value and the treatment of termination acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the and extension options may differ.
contingent consideration are recognized in the consolidated Currently operating lease rentals are expensed on a straight-line statement of income.
Where the consideration transferred, basis over the lease term within operating expenses and these together with the non-controlling interest, exceeds the fair value of will be replaced by a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets the net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the and interest on lease liabilities: interest will typically be higher in excess is recorded as goodwill.
Acquisition related costs are the early stages of a lease and reduce over the term.
expensed as incurred and classified as Acquisition related items Operating lease cash flows are currently included within in the consolidated statement of income.
operating cash flows in the consolidated statement of cash flows: under IFRS 16 these will be recorded as cash flows from Goodwill is capitalized as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case of financing activities reflecting the repayment of lease liabilities borrowings and related interest.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation acquired.
The right-of-use assets and liabilities for future lease payments assessed as of 1st January 2019 amounts to $24.6 million.
The Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change depreciation of the right-of-use assets and the finance charges on of control the liabilities assessed for 2019 are estimated at $3.5 million and Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in a $1.6 million respectively.
The Group expects to apply the modified gain or loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions retrospective approach starting 1st January 2019. that is, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and 2.3.
Summary of significant accounting policies the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of Principles of consolidation the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
The consolidated financial statements include both the assets and Functional and presentation currency and currency translation liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the Group and its subsidiaries and the Groups share of the results and the Groups The assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are translated investments in associates.
into US dollars, the Groups presentation currency, at the year-end exchange rates.
The results of foreign undertakings are translated Inter-company transactions and balances between Group into US dollars at the relevant average rates of exchange for the companies are eliminated.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation of opening net assets, and the difference between average a Subsidiaries exchange rates and year-end exchange rates on the result for the Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant year are recognized directly in the currency translation reserve.
activities so as to effect the returns to the Group, generally through control over the financial and operating policies, are Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional accounted for as subsidiaries.
Interests acquired in subsidiaries currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from are consolidated from the date the Group acquires control.
the settlement of transactions and from the translation of monetary b Associates assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Where the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence recognized at period end exchange rates in the consolidated over entities, generally from a shareholding of between 20% and statement of income line which most appropriately reflects the 50% of the voting rights, they are accounted for as associates.
nature of the item or transaction.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements using theequity method of accounting.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 126 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The following table summarizes the main exchange rates used for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements of ContourGlobal: Closing rates Average rates Year ended Year ended 31st December 31st December Currency 2018 2017 2018 2017 EUR USD 1.1467 1.2005 1.1811 1.1299 BRL USD 0.2581 0.3024 0.2756 0.3134 BGN USD 0.5863 0.6138 0.6040 0.5774 Operating and reportable segments The Groups reporting segments reflect the operating segments which are based on the organizational structure and financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer, who represents the chief operating decision-maker CODM.
The Groups organizational structure reflects the different electricity generation methods, being Thermal and Renewables.
A third category, Corporate & Other, primarily reflects costs for certain centralized functions including executive oversight, corporate treasury and accounting, legal, compliance, human resources, IT, political risk insurance and facilities management and certain technical support costs that are not allocated to the segments for internal management reporting purposes.
The principal profit measure used by the CODM is Adjusted EBITDA as defined in note 4.1.
A segmented analysis of Adjusted EBITDA is accordingly provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements see note 4.1.
Revenue recognition IFRS 15, Revenues from contracts with customers, is effective for periods beginning 1st January 2018.
Under this standard, revenue recognition is based on the transfer of control, i. e. notion of control is used to determine when a good or service is transferred to the customer.
In accordance with this, the Group has adopted a single comprehensive model for the accounting for revenues from contracts with customers, using a five-step approach for revenue recognition: 1 identifying the contract: 2 identifying the performance obligations in the contract: 3 determining the transaction price: 4 allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract: and 5 recognizing revenue when the Group satisfies a performance obligation.
Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods or services provided in the normal course of business excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties such as sales taxes, goods and services taxes and value added taxes.
Revenue is recognized when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and these benefits can be measured reliably.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
The Group revenue is mainly generated from the following: i revenue from power sales: ii revenue from operating leases: iii revenue from financial assets concession and finance lease assets : and iv construction revenue from concession arrangements.
Certain of the Group power plants sell their output under Power Purchase Agreements PPAs and other long-term arrangements.
Under such arrangements it is usual for the Group to receive payment for the provision of electrical capacity or availability whether or not the offtaker requests the electrical output capacity payments and for the variable costs of production energy payments.
In such situations, revenue is recognized in respect of capacity payments as: a Service income in accordance with the contractual terms, to the e xtent that the capacity has been made available to the contracted offtaker during the period.
This income is recognized as part of revenue from power sales: b Financial return on the operating financial asset where the PP A is considered to be or to contain a finance lease or where the contract is considered to be a financial asset under interpretation IFRIC 12: Service Concession Arrangements.
Under finance lease arrangements, those payments which are not included within minimum lease payments are accounted for as service income outlined in a above.
Energy payments under PPAs are recognized in revenue in all cases as the contracted output is delivered.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Revenues in the comparative periods are recognized in accordance with IAS 18.
See note 2.1 for more details of the transition to IFRS15.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 127 Government grants Grants from the government are recognized where there is reasonable assurance that the conditions associated with the grants have been complied with and the grants will be received.
Acquisition related items Acquisition related items include pre-acquisition costs such as various professional fees and due diligence costs, earn-outs and other related incremental costs incurred as part of completed or contemplated acquisitions.
Finance income and finance costs Finance income primarily consists of interest income on funds invested.
Finance costs primarily comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the discount step up on financial and contract assets and provisions, interests and penalties that arise from late payments of suppliers or taxes, swap margin calls, bank charges, changes in fair value of the debt payable to non-controlling interests in our Bulgarian power plant, changes in the fair value of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and unrealized &realized foreign exchange gains and losses.
Intangible assets and goodwill Goodwill For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of units represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The reporting units which generally correspond to power plants or group of reporting units have been identified as its cash-generating units.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken at least annually.
Intangible assets Intangible assets include licenses and permits when specific rights and contracts are acquired.
Intangible assets separately acquired inthe normal course of business are recorded at historic cost, and intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date.
When the power plant achieves its commercial operations date, the related intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the life of the PPA, generally over 20 years excluding software.
Software is amortized over three years.
A different amortization method may be used if it better reflects the pattern of economic benefits derived from the asset over time.
Property, plant and equipment Initial recognition and subsequent measurement Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost, less depreciation, or at fair value if acquired in the context of a business combination.
Historical cost includes an initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located, when the entity has a present legal or constructive obligation to do so.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is carried at the lower of market value and the present value of the related minimum lease payments.
Costs relating to major inspections and overhauls are capitalized.
Minor replacements, repairs and maintenance, including planned outages to our power plants that do not improve the efficiency or extend the life of the respective asset, are expensed as incurred.
The Group capitalizes certain direct pre-construction costs associated with its power plant project development activities when it hasbeen determined that it is more likely than not that the opportunity will result in an operating asset.
Factors considered in this determination include i the availability of adequate funding, ii the likelihood that the Group will be awarded with the project or the barriers are not likely to prohibit closing the project, and iii there is an available market and the regulatory, environmental and infrastructure requirements are likely to be met.
Capitalized pre-construction costs include initial engineering, environmental and technical feasibility studies, legal costs, permitting and licensing and direct internal staff salary and travel costs, among others.
Pre-construction costs are charged to expense if a project is abandoned or if the conditions stated above are not met.
Construction work inprogress CWIP assets are transferred out of CWIP when construction is substantially completed and the power plant achieves its commercial operations date COD, at which point depreciation commences.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 128 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Depreciation Property, plant and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives: Useful lives as of 31st December 2017 and 2018 Generating plants and equipment Lignite, coal, gas, oil, biomass power plants 12 to 40 years Hydro plants and equipment 25 to 75 years Wind farms 16 to 25 years Tri and quad-generation combined heat power plants 15 years Solar plants 14 to 22 years Other property, plant and equipment 3 to 10 years The range of useful lives is due to the diversity of the assets in each category, which is partly due to acquired assets and from assets groupings.
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least annually and if expectations differ from previous estimates, the remaining useful lives are reassessed and adjustments are made.
The remaining useful lives are assessed when acquisitions are made by performing technical due diligence procedures.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that carrying values may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs of disposal market value and value in use determined using estimates of discounted future net cash flows of the asset or group of assets to which it belongs.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash inflows cash-generating units.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset, or assets.
Accounting for arrangements that contain a lease as lessee i Accounting for finance leases as lessee Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group holds substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance lease and such assets are capitalized at the commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The asset is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are recognized as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
ii Accounting for operating leases as lessee Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals are charged to the statement of income on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Accounting for arrangements that contain a lease as lessor Power purchase arrangements PPA and other long-term contracts may contain, or may be considered to contain, leases where the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset such as a power plant and the arrangement conveys to the customer the right to use that asset.
Such contracts may be identified as either operating leases or finance leases.
i Accounting for finance leases as lessor Where the Group determines that the contractual provisions of a long-term PPA contain, or are a lease and result in the offtaker assuming the principal risks and rewards of ownership of the power plant, the arrangement is a finance lease.
Accordingly the assets are not reflected as PP&E and the net investment in the lease, represented by the present value of the amounts due from the lessee is recorded within financial assets as a finance lease receivable.
The capacity payments as part of the leasing arrangement are apportioned between minimum lease payments comprising capital repayments relating to the plant and finance income and service income.
The finance income element is recognized as revenue, using a rate of return specific to the plant to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in each period.
Finance income and service income are recognized in each accounting period at the fair value of the Groups performance under the contract.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 129 ii Accounting for operating leases as lessor Where the Group determines that the contractual provisions of the long-term PPA contain, or are, a lease, and result in the Group retaining the principal risks and rewards of ownership of the power plant, the arrangement is an operating lease.
For operating leases, the power plant is, or continues to be, capitalized as property, plant and equipment and depreciated over its useful economic life.
Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement.
Concession arrangements The interpretation IFRIC 12 governs accounting for concession arrangements.
An arrangement within the scope of IFRIC 12 is one which involves a private sector entity known as an operator constructing infrastructure used to provide a public service, or upgrading it for example, by increasing its capacity and operating and maintaining that infrastructure for a specified period of time.
IFRIC 12 applies to public-to-private service concession arrangements if: a The grantor i. e. the public sector entity the offtaker controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and at what price, and b The grantor controls through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the term of the arrangement.
Infrastructure used in a public-to-private service concession arrangement for its entire useful life a whole of life asset is within the scope of IFRIC 12 if the conditions in a are met.
Under concession arrangements within the scope of IFRIC 12, which comply with the financial asset model requirements, the operator recognizes a financial asset, attracting income in consideration for the services it provides design, construction, etc.
to the extent that it has an unconditional contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor for the construction services: the grantor has little, if any, discretion to avoid payment, usually because the agreement is enforceable by law.
The Group has an unconditional right to receive cash if the grantor contractually guarantees to pay the Group a specified or determinable amounts or b the shortfall, if any, between amounts received from users of the public service and specified or determinable amounts, even if payment is contingent on the Group ensuring that the infrastructure meets specified quality or efficiency requirements.
This model is based on input assumptions such as budgets and cash flow forecasts.
Any change in these assumptions may have a material impact on the measurement of the recoverable amount and could result in reducing the value of the asset.
Such financial assets are recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position in an amount corresponding to the fair value of the infrastructure on first recognition and subsequently at amortized cost.
The receivable is settled by means of the grantors payments being received.
The financial income calculated on the basis of the effective interest rate, equivalent to the projects internal rate of return, is reflected within the Revenue from concession and finance lease assets line in the note 4.2 Revenue to the consolidated financial statements.
Cash outflows relating to the acquisition of financial assets under concession agreements are presented as part of cash flow from investing activities.
Net cash inflows generated by the financial assets operations are presented as part of cash flow from operating activities.
Under arrangements within the scope of IFRIC 12 which complies with the intangible asset model requirements, the operator recognizes an intangible asset in accordance with IAS 38 to the extent that it has a right to charge users of the public service.
Such intangible asset is recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost on first recognition and subsequently measured over its useful economic life at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment losses.
Net cash inflows generated by the intangible assets operations are presented as part of cash flow from operating activities.
Financial assets Classification of financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through statement of income and loans and receivables.
a Financial assets at fair value through statement of income Financial assets have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling, or being settled, in the short term.
Financial assets at fair value through statement of income are Cash and cash equivalents which includes restricted cash and derivatives held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except those that mature greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period, which are classified in non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise Trade and other receivables and Financial and contract assets in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 130 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued As part of its overall foreign exchange and interest rate risk 2.
Summary of significant accounting management policy, the Group enters into various hedging policiescontinued transactions involving derivative instruments.
Recognition and measurement Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a recognized on trade date that is, the date on which the Group non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the commits to purchase or sell the asset.
hedged item is more than 12 months: it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its less than 12 months.
fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through income, transaction costs that are directly attributable to The Group designates certain derivatives as either: the acquisition of the financial asset.
Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through income are expensed in the a Hedges of fair value of recognized assets or liabilities fair consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive value hedges : income.
Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have In connection with the Groups hedging policy, the Group uses been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all forward exchange contracts for currency risk management as well the risks and rewards of ownership.
a Financial assets at fair value through statement of income b Hedges of a particular risk associated with the cash flows of Gains or losses on financial assets at fair value through statement recognized assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast of income are recognized in the consolidated statement income transactions cash flow hedges.
These are presented within finance income and finance costs respectively.
The Group uses interest rate swap contracts for interest rate risk management in order to hedge certain forecasted transactions b Loans and receivable and to manage its anticipated cash payments under its variable These financial assets are held for collection of contractual cash rate financing by converting a portion of its variable rate financing flows, where those cash flows represent solely payments of to a fixed rate basis through the use of interest rate swap principal and interest, and are measured at amortized cost.
agreements, and a cross currency swap contract for both currency Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance and interest rate risk management.
income using the effective interest rate method.
Any gain or loss arising on fide-recognition is recognized directly in profit or loss Items qualifying as hedges and presented in finance income.
The Group formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management Impairment objectives and strategies for undertaking hedge transactions The Group assesses, on a forward-looking basis, the expected andthe method used to assess hedge effectiveness.
Hedging credit losses associated with its financial assets carried at transactions are expected to be highly effective in achieving amortized cost.
The impairment methodology applied depends offsetting changes in cash flows and are regularly assessed to onwhether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they are implemented.
Allowances for expected credit losses are made based on the risk of non-payment taking into account ageing, previous experience, When derivative instruments qualify as hedges for accounting economic conditions and forward looking data.
Such allowances purposes, as defined in IFRS 9 Financial instruments, they are are measured as either 12-months expected credit losses or accounted for as follows: lifetime expected credit losses depending on changes in the credit quality of-the counterparty.
a Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting While the financial assets of the Company are subject to the The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives impairment requirements of IFRS 9, the identified impairment loss that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is was immaterial.
recognized in the cash flow hedge reserve within equity and through the consolidated statement of other comprehensive Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities income OCI.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion Derivative instruments are measured at fair value upon initial is recognized immediately within the consolidated statement of recognition in the consolidated statement of financial position income.
Amounts recognized directly in OCI are reclassified to andsubsequently are re-measured to their fair value at the end the consolidated statement of income when the hedged ofeach reporting period.
The accounting for subsequent changes transaction affects the consolidated statement of income.
in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as If a forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer ahedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being expected to occur, amounts previously recognized in OCI are hedged.
reclassified to the consolidated statement of income as finance income or finance costs.
Derivative instruments are presented according to their maturity date, regardless of whether they qualify for hedge accounting If a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised under IFRS 9 hedging instruments versus trading instruments.
without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is Derivatives are classified as a separate line item in the revoked, amounts previously recognized in OCI remain in consolidated statement of financial position.
accumulated OCI until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs, at which point they are reclassified to the consolidated statement of income.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 131 b Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Financial liabilities Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
a Borrowings Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does Borrowings are recognized initially at fair value of amounts not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized immediately in received, net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently profit or loss and are included in finance income finance costs.
measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs In connection with the Groups hedging policy, the Group uses and the redemption value is recognized in the consolidated forward exchange contracts for currency risk management as well statement of income over the period of the borrowings using as foreign exchange options, interest rate swap contracts for theeffective interest method.
interest rate risk management in order to hedge certain forecasted transactions and to manage its anticipated cash Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the payments under its variable rate financing by converting a portion obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or of its variable rate financing to a fixed rate basis through the use of expired.
interest rate swap agreements, and a cross currency swap contract for both currency and interest rate risk management.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at Inventories least 12 months after the reporting period.
Inventories consist primarily of power generating plant fuel and non-critical spare parts that are held by the Group for its own use.
b Trade and other payables Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, using a first-in, first-out Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially method, and net realizable value, which is the estimated selling recognized at fair value, which is usually the invoiced amount, and price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable selling subsequently carried at amortized cost using the effective interest expenses.
Emission quotas Trade and other payables are presented as current liabilities unless Some companies of the Group emit CO and have as a result payment is not due within 12 months after the reporting period.
2 obligations to buy emission quotas on the basis of local legislation.
Unless otherwise stated, carrying value approximates to fair value The emissions made by the Company emitting CO which are in 2 excess of any allocated quotas are purchased at free market price for all financial liabilities.
and shown as inventories before their effective use.
If emissions are higher than allocated quotas, the Company recognizes an Provisions expense and respective liability for those emissions.
At the end of Provisions principally relate to decommissioning, maintenance, each reporting period, CO quotas that remain available to the environmental, tax and legal obligations and which are recognized 2 Company are revalued at the lower of costs or prevailing market when there is a present obligation as a result of past events: it is value.
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognized initially at fair value, which is Provisions are re-measured at each statement of financial position usually the invoiced amount, and subsequently carried at date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Any change amortized cost using the effective interest method, less provision in present value of the estimated expenditure attributable to for impairment.
Details about the Groups impairment policies on changes in the estimates of the cash flow or the current estimate financial assets and the calculation of the provision for impairment of the discount rate used are reflected as an adjustment to the are provided on page 130. provision.
The increase in the provisions due to passage of time are recognized as finance costs in the consolidated statement Cash and cash equivalents ofincome.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions and short-term Current and deferred income tax investments, all of which are readily convertible to cash and are The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an tax.
Tax is recognized in the consolidated statement of income, original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other included within current borrowings.
Cash and cash equivalents comprehensive income.
In this case, the tax is also recognized in also includes cash deposited on accounts to cover for short-term other comprehensive income.
debt service of certain project financings and which can be drawn for short-term related needs.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial Maintenance reserves held for the purpose of covering long-term position date in the countries where the Group and its subsidiaries major maintenance and long-term deposits kept as collateral to operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically cover decommissioning obligations are excluded from cash and evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations cash equivalents and included in non-current assets.
in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts Share capital and share premium expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
The premium received on the issue of shares in excess of the nominal value of shares is credited to the share premium account and included within shareholders equity.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 132 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued In assessing whether the PPA contains a service concession, the 2.
Summary of significant accounting Group considers whether the arrangement i bears a public policiescontinued service obligation: ii has prices that are regulated by the offtaker: Deferred income tax is recognized on temporary differences and iii the residual interest is transferred to the offtaker at an arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their agreed value.
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise All other PPAs are determined to be service contracts.
from the initial recognition of goodwill: deferred income tax is not recognized if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability Concession arrangements For those agreements which are in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time determined to be a concession arrangement, there are of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or judgements as to whether the infrastructure should be accounted loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws for as an intangible asset or a financial asset depending on the that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement nature of the payment entitlements established in the agreement.
of financial position date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred Concession arrangements determined to be a financial asset income tax liability is settled.
The Group recognizes a financial asset when demand risk is assumed by the grantor, to the extent that the contracted Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent that concession holder has an unconditional right to receive payments it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against for the asset.
The asset is recognized at the fair value of the which the temporary differences can be utilized.
The fair value is based on input assumptions such as budgets and cash flow forecasts, future costs Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there include maintenance costs which impact the overall calculation of isa legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against the estimated margin of the project.
The inputs include in current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets particular the budget for fixed and variable costs.
Any change in and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation these assumptions may have a material impact on the authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable measurement of the recoverable amount and could result in entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a reducing the value of the asset.
The financial asset is netbasis.
subsequently recorded at amortized cost calculated according to the effective interest rate method.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments managing the asset is recorded as revenue in each period.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in line with the Groups accounting policies set out in note 2.3 involves Leases For those arrangements determined to be or to contain the use of judgment and or estimation.
These judgments and leases, further judgment is required to determine whether the estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the arrangement is finance or operating lease.
This assessment relevant facts and circumstances, giving consideration to previous requires an evaluation of where the substantial risks and rewards experience, and are regularly reviewed and revised as necessary.
of ownership reside, for example due to the existence of a bargain Actual results may differ from the amounts included in the purchase option that would allow the offtaker to buy the asset at consolidated financial statements.
The estimates and judgments the end of the arrangement for a minimal price.
that have the most significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are presented below.
Assessing property, plant and equipment for impairment triggers Critical accounting judgements The Groups property, plant and equipment are reviewed for Accounting for long-term power purchase agreements and indications of impairment an impairment trigger.
Judgement is related revenue recognition applied in determining whether an impairment trigger has When power plants sell their output under long-term power occurred, based on both internal and external sources.
External purchase agreements PPA, it is usual for the operator of the sources may include: market value declines, negative changes in power plant to receive payment known as a capacity payment for technology, markets, economy, or laws.
Internal sources may the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker include: obsolescence or physical damage, or worse economic requests electrical output.
There is a degree of judgement as to performance than expected, including from adverse weather whether a long-term contract to sell electrical capacity constitutes conditions for renewable plants.
In the current year, impairment a service concession arrangement, a form of lease, or a service triggers were noted for Brazilian wind power plants see note 4.11. contract.
This determination is made at the inception of the PPA, and is not required to be revisited in subsequent periods under Provisions for claims IFRS, unless the agreement is renegotiated.
The Group receives legal or contractual claims against it from time to time, in the normal course of business.
Judgments are made as Given that the fulfilment of the PPAs is dependent on the use of a to the potential likelihood of any claim succeeding when making specified asset, the key judgement in determining if the PPA aprovision or disclosing a contingent liability.
The timeframe for contains a lease is the assessment of whether the PPA conveys a resolving legal or contractual claims may be judgemental, as is right for the offtaker to use the assets.
In practice, the key criteria in theamount of possible outflow of economic benefits.
assessing if that right exists is the judgement whether there is only a remote possibility that parties other than the offtaker will take more than an insignificant amount of the power output and the price the offtaker will pay is neither fixed nor at market price rates.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 133 Critical accounting estimates Site decommissioning, maintenance and environmental provisions Service concession arrangements are recognized based on managements assessment of future The Group has service concession arrangements for Senegal, costs which would need to be incurred in accordance with Rwanda, Togo and Brazil.
In order to calculate the gross profit existing legislation or contractual obligations to restore the sites margin that is recognized in relation to operation, maintenance ormake good any environmental damage.
These costs are and major maintenance activities during the concession period, measured at the present value of the future expenditures the Group makes an estimate of the future costs of these activities expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax that will be incurred over the remaining contract life.
Whilst the discount rate which reflects current market assessments of the level and related costs of such activities is generally predictable time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
with a reasonable degree of accuracy, should significant Management apply judgement in the estimation of future cash unanticipated costs be incurred, this would reduce gross profit flows to settle these obligations and in the estimation of an margins for these activities over the future life of the contract.
The pre-tax discount rate used varies from 2.0% to 11.0%.
If this was to decrease by 1% it would Estimation of useful lives of property, plant and equipment increase decommissioning, environmental and maintenance Property, plant and equipment represents a significant proportion provisions by $3.5 million and $3.2 million for the years ended of the asset base of the Group, primarily due to power plants 31stDecember 2018 and 31st December 2017. owned, being 63.2% 2017: 54.0% of the Groups total assets.
Estimates and assumptions made to determine their carrying value Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a and related depreciation are significant to the Groups financial business combination position and performance.
The annual depreciation charge is Business combinations are recorded in accordance with IFRS 3 determined after estimating an assets expected useful life and its using the acquisition method.
Under this method, the identifiable residual value at the end of its life.
The useful lives and residual assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognized at their values of the Groups assets are determined by management fair value at the acquisition date.
atthe time the asset is acquired and reviewed annually for appropriateness.
The Group derives useful economic lives Therefore, through a number of different approaches and with the basedon experience of similar assets, which may exceed the assistance of external independent valuation experts for period covered by contracted power purchase agreements.
acquisitions as considered appropriate by management, the Group identifies what it believes is the fair value of the assets Recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
These Where an impairment trigger has been identified see critical valuations involve the use of judgement and include a number of accounting judgements section, the Group makes significant estimates.
Judgement is exercised in identifying the most estimates in its impairment evaluations of long-lived assets.
The appropriate valuation approach which is then used to determine determination of the recoverable amount is typically the most the allocation of fair value.
The Group typically uses one of the judgmental part of an impairment evaluation.
The recoverable cost approach, the income approach and the market approach.
amount is the higher of i an assets fair value less costs of disposal market value, and ii value in use determined using Each of these valuation approaches involve the use of estimates in a estimates of discounted future net cash flows DCF of the asset number of areas, including the determination of cash flow projections or group of assets to which it belongs.
and related discount rates, industry indices, market prices regarding replacement cost and comparable market transactions.
While the The Group generally uses value in use to derive the recoverable Group believes that the estimates and assumptions underlying the amount of property, plant and equipment.
Management applies valuation methodologies are reasonable, different assumptions could considerable judgment in selecting several input assumptions in result in different fair values.
its DCF models, including discount rates and capacity availability factors.
These assumptions are consistent with the Groups Taxes internal budgets and forecasts for such valuations.
Examples of Significant judgment is sometimes required in determining the the input assumptions that budgets and cash flow forecasts are accrual for income taxes as there are many transactions and sensitive to include macroeconomic factors such as growth rates, calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain inflation, exchange rates, and, in the case of renewables plants, during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognizes environmental factors such as wind, solar and water resource liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be forecast.
Any changes in these assumptions may have a material due.
These areas include, but are not limited to, the deductibility impact on the measurement of the recoverable amount and could of interest on certain borrowings used to finance acquisitions result in impairing the tested assets.
See note 4.11 for further made by the Group and the price at which goods and services are information on the impairment tests performed, and relevant transferred between Group companies.
Where the final tax sensitivity analysis.
outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred Provisions income tax provisions, results of operations and possibly cash The Group makes provisions when an obligation exists, resulting flows in the year in which such determination is made.
from a past event and it is probable that cash will be paid to settle it, but the exact amount of cash required can only be estimated on Deferred tax assets are recognized on tax loss carry-forwards a reliable basis.
Major provisions are detailed in note 4.25.
The when it is probable that taxable profit will be available against main estimates relate to site decommissioning and maintenance which the tax loss carry-forwards can be utilized.
Estimates of costs, and environmental remediation for various sites owned.
taxable profits and utilizations of tax loss carry-forwards are prepared on the basis of profit and loss forecasts as included in the medium-term business plan and, if necessary, on the basis of additional forecasts.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 134 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Major events and changes in the scope of consolidation 3.1.
2018 transactions Sale of Ukrainian assets On 26th February 2018, the Group sold 100% of its stake in Ukrainian power plant Kramatorsk representing a total of 120 MW for a cash amount of $3.0 million see note 4.11.
This asset was presented as an asset held for sale as of 31st December 2017.
The sale has no material impact on the full year 2018 financial statements.
Additional solar portfolio acquisition On 23rd December 2017, the Group signed the acquisition of a 23 MW Renewable portfolio consisting of 10 photovoltaic plants in Italy 15 MW, one photovoltaic plant in Romania 7 MW and two biogas plants in Italy 2 MW.
The transaction closed on 22nd March 2018 for the Italian plants.
The total cash consideration amounts to 22.6 million $27.7 million including 17.0 million $20.8 million for the acquisition of 100% of the shares and 5.6 million $6.9 million for the repayment of shareholders loans.
The transaction closed on 26th June 2018 for the Romania plant.
The total cash consideration amounts to 7.7 million $9.0 million including 0.3 million $0.4 million for the acquisition of 100% of the shares and 7.4 million $8.6 million for the repayment of shareholders loans.
On a consolidated basis, had these acquisitions taken place as of 1st January 2018, the Group would have recognized 2018 consolidated revenue of $1,256.1 million and consolidated net profit of $14.5 million.
Determination of fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at acquisition date of: Solar In $ millions portfolio Intangible assets 2.6 Property, plant and equipment 53.9 Other assets 13.8 Cash and cash equivalents 6.0 Total assets 76.2 Borrowings 27.4 Other liabilities 27.6 Total liabilities 55.0 Total net identifiable assets 21.2 Net purchase consideration 21.2 Goodwill These acquisitions contributed to consolidated revenue and net result for the year respectively of $8.4 million and $0.3 million.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 135 Acquisition of Spanish CSP portfolio On 27th February 2018, the Group signed the acquisition of Acciona Energias 250 MW portfolio of five 50 MW Concentrating Solar Power plants CSP in South-West Spain.
The total enterprise value amounts to 962.8 million, including an amount payable to Acciona Energa of approximately 806.8 million $956.6 million and existing net debt including adjustment for working capital of 156.0 million $184.4 million.
The acquisition agreement also includes earn-out payments to Acciona Energa of up to 27 million $32million.
As of 31st December 2018 a 9.4 million $10.8 million earn-out was recognized.
The acquisition combines the Groups solar and Spanish thermal operating expertise into a sizable portfolio of assets enabling synergies with existing European operations.
The acquisition closed on 10th May 2018.
On a consolidated basis, had this acquisition taken place as of 1st January 2018, the Group would have recognized 2018 consolidated revenue of $1,316.8 million and consolidated net profit of $16.0 million.
Determination of fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at acquisition date of: Spanish CSP In $ millions portfolio Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment 1,202.8 Other assets 89.2 Cash and cash equivalents 76.1 Total assets 1,368.1 Borrowings 186.4 Other liabilities 225.2 Total liabilities 411.5 Total net identifiable assets 956.6 Net purchase consideration 956.6 Goodwill The acquisition contributed to consolidated revenue and net loss for the year respectively of $112.8 million and $6.6 million.
Sale of non-controlling interests which did not result in a change of control Solar Italy and Slovakia portfolio The Group completed in October 2018 the sale of 49% minority interest of the Italian and Slovakian portfolio with Credit Suisse Energy Infrastructure Partners for an amount of 63.4 million $73.1 million, of which 3.3 million $3.8 million consists of working capital adjustments.
Cash amount received at closing amounted to 60.1 million $69.3 million, of which 42.4 million $48.9 million was forthe sale of shares and 17.7 million $20.4 million was for the sale of existing shareholder loans.
In line with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, this transaction is considered as an equity transaction as it does not result in a loss of control.
Therefore, the net cash gain on sale of these assets, which represented an amount of 18.2 million or $20.9 million, was recorded as an increase in the equity attributable to owners of the parent.
It corresponds to the difference between the consideration received for the sale of shares 42.4 million or $48.9 million and of the carrying amount of non-controlling interest sold 24.2 million or $28.0 million.
Spanish CSP portfolio The Group signed in December 2018 an agreement to sell a 49% minority interest of the Spanish CSP portfolio with Credit Suisse Energy Infrastructure Partners for an amount of 134 million.
The sale is expected to close in the first half of 2019 and is not expected toresult in a change of control.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 136 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Major events and changes in the scope of consolidation continued 3.2.
2017 transactions Acquisition of a Thermal and a Renewable portfolio in Brazil On 17th March 2017, the Group closed the acquisition of 80% of a 206 MW Brazilian portfolio.
The portfolio consists of seven hydroelectric plants totaling 130 MW in the states of Bahia, Gois and Rio fide Janeiro and four high-efficiency cogeneration facilities Solutions totaling 76 MW in Paran, Rio fide Janeiro and So Paulo.
The total consideration amounts to BRL 576.8 million or $182.4 million including certain price adjustments.
A total of BRL 547.3 million or $173.1 million was paid in cash at the closing date.
On a consolidated and annualized basis, had this acquisition taken place as of 1st January 2017, the Group would have recognized 2017 consolidated revenue of $1,037.9 million and consolidated net profit of $18.5 million.
Determination of fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at acquisition date: Total Brazilian Solutions portfolio In $ millions Hydro Brazil Brazil acquired Intangible assets 28.4 28.4 160.0 38.1 198.1 Property, plant and equipment Other assets 17.9 10.8 28.7 17.9 15.3 33.2 Cash and cash equivalents Total assets 224.2 64.2 288.4 61.1 61.1 Borrowings Other liabilities 19.6 11.5 31.1 80.7 11.5 92.2 Total liabilities Total net identifiable assets 143.5 52.7 196.2 129.7 52.7 182.4 Total net identifiable assets % acquired Net purchase consideration 129.7 52.7 182.4 Goodwill The acquisition contributed to 2017 consolidated revenue and net result for respectively $57.8 million and $18.9 million.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 137 Additional solar portfolio acquisition In December 2017, the Group closed the acquisition of 100% of a 19.1 MW operational solar photovoltaic plants in Italy from ErgyCapital S. p. A.
The plants, located in the regions of Puglia, Piemonte, Lazio and Campania, are in close proximity to ContourGlobals existing Italian solar portfolio and benefit from approximately 12 years of Feed-in-Tariff.
The total consideration amounts to 9.6 million or$11.4million corresponding to acquisition of shares.
Subsequent to the closing the Group refinanced the portfolio and issued new facilities for a total of 55.8 million or $66.4 million, ofwhich 38.8 million or $46.2 million was drawn in 2017, at an interest rate of Euribor 6M 2.35% per annum, 70% of which isswapped at 0.653% 2.35% per annum, maturing on 30th June 2028.
On a consolidated and annualized basis, had this acquisition taken place as of 1st January 2017, the Group would have recognized 2017 consolidated revenue of $1,032.9 million and consolidated net profit of $14.3 million.
Preliminary determination of fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at acquisition date: Solar In $ millions portfolio Intangible assets 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 75.7 Other assets 11.4 Cash and cash equivalents 3.6 Total assets 90.7 Borrowings 70.6 Other liabilities 8.8 Total liabilities 79.4 Total net identifiable assets 11.4 Net purchase consideration 11.4 Goodwill The acquisition contributed to 2017 consolidated revenue and net result for respectively $0.5 million and $0.6 million.
Acquisition of non-controlling interests which did not result in a change of control The Group also completed in 2017 the acquisition of 19.7% minority interests in ContourGlobal Hydro Cascade CJSC Vorotan project for a consideration of $9.8 million.
After this transaction, the Group owns 100% of the Vorotan project.
This transaction did not result in a change of control and have therefore been accounted for within shareholders equity as transactions with owners without change of control acting in their capacity of owners.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 138 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4.1.
Segment reporting The Groups reportable segments are the operating segments overseen by distinct segment managers responsible for their performance with no aggregation of operating segments.
Thermal Energy for power generating plants operating from coal, lignite, natural gas, fuel oil and diesel.
Thermal plants include Maritsa, Arrubal, Togo, Kramatorsk sold in February 2018, Cap des Biches, KivuWatt, Energies Antilles, Energies Saint-Martin, Bonaire and our equity investees primarily Termoemcali and Sochagota.
Our Thermal segment also includes plants which provide electricity and certain other services to beverage bottling companies.
Renewable Energy for power generating plants operating from renewable resources such as wind, solar and hydro in Europe and South America.
Renewables plants include Asa Branca, Chapada I, II, III, Inka, Vorotan, Austria Portfolio 1 & 2, Spanish Concentrated Solar Power and our other European and Brazilian plants.
The Corporate & Other category primarily reflects costs for certain centralized functions including executive oversight, corporate treasury and accounting, legal, compliance, human resources, IT, political risk insurance and facilities management and certain technical support costs that are not allocated to the segments for internal management reporting purposes.
The CODM assesses the performance of the operating segments based on Adjusted EBITDA which is defined as profit for the period from continuing operations before income taxes, net finance costs, depreciation and amortization, acquisition related expenses and specific items which have been identified and adjusted by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an event or transaction is specific, management considers quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
The Group also believes Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors because it is frequently used by security analysts, investors, ratings agencies and other interested parties to evaluate other companies in our industry and to measure the ability of companies to service their debt.
The CODM does not review nor is presented a segment measure of total assets and total liabilities.
All revenue is derived from external customers.
Geographical information The Group also presents revenue in each of the geographical areas in which it operates as follows: Europe including our operations in Austria, Armenia, Northern Ireland, Italy, Romania, Poland, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Spain and Ukraine South America including Brazil, Peru and Colombia and Caribbean Islands including Dutch Antilles and French Territory Africa including Nigeria, Togo, Senegal and Rwanda.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 139 Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Revenue Thermal Energy 850.1 730.2 Renewable Energy 402.9 292.5 Total revenue 1,253.0 1,022.7 Adjusted EBITDA Thermal Energy 327.1 332.1 Renewable Energy 309.4 211.1 1 Corporate & Other 26.4 29.9 Total adjusted EBITDA 610.1 513.2 Reconciliation to profit before income tax Depreciation and Amortization note 4.3 239.3 185.6 Finance costs net note 4.7 236.6 220.7 2 Share of adjusted EBITDA in associates 21.2 21.6 Share of profit in associates note 4.13 2.9 5.0 Acquisition related items note 4.5 19.6 9.5 3 Costs related to CG plc IPO note 4.6 0.4 12.7 4 Cash gain on sale of minority interest in assets 20.9 5 Restructuring costs 6.7 6 Private incentive plan 4.1 7 Other 36.3 27.5 Profit before income tax 27.8 40.6 1 Includes corporate costs of $26.9 million 31st December 2017: $29.7 million and other income for $0.5 million 31st December 2017: costs of $0.2 million.
Corporate costs corresponds to selling, general and administrative expenses before depreciation and amortization 31st December 2018: $1.4 million, 31stDecember2017: $2.2 million.
2 Corresponds to our share of Adjusted EBITDA of plants accounted for under the equity method Sochagota, Termoemcali and Productora fide Energa fide Boyac which are reviewed by our CODM as part of our Thermal Energy segment.
3 The Group successfully completed the Initial Public Offering in the United Kingdom of ContourGlobal plc.
Costs associated with this project were separately analyzed by our CODM.
4 Represents the cash gain on the divestment of 49% stake of our Italian and Slovakian solar portfolio.
5 Represents redundancy and staff-related restructuring costs.
6 Represents the private incentive plan as described in note 4.26 share-based compensation plan.
7 Mainly reflects the non-cash impact of finance lease and financial concession payments.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 140 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Cash outflows on capital expenditure Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Thermal Energy 31.2 28.6 49.9 29.8 Renewable Energy Total capital expenditure 81.1 58.4 Geographical information The geographical analysis of revenue, based on the country of origin in which the Groups operations are located, and Adjusted EBITDA is as follows: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 1 Europe 864.3 627.9 2 250.0 254.4 South America and Caribbean Africa 138.7 140.3 1,253.0 1,022.7 Total revenue 1 Revenue generated in 2018 in Bulgaria and Spain amounted to $383.0 million and $333.8 million respectively 31st December 2017: $298.2 million and $178.7million respectively.
2 Revenue generated in 2018 in Brazil amounted to $163.4 million 31st December 2017: $180.5 million.
Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Europe 374.3 268.1 South America and Caribbean 180.8 196.9 Africa 81.4 78.2 Corporate & Other 26.4 29.9 Total adjusted EBITDA 610.1 513.2 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 141 4.2.
Revenue Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Revenue from power sales 965.2 757.3 Revenue from operating leases 104.0 96.8 Revenue from concession and finance lease assets 60.5 89.9 1 Other revenue 123.3 78.8 Total revenue 1,253.0 1,022.7 1 Other revenue primarily relates to environmental, operational and maintenance services rendered to offtakers in our Bulgaria, Togo, Rwanda and Senegal power plants.
Other revenue increased mainly as a result of the adoption of IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers.
Some of our main plants are operating under specific accounting principles: Our Togo, Rwanda KivuWatt and Senegal Cap des Biches plants are operating pursuant to concession agreements that are under the scope of IFRIC 12.
Our Energies Saint Martin and Bonaire plants are operating pursuant to power purchase agreements that have the characteristics of afinance lease.
Our Vorotan plant in Armenia is operating pursuant to a power purchase agreement that has the characteristics of an operating lease.
The Group has one customer contributing more than 10% of Groups revenue.
Expenses by nature Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 244.9 234.0 Fuel costs Depreciation, amortization and impairment 239.3 185.6 1 77.8 67.0 Operation and maintenance costs Employee costs 76.1 67.5 2 138.9 47.1 Emission allowance utilized Professional fees 19.6 9.0 64.9 48.2 Purchased power Insurance costs 20.9 18.5 3 Other expenses 79.4 71.3 Total cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses 961.8 748.2 1 Operation and maintenance costs include ongoing costs associated with the operation and maintenance of all plants.
2 Emission allowances utilized corresponds mainly to the costs of CO quotas in Maritsa which are passed through to its offtaker as well as changes in fair value of 2 CO quotas in the period.
2 3 Other expenses include operating consumables and supply costs of $15.8 million 2017: $14.0 million and facility costs of $16.5 million 2017: $14.6 million.
Facility costs include operating leases expenses of $4.1 million 2017: $3.5 million.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 142 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.4.
Employee costs and numbers Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 57.8 52.4 Social security costs 12.0 10.7 Share-based payments 0.7 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs 0.8 0.8 Other 4.9 3.5 Total employee costs before private incentive plan 76.1 67.5 1 Private incentive plan 4.1 Total employee costs 80.2 67.5 Annual average number of full-time equivalent employees 1,472 1,873 Thermal 930 1,441 Renewable 341 265 Corporate 201 167 1 See note 4.26 Share-based compensation plans for a description of the private incentive plan.
The decrease in annual average number of full-time equivalent employees is related to the sale of our Ukrainian assets in February 2018.
Acquisition related items Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 1 Acquisition costs 19.6 9.5 Acquisition related items 19.6 9.5 1 Acquisition costs include notably pre-acquisition costs such as due diligence costs and professional fees, earn-outs and other related incremental costs incurred as part of completed acquisitions or contemplated acquisitions.
In 2018, costs incurred primarily related to completed acquisition in Spain and Italy or contemplated acquisition in Mexico.
In 2017, costs incurred primarily related to completed acquisitions in Brazil and Italy, and contemplated acquisition projects in Spain, Peru, Mexico, Austria and Italy.
Other expenses net Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 1 Costs related to CG plc IPO 0.4 12.7 Other income expenses net 0.4 12.7 1 Represents costs recognized in the consolidated statement of income resulting from the Initial Public Offering IPO in the United Kingdom of ContourGlobal plc in November 2017.
In 2017, an additional $19.9 million of IPO costs were recognized as a deduction of share premium.
Also in 2017, cash outflows of $19.2million related to these costs are disclosed in the other financing activities line of the consolidated statement of cash-flows.
Finance costs net Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Finance income 10.6 9.8 1 Net change in fair value of derivatives 11.4 13.5 Net realized foreign exchange differences 1.4 38.0 2 Net unrealized foreign exchange differences 4.3 7.0 Realized and unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses and change in fair value of derivatives 8.5 44.5 Interest expenses on borrowings 192.4 176.3 3 Finance charges related to corporate bond refinancing 21.9 4 Other 41.4 9.6 Finance costs 255.7 186.0 Finance costs net 236.6 220.7 1 Change in fair value of derivatives relates primarily to interest rate swaps and interest rate options.
2 Unrealized foreign exchange differences primarily relate to loans in subsidiaries that have a functional currency different to the currency in which the loans are denominated.
3 Fees in conjunction with the refinancing of our initial 750 million bond in July 2018.
4 Other mainly includes costs associated with other financing, fair valuation of debt to non-controlling interests, the unwinding effect of certain liabilities as well as income and expenses related to interests and penalties for late payments.
The movement during the year is mainly due to the loss on fair value on debt to non-controlling interest and increased amortization of deferred financing costs due to new borrowings in Brazil and borrowings acquired in our Spanish CSP portfolio.
Income tax expense and deferred income tax Income tax expense Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Current tax expense 34.6 27.7 Deferred tax expense benefit 17.1 0.6 Income tax expense 17.4 27.1 The main jurisdictions contributing to the income tax expense for the year ending 31st December 2018 are i Bulgaria, ii Brazil and iii Spain.
The tax on the Groups profit before income tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise from applying the statutory tax rate of the parent company applicable to the results of the consolidated entities as follows: Effective tax rate reconciliation Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Profit before income tax 27.8 40.6 Profit before income tax at statutory tax rate 5.3 7.8 1 Statutory tax rate UK 19.0% 19.25% Tax effects of: Differences between statutory tax rate and foreign statutory tax rates 9.8 5.7 2 Changes in unrecognized deferred tax assets 17.4 40.1 Reduced rate and specific taxation regime 6.1 6.6 Change in tax laws and rates 0.7 3 Impact of foreign currencies on deferred tax basis 0.3 1.6 Permanent differences and other items 10.3 7.6 Income tax expense 17.4 27.1 Effective rate of income tax 62.6% 66.7% 1 Deferred taxes have been measured using tax rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
2 Mainly relates to tax losses in Luxembourg and Brazil where deferred tax assets are not recognized.
3 Relates to entities which have a functional currency different from their local currency.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 144 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Net deferred tax movement The gross movements of net deferred income tax assets liabilities were as follows: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Net deferred tax assets liabilities as of 1st January 23.7 21.2 Effects of change in accounting standards IFRS 15 13.6 Net deferred tax assets liabilities as of 1st January restated 10.1 21.2 Statement of income 17.1 0.6 Deferred tax recognized directly in other comprehensive income 1.7 0.7 Acquisitions 120.9 1.4 Currency translation differences and other 3.4 2.4 Net deferred tax assets liabilities as of 31st December 112.2 23.7 Including net deferred tax assets balance of: 51.6 41.8 Deferred tax liabilities balance of: 163.8 65.5 Analysis of the net deferred tax position recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position The net deferred tax positions and their movement can be broken down as follows: Derivative Long-term financial 1 In $ millions Tax losses assets instruments Other Total As of 1st January 2017 16.4 43.4 8.2 2.4 21.2 Statement of income 0.3 6.4 0.3 7.0 0.6 Other comprehensive income 0.7 0.7 Acquisitions 1.5 5.2 0.4 1.8 1.4 Currency translations and other 1.4 4.0 0.7 0.9 2.4 As of 31st December 2017 19.7 58.9 8.3 7.2 23.7 Effect of changes in accounting standards IFRS 15 18.9 5.3 13.6 As of 1st January 2018 restated 19.7 40.0 8.3 1.9 10.1 Statement of income 11.3 14.4 1.1 15.1 17.1 Other comprehensive income 1.7 1.7 Acquisitions 8.7 143.8 7.8 6.4 120.9 Currency translations and other 0.5 5.8 1.0 0.9 3.4 As of 31st December 2018 16.6 163.6 12.3 22.5 112.2 1 Other mainly relates to deferred interest, foreign currency differences and tax credits.
Analysis of the deferred tax position unrecognized in the consolidated statement of financial position Unrecognized deferred tax assets amount to $190.9 million as of 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: $187.7 million and can be broken down as follows: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Unrecognized deferred tax assets on tax losses 168.8 167.7 Unrecognized deferred tax assets on deductible temporary differences 22.1 20.0 Total unrecognized deferred tax assets 190.9 187.7 Main tax losses and deductible temporary differences not recognized reside in i Luxembourg, ii Brazil, iii Colombia, iv Spain and v UK.
The related deferred tax assets were not recognized as sufficient taxable profit is not expected to be generated in the foreseeable future.
Earnings per share Years ended 31st December 2018 2017 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted Profit attributable to CG plc shareholders in $ millions 15.0 15.0 19.4 19.4 Number of shares in millions Weighted average number of shares outstanding 670.7 670.7 614.2 614.2 Potential dilutive effects related to share-based compensation 0.8 Adjusted weighted average number of shares 671.5 614.2 Profit attributable to CG plc shareholders per share in $ 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.03 There is no dilutive impact from the Private Incentive Plan PIP on the earnings per share as the shares are settled in full by existing shares held by Reservoir Capital Group.
Intangible assets and goodwill Project development Software In $ millions Goodwill rights and Other Total Cost 0.5 121.7 14.6 136.8 Accumulated amortization and impairment 8.9 9.2 18.1 Carrying amount as of 31st December 2016 0.5 112.8 5.4 118.7 Additions 0.5 0.9 1.4 Acquired through business combination 29.2 29.2 Currency translation differences 0.1 2.9 0.3 2.5 Reclassification 0.1 0.1 Amortization charge 8.0 1.8 9.8 Closing net book amount 0.6 131.6 4.9 137.1 Cost 0.6 166.2 16.7 183.5 Accumulated amortization and impairment 34.6 11.7 46.3 Carrying amount as of 31st December 2017 0.6 131.6 4.9 137.1 Additions 0.5 0.8 1.3 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Acquired through business combination 2.6 2.6 Currency translation differences 0.1 15.8 0.2 16.1 Reclassification 0.4 1.8 2.1 Amortization charge 8.0 1.6 9.6 Closing net book amount 0.5 111.2 5.7 117.4 Cost 0.5 149.0 18.7 168.2 Accumulated amortization and impairment 37.8 13.0 50.8 Carrying amount as of 31st December 2018 0.5 111.2 5.7 117.4 The project development rights mainly relate to the fair value of licenses acquired from the initial developers for our wind parks in Peruand Brazil.
Acquisitions in 2017 relate to the acquisition of an intangible asset related to a concession arrangement in the Thermal and Renewable portfolio in Brazil.
Acquisitions through business combinations in 2018 mainly related to green certificates in Romania.
For the years ended 31st December 2017, and 2018, certain triggering events were identified, and the related intangible assets were tested for impairment.
These impairment tests did not result in any impairment refer to note 4.11.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 146 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.11.
Property, plant and equipment Assets acquired through business combinations are explained in Note 3 Major events and changes in the scope of consolidation.
The power plant assets predominantly relate to wind farms, natural gas plants, fuel oil or diesel plants, coal plants, hydro plants, solar plants and other buildings.
Other assets mainly include IT equipment, furniture and fixtures, facility equipment, asset retirement obligations and vehicles, and project development costs.
Power Construction plant work in In $ millions Land assets progress Other Total Cost 27.7 3,194.9 26.5 216.6 3,465.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 0.5 1,028.2 86.6 1,115.3 Carrying amount as of 1st January 2017 27.2 2,166.7 26.5 130.1 2,350.3 Additions 10.7 66.8 26.3 103.8 Disposals 0.2 0.3 0.6 0.1 1.2 Reclassification 10.1 12.7 2.6 Acquired through business combination 44.4 1,141.6 70.7 1,256.7 Currency translation differences 3.7 204.4 19.4 0.6 226.9 Depreciation charge 216.0 13.6 229.6 Closing net book amount 67.7 2,908.3 60.6 216.6 3,253.1 Cost 68.2 4,440.8 60.6 333.5 4,903.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 0.5 1,532.5 116.9 1,649.9 Carrying amount as of 31st December 2018 67.7 2,908.3 60.6 216.6 3,253.1 Construction work in progress in 2018 predominantly related to our Austria Wind project repowering, our Vorotan refurbishment project and our Bonaire and Maritsa plants.
Additions in 2018 mainly related to the projects and plants in construction work in progress and project development costs related to our Kosovo project.
Assets acquired through business combination mainly relate to the acquisition of a Spanish CSP portfolio and are detailed in note 3.1.
Depreciation included in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of income amounted to $229.4 million in the period ended 31stDecember 2018 whereas depreciation included in selling, general and administrative expenses amount to $0.2 million in the yearended 31st December 2018.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 147 In 2018, the Group did not capitalize any significant borrowing costs in relation to project financing.
Power Construction plant work in In $ millions Land assets progress Other Total Cost 17.8 2,706.1 20.9 123.4 2,868.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 0.3 699.9 53.9 754.1 Carrying amount as of 1st January 2017 17.5 2,006.2 20.9 69.5 2,114.0 Additions 8.4 16.6 22.7 47.7 Disposals 0.1 4.0 0.6 0.6 5.3 Reclassification 11.8 12.2 0.9 1.3 Acquired through business combination 8.1 216.0 1.0 52.0 277.1 Currency translation differences 1.7 95.9 0.9 0.3 98.2 Depreciation charge 161.4 11.0 172.4 Impairment charge 2.7 0.6 3.3 1 Transferred to disposal group classified as held for sale 3.5 0.1 0.7 4.3 Closing net book amount 27.2 2,166.7 26.5 130.1 2,350.3 Cost 27.7 3,194.9 26.5 216.6 3,465.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 0.5 1,028.2 86.6 1,115.3 Carrying amount as of 31st December 2017 27.2 2,166.7 26.5 130.1 2,350.3 1 The Group decided to sell its Kramatorsk Ukrainian power plant and signed a share purchased agreement on 22nd December 2017.
The Group classified the asset as Assets held for sale in conformity with IFRS 5 and tested the asset for impairment on the basis of the share purchase price less costs to sell.
As a result, the Group recorded an impairment charge of $3.3 million in 2017.
In relation to this, as at 31st December 2017, $13.7 million of assets were classified as Assets held for sale and $12.9 million of liabilities were classified as Liabilities held for sale.
Of the $13.7 million, $4.3 million related to Property, plant and equipment, $8.0 million related to working capital and $1.4 million related to cash and cash equivalents.
Of the $12.9 million, $0.9 million related to provisions, $9.2million related to working capital and $2.8 million related to borrowings.
The disposal was completed in February 2018.
Construction work in progress in 2017 predominantly relates to our Maritsa plant and Austria Wind project repowerment.
Depreciation included in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of income amount to $171.8 million in the year ended 31stDecember 2017 whereas depreciation included in selling, general and administrative expenses amount to $0.7 million in the yearended 31st December 2017.
Assets acquired through business combination relate to the acquisition of a Thermal and Renewable portfolio in Brazil and Italy, andaredetailed in note 3.2.
In 2017, the Group did not capitalize any significant borrowing costs in relation to project financing.
Impairment tests on tangible and intangible assets For the years ended 31st December 2017 and 2018 certain triggering events were identified primarily driven by lower performance ofthe assets, change of regulation and environmental factors, requiring an impairment test of the relevant assets.
The recoverable amount is determined as the higher of the value in use determined by the discounted value of future cash flows discounted cash flow method or DCF, determined by using cash flows projections consistent with the following year budget and the most recent forecasts prepared by management and approved by the Board and the fair value less costs to sell, determined on the basis of market data comparison with the value attributed to similar assets or companies in recent transactions.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 148 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Impairment tests were performed for the year ended 31st December 2018 using the following assumptions and related sensitivity analysis.
In $ millions Net book value Valuation approach Discount rate Capacity factor Sensitivity analysis Brazilian wind 655.9 DCF 10% Wind scenario Discount rate increased power plants at P90 by 1% Wind scenario at P95 The sensitivity calculations show that an increase by 1% of the discount rate and a wind scenario at P95 for Brazilian wind power plants assets would not have a material impact on the results of impairment tests or, therefore, on the Groups consolidated financial statements as of 31st December 2018.
Changes to be made to the key impairment test assumptions to reduce the value in use to net book value would not correspond to the definition of a reasonable change as defined by IAS 36.
For the year ended 31st December 2017, in relation to the sale of its Ukrainian power plant, the Group conducted an impairment test which resulted in an impairment charge of $3.3 million based on the sales proceeds.
For the year ended 31st December 2017 impairment tests were performed in relation with Brazilian wind and hydro power plants and confirmed the carrying value of the assets.
Impairment tests were also performed for the year ended 31st December 2017 using the following assumptions and related sensitivity analysis.
In $ millions Net book value Valuation approach Discount rates Capacity factor Sensitivity analysis Brazilian wind 801.6 DCF 11% Wind scenario Discount rate increased power plants at P50 by 1% Wind scenario at P75 Brazilian hydro 255.8 DCF 11% Hydro scenario Discount rate increased power plants at P75 by 1% 5% cut in EBITDA margin The sensitivity calculations show that an increase by 1% of the discount rate and a wind scenario at P75 for Brazilian wind power plant assets or a 5% cut in EBITDA margin for Brazilian hydro power plants would not have a material impact on the results of impairment tests or, therefore, on the Groups consolidated financial statements as of 31st December 2017.
The P-factor quantifies the uncertainty of annual energy yield predictions.
P75 is the energy level that wind turbines are 75% likely toproduce over an average year, given the uncertainties in the measurement, analysis and operations of wind turbines.
P50 is the average annual energy yield predicted for wind farms, which corresponds to the annual energy output that wind farms are most likely toachieve.
Changes to be made to the key impairment test assumptions to reduce the value in use to net book value would not correspond tothedefinition of a reasonable change as defined by IAS 36.
Financial and contract assets Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 1 Contract assets Concession arrangements 437.6 550.0 2 Finance lease receivables 54.3 62.0 Other 6.3 5.7 Total financial and contract assets 498.2 617.7 1 The Group operates plants in Togo, Rwanda and Senegal which are in the scope of the financial model of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
Our Togo power plant was commissioned in 2010 and is operated under a power purchase agreement with a unique offtaker, Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo CEET which has an average remaining contract life of approximately 16.8 years as of 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: 17.8 years.
At expiration, the Togo plant, along with all equipment necessary for the operation of the plant, will be transferred to the Republic of Togo.
This arrangement is accounted for as a concession arrangement and the value of the asset is recorded as a financial asset.
The all-in base capacity tariff under the Togo power purchase agreement is adjusted annually for a combination of U. S. Euro and local consumer price index related to the cost structure.
Our Rwanda power plant consists of the development, construction and operation of Gas Extraction Facilities GEF and an associated power plant.
The GEF is used to extract methane and biogas from the depths of Lake Kivu in Rwanda and deliver the gas via submerged gas transport pipelines to shore-based power production facilities totaling 26 MW of gross capacity.
The PPA runs for 25years starting on the commercial operation date and ending in 2040.
Our Cap des Biches power plant in Senegal consists of the development, construction and operation of five engines with a flexi-cycle system technology based on waste heat recovery totaling about 86 MW.
A PPA integrating all the Cap des Biches requirements and agreements on price was signed for 20 years starting on the commercial operation date of the project and ending in 2036.
2 Relates to finance leases where the Group acts as a lessor, and includes our Bonaire plant in the Dutch Caribbean and our Saint Martin plant in the French Territory.
Bonaire has an average remaining contract life of approximately 6.6 years as of 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: 7.6 years : Saint Martin has an average remaining contract life of approximately 4.3 years as of 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: 5.3 years.
No losses from impairment of contracted concessional assets and finance lease receivables in the above projects were recorded during the years ended 31stDecember 2018 and 2017.
Cash outflows relating to the acquisition of financial assets under concession agreements amounted to $0.0 million as of 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: $35.4 million.
Net cash inflows generated by the financial assets operations amounted to $83.1 million as of 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: $52.7million.
Investments in associates Set out below are the associates of the Group as of 31st December 2018: Operational plant Country of incorporation Ownership interests Date of acquisition Sochagota Associate Colombia 49.0% 2006 and 2010 Termoemcali Associate Colombia 37.4% 2010 Productora fide Energa fide Boyac Associate Colombia 50.0% 2016 Evacuacion Villanueva del Rey, S. L. Associate Spain 39.9% 2018 Evacuacion Villanueva del Rey, S. L. is a facility designated to evacuate solar energy from the Spanish CSP plants acquired in 2018.
Set out below is the summarized financial information for the investments which are accounted for using the equity method presentedat 100% : Current Non-current Current Non-current In $ millions assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue Net income Years ended 31st December 2017 Sochagota 70.0 4.4 22.1 8.2 35.1 5.8 Termoemcali 24.6 49.5 15.6 32.1 32.9 6.2 Productora fide Energa fide Boyac 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 Years ended 31st December 2018 Sochagota 38.0 13.4 12.7 1.0 29.8 0.7 Termoemcali 23.2 47.3 12.2 24.2 33.5 9.3 Productora fide Energa fide Boyac 0.3 0.7 0.5 Evacuacion Villanueva del Rey, S. L. 0.3 3.2 0.4 3.1 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 150 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The reconciliation of the investments in associates for each year is as follows: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Balance as of 1st January 27.1 25.7 Share of profit 2.9 5.0 Dividends 3.4 4.3 Other comprehensive income 0.6 Balance as of 31st December 26.6 27.1 4.14.
Management of financial risk The Groups overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from our long-term borrowings.
Interest cash flow risk arises from borrowings issued at variable rates, partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
Typically for any new investments, the Group hedges variable interest risk on a newly issued debt in a range of 75% to 80% of the nominal debt value.
Interest rate risk is managed on an asset by asset basis through entering into interest rate swap agreements, entered into with commercial banks and other institutions.
The interest rate swaps qualify as cash flow hedges.
Their duration matches the duration of the debt instruments.
Approximately 22.9% the Groups existing debt obligations carry variable interest rates in 2018 2017: 30.7% taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
These agreements involve the receipt of variable payments in exchange for fixed payments over the term of the agreements without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
The main interest rate exposure for the Group relates to the floating rates with the TJLP, EURIBOR and LIBOR refer to note 4.23.
A change of 0.5% of those floating rates would result in an increase in interest expenses by $4.1 million in the year ended 31st December 2018 2017: $4.5 million.
Foreign Currency Risk Foreign exchange risk arises from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Euro, Brazilian Real and Bulgarian Lev.
Currency risk comprises i transaction risk arising in the ordinary course of business, including certain financial debt denominated in acurrency other than the currency of the operations: ii transaction risk linked to investments or mergers and acquisition: and iii translation risk arising on the consolidation in US dollars of the consolidated financial statements of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the US dollar.
However the exposure to the Bulgarian Lev is considered remote due to the pegging mechanism ofthe Lev on the Euro.
To mitigate foreign exchange risk, i most revenues and operating costs incurred in the countries where the Group operates are denominated in the functional currency of the project company, ii the external financial debt is mostly denominated in the currency that matches the currency of the revenue expected to be generated from the benefiting project, thereby reducing currency risk, and iii the Group enters into various foreign currency sale forward and or option transactions at a corporate level to hedge against the risk of lower distribution.
Typically, the Group hedges its future distributions in Brazil through a combination of forwards and options for any newinvestment in the country.
The analysis of financial debt by currency is presented in note 4.23.
Potential sensitivity on the post-tax profit result for the year linked to financial instruments is as follows: if the US dollar had weakened strengthened by 10% against the Euro, post-tax profit for the year ended 31st December 2018 would have been $5.4 million higher lower 2017: $0.5 million higher lower.
if the US dollar had weakened strengthened by 10% against the Brazilian Real, post-tax profit for the year ended 31st December 2018 would have been $1.8 million higher lower 2017: $2.2 million higher lower.
Commodity and electricity pricing risk The Groups current and future cash flows are generally not impacted by changes in the prices of electricity, gas, oil and other fuel prices as most of the Groups non-renewable plants operate under long-term power purchase agreements and fuel purchase agreements.
These agreements generally mitigate against significant fluctuations in cash flows as a result in changes in commodity prices by passing through changes in fuel prices to the offtaker.
In the particular case of the Brazilian hydro power plants, the Group hedges most of its exposure against the change in local electricity price in case of low generation.
In such a case, Brazilian hydro power plants may be required to buy electricity on the market.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 151 Credit risk Credit risk relates to risk arising from customers, suppliers, partners, intermediaries and banks on its operating and financing activities, when such parties are unable to honor their contractual obligations.
Credit risk results from a combination of payment risk, delivery risk failure to deliver services or products and the risk of replacing contracts in default known as mark to market exposure i. e. the cost of replacing the contract in conditions other than those initially agreed.
The Group analyzes the credit risk for each new client prior to entering into an agreement.
In addition, in order to minimize risk, the Group contracts Political Risk Insurance policies from multilateral organizations or commercial insurers which usually provide insurance against government defaults.
Such policies cover project companies in Armenia, Bulgaria, Colombia, Nigeria, Peru, Rwanda, Togo, Senegal and Slovakia.
Where possible, the Group restricts exposure to any one counterparty by setting credit limits based on the credit quality as defined by Moodys and S&P and by defining the types of financial instruments which may be entered into.
The minimum credit ratings the Group generally accepts from banks or financial institutions are BBBS&P and Baa3 Moodys.
For offtakers, where credit rating are CCC or below, the Group generally hedges its counterparty risk by contracting Political Risk Insurance.
If there is no independent rating, the Group assesses the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
Trade receivables can be due from a single customer or a few customers who will purchase all or a significant portion of a power plants output under long-term power purchase agreements.
This customer concentration may impact the Groups overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that the customers may be affected by changes in economic, industry or other conditions.
Ageing of trade receivables net are analyzed below: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Trade receivables not overdue 97.7 105.7 Past due up to 90 days 11.5 31.1 Past due between 90 180 days 0.7 1.9 Past due over 180 days 15.6 3.0 Total trade receivables 125.5 141.7 As of 31st December 2018, $49.3 million 31st December 2017: $65.4 million of trade receivables were outstanding in connection with our Bulgarian power plant, Maritsa East 3.
The Group deems the associated credit risk of the trade receivables not overdue to be suitably low.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises from the Group not being able to meet its obligations.
The Group mainly relies on long-term debt obligations to fund its acquisitions and construction activities.
All significant long-term financing arrangements are supported locally and covered by the cash flows expected from the power plants when operational.
The Group has, to the extent available at acceptable terms, utilized non-recourse debt to fund a significant portion of the capital expenditures and investments required to construct and acquire its electric power plants and related assets.
On 6th September 2017, the Group also entered into a 50 million revolving credit facility available for general corporate purposes, maturing in September 2020, and which remained undrawn as of 31st December 2017.
On 9th November 2018, the Group also entered into a 75 million revolving credit facility available for general corporate purposes, maturing in November 2021, and which remains undrawn as of 31st December 2018.
A $7.5 million letter of credit was issued but not drawn under this facility.
A rolling cash flow forecast of the Groups liquidity requirements is prepared to confirm sufficient cash is available to meet operational needs and to comply with borrowing limits or covenants.
Such forecasting takes into consideration the future debt financing strategy, covenant compliance, compliance with internal statement of financial position ratio targets and, if applicable external regulatory or legal requirements for example, cash restrictions.
The subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, unless they have expressly guaranteed any of the holding company indebtedness, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to such debt or to make any funds available whether by dividends, fees, loans or other payments.
Some of the Groups subsidiaries have given guarantees on the credit facilities and outstanding debt securities of certain holding companies in the Group.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 152 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The table below analyzes the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date: Between Less than 1 and 5 Over In $ millions 1 year years 5 years Total Year ended 31st December 2017 402.1 1,819.0 1,079.6 3,300.7 1 Borrowings 200.1 1,690.1 1,035.9 2,926.1 Trade and other payables 169.1 169.1 Derivative financial instruments 14.7 27.9 21.8 64.4 2 Other non-current liabilities 18.2 101.0 21.9 141.1 Year ended 31st December 2018 592.9 1,614.4 1,864.1 4,071.4 1 Borrowings 244.7 1,532.8 1,838.8 3,616.3 Trade and other payables 292.9 292.9 Derivative financial instruments 16.8 35.7 17.3 69.8 2 Other non-current liabilities 38.5 45.9 8.0 92.4 1 Borrowings represent the outstanding nominal amount note 4.23.
Short-term debt of $244.7 million as of 31st December 2018 relates to the short-term portionoflong-term financings that mature within the next twelve months, that we expect to repay using cash on hand and cash received from operations.
2 This corresponds to the debt to non-controlling interest that is described in note 4.24.
The table below analyzes the Groups forecasted interest to be paid into relevant maturity groupings based on the interests maturitydate: Year ended 31st December 2018 Between Less than 1 and 5 Over In $ millions 1 year years 5 years Total Forecast interest expense to be paid 181.0 584.1 421.4 1,186.5 The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in operating performance, indicate that the Group has sufficient financial resources, together with assets that are expected to generate free cash flow to the Group.
As a consequence, the Group has reasonable expectation to be well placed to manage its business risks and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future at least for the twelve month period from the approval date of these financial statements.
Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Capital risk management The Company considers its capital and reserves attributable to equity shareholders to be the Companys capital.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern while providing adequate returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain a capital structure to optimize the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
It may also increase debt provided that the funded venture provides adequate returns so that the overall capital structure remains supportable.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on our borrowings, a foreign exchange forward contract to mitigate its currency risk and cross currency swap contracts in Cap des Biches project in Senegal to manage both currency and interest rate risks.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments are as follows: Year ended 31st December 2018 2017 In $ millions Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 1 Interest rate swaps Cash flow hedge 49.0 35.4 2 Cross currency swaps Cash flow hedge 1.1 14.0 20.9 2 Foreign exchange forward contracts Trading 1.3 3.0 2 Foreign exchange option contracts Trading 5.4 5.1 Total 1.1 69.8 64.4 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swaps Cash flow hedge 33.8 23.8 Cross currency swaps Cash flow hedge 14.0 20.8 Foreign exchange forward contracts Trading 1.3 Foreign exchange option contracts Trading 3.9 5.1 Total non-current portion 53.0 49.7 Current portion 1.1 16.8 14.7 1 Interest rate swaps Cash flow hedge relates to the hedging of the variable elements for certain project financing.
2 The Group has also executed a series of offsets to protect the value, in USD terms, of the BRL-denominated expected distributions from the new Brazilian portfolio.
The first two years of BRL-denominated distributions have been hedged using a series of forward exchange contracts and the distributions expected in years three to five have been protected against material depreciation of the BRL using option contracts.
If hedge accounting does not apply, change in fair value is recognized in the consolidated statement of income.
The notional principal amount of: the outstanding interest rate swap contracts and cross currency swap qualified as cash-flow hedge amounted to $645.2 million as of 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: $572.0 million.
the outstanding foreign exchange forward and option contracts amount to $71.8 million as of 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: $92.8 million.
In 2015, the Group entered into cross currency swaps in our Cap des Biches project in Senegal.
The fair value of the instruments as of 31st December 2018 amounts to $12.8 million 31st December 2017: $20.9 million.
The accounting and risk management policies, and further information about the derivative financial instruments that we use, are set out in note 4.14.
The Group recognized an income of $10.7 million in 31st December 2018 in relation to its interest rate and cross currency swaps within Finance costs net 31st December 2017: loss of $12.1 million.
Fair value measurements Fair value measurements of financial instruments are presented through the use of a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the valuation techniques used in fair value calculations.
The Groups policy is to recognize transfers into and out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the end of the reporting period.
The levels in the fair value hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group has the ability to access at the measurement date.
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
There were no transfers between fair value measurement levels between 31st December 2018 and 31st December 2017.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 154 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued When measuring our interest rate, cross currency swaps and foreign exchange forward and option contracts at fair value on a recurring basis at both 31st December 2018 and 2017, we have measured these at level 2 in the fair value hierarchy with the exception of the debt to non-controlling interests which is level 3.
The fair value of those financial instruments is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuations techniques maximize the use of observable data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
The Group uses a market approach as part of their available valuation techniques to determine the fair value of derivatives.
The market approach uses prices and other relevant information generated from market transactions.
The Groups finance department performs valuation of financial assets and liabilities required for financial reporting purposes as categorized at level 2.
The Groups only derivatives are interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign exchange option contracts and cross currency swap contracts in our Cap des Biches project in Senegal.
Financial instruments by category Financial asset category Assets at fair value Total net through Derivative book value In $ millions Loans and profit and used for per balance Year ended 31st December 2017 receivables loss hedging sheet Financial and contract assets 617.7 617.7 Trade and other receivables 215.4 215.4 1 Other non-current assets 18.4 0.7 19.1 Cash and cash equivalents 781.1 781.1 Total 851.5 781.8 1,633.3 Financial asset category Assets at fair value Total net through Derivative book value In $ millions Loans and profit and used for per balance Year ended 31st December 2018 receivables loss hedging sheet Derivative financial instruments 1.1 1.1 Financial and contract assets 498.2 498.2 Trade and other receivables 284.5 284.5 1 Other non-current assets 2.6 2.6 Cash and cash equivalents 696.9 696.9 Total 785.3 696.9 1.1 1,483.3 Financial liability category Liabilities at Other fair value financial Total net through liabilities at Derivative book value In $ millions profit and amortized used for per balance Year ended 31st December 2017 loss cost hedging sheet Borrowings 2,890.1 2,890.1 Derivative financial instruments 8.1 56.3 64.4 Trade and other payables 169.1 169.1 1 Other current liabilities 67.5 67.5 Other non-current liabilities 85.0 81.5 166.5 Total 93.1 3,208.2 56.3 3,357.6 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 155 Financial liability category Liabilities at Other fair value financial Total net through liabilities at Derivative book value In $ millions profit and amortized used for per balance Year ended 31st December 2018 loss cost hedging sheet Borrowings 3,560.0 3,560.0 Derivative financial instruments 6.7 63.1 69.8 Trade and other payables 292.9 292.9 1 Other current liabilities 100.5 100.5 Other non-current liabilities 69.2 87.2 156.4 Total 75.9 4,040.6 63.1 4,179.6 1 These balances exclude receivables and payables balances in relation to taxes disclosed in notes 4.18, 4.20 and 4.28 respectively.
Other non-current assets Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 1 CO quotas receivable 3.6 2 2 VAT receivables 6.0 10.3 3 Advance to supplier 9.7 9.5 Restricted cash 0.7 Other 7.2 5.4 Total other non-current assets 22.9 29.5 1 Long-term receivables relating to the Maritsa power plant and to be received through a pass-through mechanism agreed with its offtaker.
A similar liability is presented in note 4.24.
2 VAT receivables mainly relate to the Vorotan project.
The amount is expected to be recovered over a five-year period from the acquisition date in 2015 and was discounted using a rate of 10.0%.
A current portion of $3.4 million is presented in trade and other receivables in the consolidated statement of financial position as of 31st December 2018 $4.7 million as of 31st December 2017.
3 Advance payment to supplier relates to Vorotan EPC contract as part of the refurbishment program.
Inventories Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Fuel 13.0 12.8 Spare parts 35.6 25.3 1 Other 68.7 21.0 Total 117.3 59.1 Provision 4.5 5.0 Total inventories 112.8 54.1 1 Increase mainly relates to emission allowances purchased and in transit by our Maritsa business.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 156 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.20.
Trade and other receivables Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Trade receivables gross 127.9 144.1 Accrued revenue unbilled 145.2 57.4 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 2.5 2.4 Trade receivables Net 270.6 199.1 Other receivables 66.7 72.7 Trade and other receivables 337.3 271.8 All trade and other receivables are short term and the net carrying value of trade receivables is considered a reasonable approximation of the fair value.
The ageing of trade receivables net is presented in note 4.14.
All trade and other receivables are pledged as security in relation with the Groups project financings.
The increase in accrued revenue unbilled is primarily related to the acquisition of our Spanish CSP assets, to CO quotas in connection 2 with our Maritsa plant and to our Arrubal plant.
Other receivables primarily correspond to indirect tax receivables, mainly in our power plants in Rwanda, Senegal and Armenia and to the current portion of our financial lease assets.
Cash and cash equivalents Certain restrictions on our cash and cash equivalents have been primarily imposed by financing agreements or long-term obligations.
They mainly include short-term security deposits kept as collateral and debt service reserves that cover short-term repayments and which meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents.
49.2% of our cash and cash equivalents as of 31st December 2018 is pledged as security in relation with the Groups project financings 31st December 2017: 41.0% : cash and cash equivalents also includes $212.9 million as of 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: $107.2 million of cash balances relating to debt service reserves required by project finance agreements.
Issued capital Issued capital of the Company amounted to $8.9 million as at 31st December 2018, with changes as follows: Nominal Allotted, authorized, called up and fully paid Number value million $ million Incorporation on 26th September 2017 100 1.00 Issue of shares 17th October 2017 1,002,000,000 1.00 1,002.0 1,320.7 As at 17th October 2017 1,002,000,100 1.00 1,002.0 1,320.7 Share capital reduction 19th October 2017 0.99 992.0 1,307.5 As at 19th October 2017 1,002,000,100 0.01 10.0 13.2 Issue of ordinary shares Listing on the London Stock Exchange 122,399,020 0.01 1.2 1.6 Issue of ordinary shares Management 712,920 0.01 Share reorganization cancellation of deferred shares 454,399,120 0.01 4.5 5.9 As at 31st December 2017 670,712,920 0.01 6.7 8.9 As at 31st December 2018 670,712,920 0.01 6.7 8.9 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 157 On incorporation, 26th September 2017, the Company issued 100 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1.00 to its Parent Company, ContourGlobal LP.
The amount due was settled through an intercompany receivable.
On 17th October 2017, the Company issued to its Parent Company, ContourGlobal L. P. 1,002,000,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1.00 each as payment for its acquisition of ContourGlobal Worldwide Holdings S. r. l. On 19th October 2017, the Company passed a special resolution supported by a solvency statement to reduce its share capital under s641 a of the Companies Act 2006 by reducing the share capital of the Company of $1,320,736,335 divided into 1,002,000,100 ordinary shares of 1.00, each fully paid, to $13,207,366 divided into 1,002,000,100 ordinary shares of 0.01, each fully paid, by the cancellation of the paid up share capital to the extent of 0.99 per share upon each of the 1,002,000,100 ordinary shares reducing the nominal amount of all such shares from 1.00 to 0.01.
On 8th November 2017, the Company passed a resolution to consolidate the 1,002,000,100 ordinary shares of 0.01 each in the share capital of the Company into 1 ordinary share of 10,020,001 and the sub-division of that share into 547,600,980 ordinary shares and 454,399,120 deferred shares each of 0.01.
On 14th November 2017, the Company completed the pricing of its initial public offering of ordinary shares at 2.50 per share, comprising 122,399,020 new shares and 54,026,083 existing shares.
The Company also issued additional 712,920 new shares subscribed by its management.
The issuance of these new shares resulted in the recognition of a share premium of 306.5 million $400.7 million, net of listing costs deducted of $19.9 million, resulting in total share premium of $380.8 million.
The Group restructure resulted in a $353.0 million debit to retained earnings and other reserves, which represents a capital reorganization reserve.
Finally, the Company cancelled all existing 454,399,120 deferred shares, resulting in a total net ordinary shares of 670,712,920 shares asof 31st December 2017.
There have been no share transactions in the year ended 31st December 2018.
During the year the Group paid dividends of $17.3 million on 31st May 2018 and $26.7 million on 7th September 2018.
Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Declared during the financial year: Final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2018: 2.6000 US cents per share 2017: nil 17.3 Interim dividend for the year ended 31st December 2019: 3.9659 US cents per share 2017: nil 26.7 Total dividends provided for or paid 44.1 During the year 2017, ContourGlobal LP paid dividends of $54.2 million on 19th April 2017 and ContourGlobal plc paid dividends of $21.3million on 8th November 2017.
Borrowings Certain power plants have financed their electric power generating projects by entering into external financing arrangements which require the pledging of collateral and may include financial covenants as described below.
The financing arrangements are generally non-recourse subject to certain guarantees and the legal obligation for repayment is limited to the borrowing entity.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 158 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Groups principal borrowings with a nominal outstanding amount of $3,616.3 million in total as of 31st December 2018 31stDecember 2017: $2,926.1 million primarily relate to the following: Outstanding Outstanding nominal nominal amount amount Project 12.31.18 12.31.17 Type of borrowing Currency Financing Issue Maturity $ million $ million Rate 1 Corporate bond EUR Corporate 2018 2023 860.0 840.4 3.375%, 4.125% Indenture 2025 2 Loan Agreement EUR Spanish CSP 2018 2036 722.1 3.438% Project bond USD Inka 2014 2034 184.6 189.0 6.0% 2 Loan Agreement EUR Spanish CSP 2009 2029 168.0 EURIBOR 6M Variable Loan Agreement BRL Chapada I 2015 2032 166.2 198.7 TJLP 2.18% IPCA 8% 3 Debentures 2029 Loan Agreement EUR Arrubal 2011 2021 165.8 207.9 4.9% Loan Agreement EUR Maritsa 2006 2023 163.3 200.8 EURIBOR 0.125% Loan Agreement USD Vorotan 2016 2034 142.0 137.3 LIBOR 4.625% 3 Loan Agreement BRL Chapada II 2016 2032 132.1 165.1 TJLP 2.18% Loan Agreement Corp. EUR Solar Italy 2017 2024-2028 116.3 125.4 Mix of fix and variable rates 4 Financing Loan Agreement USD Cap des 2015 2033 105.5 110.1 USD-LIBOR BBA ICE 3.20% Biches Loan Agreement USD Togo 2008 2028 96.1 102.9 7.16% Weighted average 3 Loan Agreement BRL Asa Branca 2011 2030 95.0 120.1 TJLP 1.92% Loan Agreement EUR Austria Wind 2013 2027 83.6 98.7 EURIBOR 6M 2.45% and 4.305% EURIBOR 3M 1.95% and 4.0% Loan Agreement USD KivuWatt 2011 2026 74.1 82.0 LIBOR plus 5.50% and mix of fixed rates 5 Debentures BRL Hydro Brazil 2018 2026 72.7 52.5 CDI 3%, 4.2% Portfolio II Debentures BRL Hydro Brazil 2013 2027 43.2 53.0 8.8% portfolio I Loan Agreement EUR Solar Slovak 2009-2015 2023-2026 41.0 50.4 Mix of fix and variable rates Bridge loan BRL Hydro Brazil 2017 2020 83.1 CDI 5% Portfolio II and Solutions Brazil Other Credit Various Various 2012-2013 2016-2034 184.7 108.7 facilities individually $40 million 1 Corporate bond issued by ContourGlobal Power Holdings S. A. in June 2016 for 550 million with two additional 50 million and 100 million taps in July 2016 and February 2017 was fully refinanced in July 2018.
A new 750 million dual-tranche corporate bond was issued by ContourGlobal Power Holdings S. A. in July 2018, itincludes 450 million bearing a fixed interest rate of 3.375% maturing in 2023 and 300 million bearing a fixed interest rate of 4.125% maturing in 2025.
2 On 10th May 2018, the Group acquired a Renewable portfolio in Spain representing a total of 250 MW, including a pre-existing debt due in 2029 with an outstanding nominal of 146.5 million $168.0 million at 31st December 2018 and a new debt issued in 2018 and due in 2036 with an outstanding nominal of 629.7 million $722.1 million at 31st December 2018.
3 Taxa fide Juros fide Longo Prazo TJLP represents the Brazil Long Term Interest Rate, which was approximately 6.98% at 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: 7.0%.
4 On 4th December 2017, the Group acquired a Renewable portfolio in Italy representing a total of 19.1 MW and subsequently to the closing the Group refinanced the portfolio.
On 22nd March 2018, the Group acquired a Renewable portfolio in Italy representing a total of 15 MW.
5 On 17th March 2017, the Group acquired a Thermal and Renewable portfolio in Brazil representing a total of 205.6 MW.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 159 With the exception of our corporate bond and revolving credit facility, all external borrowings relate to project financings.
Such project financings are generally non-recourse subject to certain guarantees.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 US Dollars 625.4 645.4 Euros 2,338.8 1,525.1 Brazilian Reals 595.8 719.6 Total 3,560.0 2,890.1 The carrying amounts and fair value of the current and non-current borrowings are as follows: Carrying amount Fair Value Years ended Years ended 31st December 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 2018 2017 Credit facilities 2,472.0 1,787.0 2,617.9 1,861.5 Bonds 1,088.0 1,103.1 1,058.8 1,175.9 Total 3,560.0 2,890.1 3,676.7 3,037.4 Net debt as of 31st December 2018 and 2017 is as follows: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 696.9 781.1 Borrowings repayable within one year 244.7 200.1 Borrowings repayable after one year 3,371.6 2,726.0 Interests payable, deferred financing costs and other 56.3 36.0 Net debt 2,863.1 2,109.0 Cash and cash equivalents 696.9 781.1 Borrowings fixed interest rates 2,790.3 2,028.1 Borrowings variable interest rates 826.0 898.0 Interests payable, deferred financing costs and other 56.3 36.0 Net debt 2,863.1 2,109.0 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 160 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Cash and cash Total net In $ millions equivalents Borrowings debt As of 1st January 2017 433.7 2,529.9 2,096.2 Cash flows 263.5 263.5 Acquisitions disposals 37.4 116.0 78.6 Proceeds of borrowings 310.9 310.9 Repayments of borrowings 233.0 233.0 Currency translations differences and other 46.4 166.2 119.8 As of 31st December 2017 781.1 2,890.1 2,109.0 Cash flows 124.7 124.7 Acquisitions disposals 82.1 213.8 131.7 Proceeds of borrowings 1,792.0 1,792.0 Repayments of borrowings 1,151.1 1,151.1 Currency translations differences and other 41.6 184.8 143.2 As of 31st December 2018 696.9 3,560.0 2,863.1 Debt Covenants and restrictions The main long-term financial debts include certain financial covenants, principally as follows: debt Service Coverage Ratio greater than 1.05, 1.10, 1.15, 1.20, 1.30 depending on borrowings, net debt EBITDA lower than 7.5 So Domingos II, 3.25 Brazil Hydro and Solutions, decreasing Senior Debt and Total Debt Arrubal, debt Equity ratio: 85 15, 80 20, 75 25, 64.16 35.84 depending on borrowings, equity Asset ratio above 15% or 25% depending on borrowings, loan Life Coverage Ratio greater than 1.10 Solar Italy or 1.35 Projected KivuWatt.
Non-financial covenants includes the requirement to maintain proper insurance coverage, enter into hedging agreements, maintain certain cash reserves, restrictions on dispositions, scope of the business, and mergers and acquisitions.
These covenants are monitored appropriately to ensure that the contractual conditions are met.
Securities given Corporate bond and Revolving Credit Facility at CG Power Holdings level are secured by pledges of shares of certain subsidiaries ContourGlobal LLC, ContourGlobal Spain Holding Srl, ContourGlobal Bulgaria Holding Srl, ContourGlobal Latam Holding Srl, ContourGlobal Terra Holdings Srl and ContourGlobal Worldwide Holdings Srl, and guarantees from ContourGlobal plc, and the above subsidiaries.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 161 The Group typically grants securities in relation to the issuance of project financing.
The table below provides an overview of the main guarantees provided under existing project financing as of 31st December 2018: Project financing Facility Maturity Security Guarantee given CSP Spain excluding Long Term Facility 2036 First ranking security interest in the shares of all the entities in the borrower Alvarado group plus pledge of receivables and project accounts.
CSP Spain Alvarado Long Term Facility 2029 First ranking security interest in the shares of the borrower group plus pledge of project accounts.
Assignment of rights under project contracts.
Inka Senior Secured 2034 Pledge of shares of Energa Elica SA, EESA assets, accounts, assignment of Notes receivables of the project contracts and insurances.
Inka Letter of Credit 2019 $8.5 million ContourGlobal plc guarantee to Credit Suisse.
Agreement Chapada I Long Term Facility 2032 Pledge of shares of Chapada I SPVs and Holding, SPVs assets, accounts, assignment of receivables of the project contracts and insurances.
Arrubal Arrubal Term Loan 2021 Pledge of i the shares of CG La Rioja, ii project accounts, iii insurance policies, iv receivables on project documents PPA, Operations & Maintenance, Gas Supply Agreement, v mortgage over the power station and industrial items.
Maritsa Credit Facility 2023 Pledge of the shares, any dividends on the pledged shares and the entire commercial enterprise of ME-3, including the receivables from the ME-3 PPA.
Vorotan Long Term Facility 2034 Pledge of shares of ContourGlobal HydroCascade CSJC assets and project accounts, assignment of receivables arising from the project contracts and insurances.
Chapada II Long Term Facility 2032 Pledge of shares of Chapada II SPVs and Holding, SPVs assets, accounts, assignment of receivables of the project contracts and insurances.
Cap des Biches Credit Facility 2033 Pledge over CG Senegal and CG Cap des Biches Sngal shares, pledge over the project accounts, charge over the assets of CG Cap des Biches Sngal, assignment of receivables of CG Cap des Biches Sngal and the insurance policies, direct agreement on the project contracts.
Togo Loan agreement 2028 ContourGlobal plc guarantee on cash shortfall for Debt service, and i a pledge of CG Togo LLC and CG Togo SA capital stock, ii a charge on equipment, material and assets of CG Togo SA, iii the assignment of receivables of CG Togo SA, iv the assignment of insurance policies, and v apledge on the project accounts.
Asa Branca Credit Facility 2030 Pledge of shares of Asa Branca Holding SA, pledge of the receivables under the Asa Branca PPA, pledge on certain project accounts, mortgage of assets of the Asa Branca Windfarm Complex, assignment of credit rights under project contracts EPC, land leases, O&M.
Energie Europe Wind Credit Facilities 2023-28 Pledge of the shares, assets, cash accounts and receivables.
10.3 million & Solar CG Solar Holdings guarantee for the benefit of UBI and Natixis covering a Primavera plant potential adverse impact on FiT further to a GSE inspection.
KivuWatt Financing 2026 Secured by, among others, i KivuWatt Holdings pledge of all of the shares Arrangement of KivuWatt held by KivuWatt Holdings, ii certain of KivuWatts bank accounts and iii KivuWatts movable and immovable assets.
ContourGlobal plc $1.2 million guarantee for the benefit of KivuWatt under the PPA and Gas Concession to the Government of Rwanda and to Electrogaz outside of the loan guarantee.
$8.5 million UK Plc guarantee to cover DSRA as of 31st December 2018.
Hydro Brazil Portfolio II Debentures 2026 First ranking security interest in the shares of all the entities in the borrower and Solutions Brazil group ex-minorities plus pledge of receivables.
French Caribbean Letter of Credit 2021 On 22nd December, 2010, a 2.4 million letter of credit facility was entered Agreement into to fund obligations under the debt service reserve account in accordance with the Saint Martin loan agreement.
This letter of credit expires in June 2021.
No amounts have been recognized in relation to letter of credit in either period.
Chapada III Long Term Facility 2032 Pledge of shares of Chapada III SPVs and Holding, SPVs assets, accounts, assignment of receivables of the project contracts and insurances.
Corporate guarantee from ContourGlobal do Brazil Holding Ltda until Financial Completion.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 162 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.24.
Other non-current liabilities Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 1 Debt to non-controlling interest 69.2 85.0 2 Deferred payments on acquisitions 23.2 52.4 3 CO quotas payables 3.7 2 4 Other 64.0 25.4 Total other non-current liabilities 156.4 166.5 1 Debt to non-controlling interests: in 2011, the Group purchased a 73% interest in Maritsa power plant.
NEK owns the remaining 27% of Maritsa power plant.
The shareholders agreement states that all distributable results available should be distributed to their shareholders, with no unconditional right to avoid dividends.
Consequently and in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: presentation, shares held by NEK do not qualify as equity instruments and are recorded as a liability to non-controlling interests in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
The fair value of the debt to non-controlling interest is determined using a discounted cash flow method based on managements current best estimate of the future distributable profits to the minority shareholder NEK over the PPA period.
This debt is discounted using a European risk free rate and adding the credit default swap CDS spread for Bulgaria.
2 As of 31st December 2018, deferred payments and earn-outs on acquired entities mainly relate to deferred payments to be made to initial developers.
3 CO quotas are described in note 4.18.
2 4 The increase is primarily related to contractual obligations in Brazil, including penalties where wind asset capacity falls below contracted PPA, and to our Spanish CSP acquisition.
The change in the debt to Maritsa non-controlling interest is presented below: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Beginning of the period 85.0 93.1 Dividends 19.5 16.2 Change in fair value recognized in profit and loss 7.2 3.8 Currency translation adjustments 3.5 11.9 End of the period 69.2 85.0 4.25.
Provisions Decommissioning Environmental Legal and In $ millions Maintenance provision other Total As of 1st January 2017 33.8 38.0 71.8 Acquired through business combination 2.8 5.3 8.1 Additions 15.5 6.0 21.5 Unused amounts reversed 0.5 24.4 24.9 Amounts used during the period 3.3 3.3 Currency translation differences and other 1.8 2.0 0.2 As of 31st December 2017 53.4 19.6 73.0 Effect of changes in accounting standards IFRS 15 28.3 28.3 As of 1st January 2018 as restated 25.1 19.6 44.7 Acquired through business combination 9.8 9.8 Additions 10.2 2.6 12.8 Unused amounts reversed 4.9 4.9 Amounts used during the period 0.1 0.1 Currency translation differences and other 2.5 1.3 3.8 As of 31st December 2018 42.7 15.9 58.6 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 163 Provisions have been analyzed between current and non-current as follows: Decommissioning Environmental Legal and In $ millions Maintenance provision other Total Current liabilities 1.0 9.8 10.8 Non-current liabilities 52.4 9.8 62.2 As of 31st December 2017 53.4 19.6 73.0 Current liabilities 17.4 17.4 Non-current liabilities 32.9 8.3 41.2 As of 31st December 2018 32.9 25.7 58.6 Site decommissioning provisions are recognized based on assessment of future decommissioning costs which would need to be incurred in accordance with existing legislation to restore the sites.
Maintenance provisions mainly related to our maintenance obligations under our concession agreement contract in Togo and Senegal.
These amounts are no longer recognized as provisions following the transition to 15 see note 2.1.
Legal and other provisions include amounts arising from claims, litigation and regulatory risks which will be utilized as the obligations are settled and includes sales tax and interest or penalties associated with taxes.
Legal and other provisions have some uncertainty over the timing of cash outflows.
Share-based compensation plans Private Incentive Plan The President & CEO CEO, along with certain members of the ContourGlobal management team, have interests in a Private Incentive Plan PIP.
This is a legacy equity arrangement established by Reservoir Capital the major shareholder in the Company and no new allocations will be made under this plan.
The Company is not a party to the PIP and has no financial obligation, or obligation to issue shares, in connection with it, although it is required to recognize the plan as an expense in accordance with IFRS 2.
All shares that might be delivered under the award will be funded by Reservoir Capital.
While the allocations and terms of the CEOs award were substantially agreed prior to IPO, Reservoir Capital finalized the implementation of CEO award on 27th December 2018 and of other managers awards in January 2019.
As a result, the PIP charge recognized in personnel expenses in 2018 line relates only to the CEO and will increase in 2019 and 2020.
The charge is recognized inthe consolidated statement of income with line item Other operating income expense net and is excluded from Adjusted EBITDA calculation as it does not constitute a present or future liability nor a cash out for the Company and will be fully funded by ReservoirCapital.
The award is in the form of partnership units in Contour Management Holdings LLC which is a partner in ContourGlobal L. P. the limited partnership through which Reservoir Capital owns shares in the Company.
The award comprises Class S units, Class C units and Class B units.
All units deliver an award of shares in ContourGlobal plc.
Under the terms of the PIP, those units entitle the award-holder to have shares in the Company delivered to him if certain financial performance conditions are achieved.
The CEOs holding of units in ContourGlobal L. P. is as follows: Basis of awards Class S Units Up to 6,943,864 ContourGlobal plc shares excluding the impact of any accrued dividends Class C Units Value share between management and Reservoir Capital Group Class B Units ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 164 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The terms of the value share between management and Reservoir Capital are based on a waterfall which operates broadly as follows: i Class S Units are similar in nature to a restricted stock award, subject to an underpin share price.
At final allocation, Reservoir Capital Group set the underpin share price for the Class S units at $2.23 1.74, rather than the 2.57 threshold referred to in the Prospectus, to reflect the share price at the time of final allocation.
ii Class C Units are based on sharing 12% of value above a 6% p. a. threshold on $2.0 billion of total value to ContourGlobal L. P. but after deducting value arising from Class S Units.
iii Class B Units are based on sharing 18% of value above a 9% p. a. threshold on $2.4 billion of total value to ContourGlobal L. P. but after deducting value arising from Class C Units and Class S Units.
The Class B Units also have a catch-up feature that, at valuations significantly above the threshold value, allow management to receive additional value.
Distributions from Class B and C Units are subject to Reservoir Capital realizing value from its investment in ContourGlobal, and the scheme stays in effect until Reservoir Capital has disposed of all its Ordinary Shares in the Group.
Class B Units are fully vested and are not forfeitable.
Class C and S Units vest in equal tranches over the three-year period from IPO.
The date of full vesting is 27th December 2020.
Unvested units will ordinarily be forfeited in the event of resignation or termination for cause.
As of 31st December 2018, in accordance with IFRS 2, the Company recognized a personnel charge of $4.1 million in relation with the PIP.
ContourGlobal long-term incentive plan Effective 28th June 2018, ContourGlobal implemented a long-term incentive plan LTIP consisting of the free attribution of up 1,818,441 ordinary shares to certain executive managers the grantees.
These shares will vest on 31st December 2020 subject to the grantees continued service and to the extent to which some of the four performance conditions set for the awards are satisfied at the vestingdate: iv EBITD A condition: 50.0 % of award to the compounded annual growth rate of the Companys EBITDA between the grant date andthe vesting date.
v IRR condition: 12.5 % of award to the internal rate of return on qualifying Company projects between the grant date and the vestingdate.
vi LTIR condition: 25.0 % of award to the lost time incident rate of the Company as at the vesting date.
vii Project milestones condition: 12.5 % of award to the number of corporate milestones completed on qualifying projects conditions between the grant date and the vesting date.
The LTIP awards have been valued using the Monte Carlo model and the resulting share-based payments charge is being spread evenly over the period between the grant date and the vesting date 30 months.
Fair value at the grant date was estimated to be $1.48.
Key assumptions used in valuing this plan were: Expected life 2 years Vesting period 2.5 years Expecting vesting 75% Expected volatility 16.8% Risk-free interest rate 0.82% ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 165 Dividend yield of 0% has been assumed since grantees are compensated for dividends under clause 6.3 of the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Expected volatility is a measure of the amount by which the Groups shares are expected to fluctuate during the life of an option.
Number of shares Outstanding as of 31st December 2017 1,818,441 Granted during the year Forfeited 264,688 Vested Outstanding as of 31st December 2018 1,553,753 The Groups charge for equity-settled share-based incentives for the year of $0.7 million 2017: $nil has been included within selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of income.
Trade and other payables Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Trade payables 98.2 53.9 194.7 115.2 Accrued expenses Trade and other payables 292.9 169.1 The increase in trade and other payables mainly comes from CO emission quotas purchased in our Maritsa power plant.
Other current liabilities Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Deferred revenue 10.1 6.0 1 Deferred payment on acquisition 23.3 1.8 Other taxes payable 48.0 45.1 2 Other 67.1 59.7 Other current liabilities 148.5 112.6 1 Relates to the deferred payment of the Renewable portfolio in Europe, Brazil and Peru as of 31st December 2018 and to the deferred payment of the Thermal and Renewable portfolio in Brazil as of 31st December 2017.
2 Mainly relates to contractual obligations in Brazil, including penalties and other commitments where wind asset capacity falls below contracted PPA.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 166 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.29.
Group undertakings ContourGlobal plc owns directly or indirectly only ordinary shares of its subsidiaries.
There are no preferred shares scheme in place in the Group.
ContourGlobal plc United Kingdom 15 Berkeley Street 6th Floor, London, United Kingdom, W1J 8DY Country of Consolidated subsidiaries Ownership incorporation Registered address ContourGlobal Hydro Cascade CJSC 100% Armenia AGBU building: 2 2 Meliq-Adamyan str.
0010 Yerevan, Armenia ContourGlobal erneuerbare Energie Europa 100% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria GmbH Windpark HAGN GmbH & Co KG 95% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria Windpark Deutsch Haslau GmbH 62% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria ContourGlobal Windpark Zistersdorf Ost 100% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria GmbH ContourGlobal Windpark Berg GmbH 100% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria ContourGlobal Windpark Scharndorf GmbH 100% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria ContourGlobal Windpark Trautmannsdorf 100% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria GmbH ContourGlobal Windpark Velm GmbH 100% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria ContourGlobal Management Europa GmbH 100% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria ContourGlobal Wind Holding GmbH 100% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria ContourGlobal Development GmbH 100% Austria Fleischmarkt 1, Top 01, Vienna 1010, Austria ContourGlobal Maritsa East 3 AD 73% Bulgaria 48 Sitnyakovo Blvd: 9-th fl.
Sofia 1505, Bulgaria ContourGlobal Operations Bulgaria AD 73% Bulgaria TPP ContourGlobal Maritsa East 3, Mednikarovo village 6294, Galabovo District, Stara Zagora Region, Bulgaria ContourGlobal Management Sofia EOOD 100% Bulgaria 48 Sitnyakovo Blvd: 9-th fl.
Sofia 1505, Bulgaria Galheiros Gerao fide Energia Eltrica S. A.
77% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto Magalhes Junior, 758, 3 andar, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Santa Cruz Power Corporation Usinas 72% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto Magalhes Junior, 758, 3 andar, Hidroeltricas S. A. Itaim Bibi, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Contour Global Do Brasil Holding Ltda 100% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto Magalhes Jnior, 758, 3 andar, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Contour Global Do Brasil Participaes Ltda 80% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto Magalhes Jnior, 758, 3 andar, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Abas Gerao fide Energia Ltda.
100% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto Magalhes Junior, 758, 3 andar, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Ventos fide Santa Joana IX Energias 51% Brazil Rodovia Dr. Mendel Steinbruch, S N Km, 08 Sala 182 Renovveis S. A. Distrito Industrial Maracana CE Calcednia Gerao fide Energia Ltda.
100% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto Magalhes Junior, 758, 3 andar, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Ventos fide Santa Joana X Energias 51% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Renovveis S. A. Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Ventos fide Santa Joana XI Energias 51% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Renovveis S. A. Paulo 04542-000 Ventos fide Santa Joana XII Energias 51% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Renovveis S. A. Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Ventos fide Santa Joana XIII Energias 51% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Renovveis S. A. Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Ventos fide Santa Joana XV Energias 51% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Renovveis S. A. Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Ventos fide Santa Joana XVI Energias 51% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Renovveis S. A. Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Asa Branca Holding S. A.
100% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 167 Country of Consolidated subsidiaries Ownership incorporation Registered address Tespias Gerao fide Energia Ltda.
80% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Asa Branca IV Energias Renovveis SA 100% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Asa Branca V Energias Renovveis SA 100% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Asa Branca VI Energias Renovveis SA 100% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto Magalhes Jnior, 758, 3 andar, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Asa Branca VII Energias Renovveis SA 100% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto Magalhes Jnior, 758, 3 andar, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Asa Branca VIII Energias Renovveis SA 100% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto Magalhes Jnior, 758, 3 andar, So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Ventos fide Santa Joana I Energias 51% Brazil Rodovia Dr. Mendel Steinbruch, S N Km, 08 Sala 182 Renovveis S. A. Distrito Industrial Maracana CE Ventos fide Santa Joana III Energias 51% Brazil Rodovia Dr. Mendel Steinbruch, S N Km, 08 Sala 182 Renovveis S. A. Distrito Industrial Maracana CE Ventos fide Santa Joana IV Energias 51% Brazil Rodovia Dr. Mendel Steinbruch, S N Km 08, Sala 182, Renovveis S. A. Distrito Industrial Maracana CE Ventos fide Santa Joana V Energias 51% Brazil Rodovia Dr. Mendel Steinbruch, S N Km, 08 Sala 182 Renovveis S. A. Distrito Industrial Maracana CE Ventos fide Santa Joana VII Energias 51% Brazil Rodovia Dr. Mendel Steinbruch, S N Km, 08 Sala 182 Renovveis S. A. Distrito Industrial Maracana CE Ventos fide Santo Augusto IV Energias 51% Brazil Rodovia Dr. Mendel Steinbruch, S N Km, 08 Sala 182 Renovveis S. A. Distrito Industrial Maracana CE Chapada do Piau I Holdings S. A.
51% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Paulo 04542-000 Ventos fide Santo Augusto III Energias 100% Brazil Rodovia Dr. Mendel Steinbruch, S N Km, 08 Sala 182 Renovveis S. A. Distrito Industrial Maracana CE Ventos fide Santo Augusto V Energias 100% Brazil Rua Leopoldo Couto fide Magalhes Jr. 758 cj.
31, So Renovveis S. A. Paulo 04542-000, Brazil ContourGlobal Desenvolvimento S. A.
31 So Paulo 04542-000, Brazil Chapada do Piau II Holding S. A.
31, So Paulo 04542-000 Chapada do Piau III Holding S. A.
31, So Paulo 04542-000 Capuava Energy Ltda 80% Brazil Av.
Presidente Costa e Silva, 1178, parte, Santo Andr Afluente Gerao fide Energia Eletrica S. A.
79% Brazil Praia do Flamengo, 70 1 andar, Rio fide Janeiro RJ Goias Sul Gerao fide Energia S. A.
80% Brazil Praia do Flamengo, 70 2 andar, parte.
Rio fide Janeiro RJ RIO PCH I S. A.
56% Brazil Praia do Flamengo, 70 4 andar, Rio fide Janeiro RJ Bahia PCH I S. A.
80% Brazil Praia do Flamengo, 70 6 andar, parte.
Rio fide Janeiro RJ ContourGlobal Swiss Holdings GmbH 100% Swiss Kholrainstrasse 8 8700 Ksnacht, Switzerland ContourGlobal LATAM S. A.
74-09, Bogot, Colombia ContourGlobal Solutions Holdings Ltd 100% Cyprus Capital Center, 2-4 Arch, Makarios III Avenue, 9th Floor, Nicosia 1065, Cyprus ContourGlobal Solutions Ltd 100% Cyprus Capital Center, 2-4 Arch, Makarios III Avenue, 9th Floor, Nicosia 1065, Cyprus Selenium Holdings Ltd 100% Cyprus Capital Center, 2-4 Arch, Makarios III Avenue, 9th Floor, Nicosia 1065, Cyprus ContourGlobal La Rioja, S. L 100% Spain Arrbal Power Plant, Polgono Industrial El Sequero, 26150 Arrbal, La Rioja, Spain.
Contourglobal Termosolar Operator S. L. 100% Spain Calle Orense, nmero 34, 7 piso 28020 Madrid, Spain ContourGlobal Termosolar, S. L. 100% Spain Calle Orense, nmero 34, 7 piso 28020 Madrid, Spain Rsticas Vegas Altas, S. L. 100% Spain Calle Orense, nmero 34, 7 piso 28020 Madrid, Spain Termosolar Majadas, S. L. 100% Spain Calle Orense, nmero 34, 7 piso 28020 Madrid, Spain Termosolar Palma Saetilla, S. L. 100% Spain Calle Orense, nmero 34, 7 piso 28020 Madrid, Spain Termosolar Alvarado, S. L. 100% Spain Calle Orense, nmero 34, 7 piso 28020 Madrid, Spain Evacuacin Villanueva del Rey, S. L. 40% Spain Calle Orense, nmero 34, 7 piso 28020 Madrid, Spain ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 168 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Country of Consolidated subsidiaries Ownership incorporation Registered address Energies Antilles 100% France 8, Avenue Hoche 75008 Paris Energies Saint-Martin 100% France 8, Avenue Hoche 75008 Paris ContourGlobal Saint-Martin SAS 100% France 5 Rue du Gal fide Gaulle, 8 Immeuble le Colibri Marigot, 97150 Saint-Martin ContourGlobal Management France SAS 100% France Immeuble Imaginem, 20-26 boulevard du Parc 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine ContourGlobal Worldwide Holdings Limited 100% Gibraltar Hassans, Line Holdings Limited, 57 63 Line Wall Road, Gibraltar ContourGlobal Helios S. r. l. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy ContourGlobal Solar Holdings Italy S. r. l. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy ContourGlobal Oricola S. r. l. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy ContourGlobal Solutions Italy S. R. L. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Portoenergy S. r. l. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Officine Solari Barone S. r. l. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Officine Solari Camporeale S. r. l. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Contourglobal Mediterraneo S. r. l 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy PVP 2 S. R. L. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy ContourGlobal Sarda S. r. l 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Officine Solari Kaggio S. r. l. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Officine Solari Aquila S. r. l. 51% Italy Contrada Piana del Signore s. n. c. 93012 Gela CL CONTOURGLOBAL ENERGETICA S. R. L. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Ergyca Eight Srl 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Ergyca Green Srl 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Ergyca Industrial Srl 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Ergyca Light Srl 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Ergyca One Srl 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Ergyca Sole Srl 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Ergyca Tracker Srl 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Sungea S. R. L. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Rinnovabili Bari Max S. R. L. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Solar 6 S. R. L. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Solar Realty S. R. L. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Solar 5 S. R. L. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy BS Energia New S. R. L. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Campoverde Societ Agricola S. R. L. 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy Ecoenergia S. R. L. Societ Agricola 51% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy ContourGlobal Management Italy S. R. L. 100% Italy Via Cusani 5, Milan 20121, Italy ContourGlobal Kosovo L. L. C. 100% Kosovo Anton eta 5a 1000 Pristina Republic of Kosovo ContourGlobal Luxembourg S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Kani Lux Holdings S. r. l. 80% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Africa Holdings S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Bulgaria Holding S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Spain Holding S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 169 Country of Consolidated subsidiaries Ownership incorporation Registered address ContourGlobal Latam Holding S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Vorotan Holding S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Terra 2 S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Terra 3 S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Terra 4 S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Terra 5 S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Terra 6 S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Solutions Holdings S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Senegal Holdings S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Terra Holdings S. r. l 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Power Holdings S. A.
100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Worldwide Holdings S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Mirror 1 S. r. l 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Mirror 2 S. r. l 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Mirror 3 S. r. l 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Spain O&M HoldCo S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Intermediate O&M S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Aero Flash Wind, S. A. P. I. fide C. V. 75% Mexico Mexico City, Mexico Tax Address : Ciudad fide Tecate, Baja California KivuWatt Holdings 100% Mauritius 4th Floor, Tower A, 1 CyberCity, c o Citco Mauritius Limited, Ebene, Mauritius ContourGlobal Solutions Nigeria Ltd 100% Nigeria St. Nicholas House, 10th Floor, Catholic Mission Street, Lagos, Nigeria ContourGlobal Solutions Nigeria Holdings 100% Netherlands Keplerstraat 34, Badhoevedorp 1171CD, Netherlands B. V. Contourglobal Bonaire B. V. 100% Netherlands Kaya Carlos A. Nicolaas 3, Bonaire, Netherlands Energa Elica S. A.
Ricardo Palma 341, Office 306, Miraflores, Lima 18, Peru ContourGlobal Peru SAC 100% Peru Av.
Ricardo Palma 341, Office 306, Miraflores, Lima 18, Peru Energa Renovable Peruana S. A.
Ricardo Palma 341, Office 306, Miraflores, Lima 18, Peru Energa Renovable del Norte S. A.
Ricardo Palma 341, Office 306, Miraflores, Lima 18, Peru ContourGlobal Solutions Poland Sp.
Przemyslowa 2A, Radzymin 05-250 Poland ContourGlobal Paraguay Holdings SA 100% Paraguay Simon Bolivar, # 914 casi Parapiti, Asuncion, Paraguay ContourGlobal Solutions Ploiesti S. R. L. 100% Romania Ploeisti, 285 Gheorge Grigore, Cantacuzino street, Prahova County, Ploeisti, Romania Petosolar S. R. L. 100% Romania 7 Ghiocei street, ap.
1, Panciu locality, Panciu city, Vrancea county, Romania KivuWatt Ltd 100% Rwanda Plot 9714, Nyarutarama, P. O.
Box 6679, Kigali, Rwanda RENERGIE Solarny Park Holding SK I a. s. 51% Slovak Republic 25 Pribinova Str.
Bratislava 811 09, Slovakia PV Lucenec S. R. O.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 170 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Country of Consolidated subsidiaries Ownership incorporation Registered address RENERGIE Solrny park Rimavsk Jnovce 51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia s. r. o. RENERGIE Solrny park Dulovo s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Gemer s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Hodejov s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Jesensk s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Nin Pokoradz s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Rieka s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Rohov s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Stara s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Velince 2 s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Hurbanovo s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia AlfaPark s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Druh slnen s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia SL03 s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Bnovce nad 51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia Ondavou s. r. o. RENERGIE Solrny park Bory s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Budulov s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Kalinovo s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia ZetaPark Lefantovce s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny Lefantovce s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Michalovce s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Nin Sklnik s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Otrook s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Paovce s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Gombo s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Rimavsk Sobota 51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia s. r. o. RENERGIE Solrny park Horn Turovce s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia RENERGIE Solrny park Uzovsk Panica 51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia s. r. o. RENERGIE Solrny park Zemplnsky Bran 51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia s. r. o. ZetaPark s. r. o.
51% Slovak Republic Pribinova 25, 811 09 Bratislava, Slovakia ContourGlobal Cap des Biches Senegal S. 100% Senegal 2, Place fide LIndpendance, Dakar, BP 23607, Senegal r. l. ContourGlobal Togo S. A.
80% Togo Route DAnho, Baguida, BP 3662, Lom Togo ContourGlobal Services Africa S. r. l. 100% Togo Immeuble SCI Direction fide ladministration pnitentiaire & fide la rinsertion Angle Rue Agbata, Boulevard du 13 Janvier - 01 BP 3662, Lom - TOGO Co-Generation Technologies B1 LLC 38% Ukraine 77701 51 Schevchenko Street, Bogorychany city, IvanoFrankivsk region, Ukraine AMC Energy LLC 75% Ukraine 02125, 1 Prospect Vyzvolyteliv, Kiev, Ukraine ContourGlobal Solutions Ukraine LLC 100% Ukraine 32, Konstantiniska street, 04071 Kiev, Ukraine ContourGlobal Solutions Northern Ireland 100% United Kingdom 6th Floor Lesley Tower, 42-26 Fountain Street, Belfast BT1 Limited 5EF, Northern Ireland ContourGlobal Europe Limited 100% United Kingdom 15 Berkeley Street, 6th Floor, London, United Kingdom, W1J 8DY ContourGlobal Yield Limited 100% United Kingdom 15 Berkeley Street, London, W1J 8DY ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 171 Country of Consolidated subsidiaries Ownership incorporation Registered address Contour Global LLC 100% US 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 Contour Global Management Inc 100% US 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 ContourGlobal Services Brazil LLC 100% US 650 Fifth Ave 17th Fl.
New York, New York 10019 ContourGlobal Togo LLC 100% US 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware 19808 ContourGlobal A Funding LLC 100% US 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 ContourGlobal Senegal Holdings LLC 100% US 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware 19808 ContourGlobal Senegal LLC 100% US 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 CG Solutions Global Holding Company LLC 100% US Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 ContourGlobal Mirror 6 S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Mirror 5 S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Mirror 7 S. r. l 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Mirror 4 S. r. l 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ContourGlobal Ursaria 3 S. r. l. 100% Luxembourg 35-37 Avenue fide la Libert L-1931 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Investments in associates accounted under Country of the equity method: Ownership incorporation Registered address TermoemCali I S. A. E. S. P. 37% Colombia Carrera 5A N 71-45, Bogot, Colombia Compaa Elctrica fide Sochagota S. A. E. S. P. 49% Colombia Carrera 14 No.
20-21 Local 205A, Plaza Real, Tunja, Colombia Productora fide Energa fide Boyac S. A. S. E. S. P 50% Colombia Cr.
Related party disclosure ContourGlobal L. P. and Reservoir Capital Group As of 31st December 2018 ContourGlobal plc and its subsidiaries have no significant trading relationship with the Groups main shareholder, ContourGlobal L. P. and Reservoir Capital Group which ultimately controls ContourGlobal L. P. Key management personnel Compensation paid to key management executive committee members amounted to $11.8 million in 31st December 2018 31st December 2017: $8.7 million.
Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 5.9 4.8 Termination benefits 2.8 0.8 Post employment benefits 0.1 0.2 Profit-sharing and bonus schemes 2.8 2.9 1 Private incentive plan 4.1 Other share-based payments 0.2 Total 15.9 8.7 1 Refer to note 4.26.
Directors emoluments are disclosed within the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2018, and in relation to the period post incorporation of the Company for the year ended 31st December 2017.
Certain membersof management are party to an agreement with a company that co-owns but has a minority share with ContourGlobal certain assets in Brazil.
Under this arrangement, such membersof management may receive distributions if the minority co-owner company achieves a certain level of return on its investment in those Brazilian assets.
This minority co-owner company is a related party to ContourGlobal as it is owned and controlled by one of the ContourGlobal Directors.
ContourGlobal is not party to the arrangement and has no financial obligation related to it.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 172 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.31.
Financial commitments and contingent liabilities a Commitments The Group has contractual commitments with, among others, equipment suppliers, professional service organizations and EPC contractors in connection with its power projects under construction that require payment upon reaching certain milestones.
As of 31st December 2018, the Group has completed all its construction projects and had $2.6 million of firm purchase commitments of property plant and equipment outstanding in connection with its Maritsa facilities and $14.0 million towards its EPC contractors for its Scharndorf wind farm.
The Group has also contractual arrangements with Operating and Maintenance O&M providers and transmission operators as it relates to certain of its operating assets.
Maritsa has a long-term Lignite Supply Agreement LSA with Maritsa Iztok Mines MMI for the purchase of lignite.
According to the agreement, Maritsa has to purchase minimum monthly quantities, amounting to 6,187 thousand standard tons per calendar year.
Thetotal commitment through the remaining term of the LSA February 2024 is 31,451 thousand standard tons, equal to $304.3 million at December 2018 prices $9.67 per standard ton, as compared to 37,638 thousands standard tons equal to $381.2 million at the end of2017 $10.13 per standard ton.
In the event of a failure on the part of CG Maritsa East 3 AD ME-3 to take a minimum monthly quantity in any month, ME-3 shall, except in cases caused by Force Majeure and certain actions of Bulgarian authorities as described in the contract, pay to MMI an amount equal to the difference between i the aggregate amount paid or payable in respect of lignite delivered during such month and ii the aggregate amount that would have been payable had the minimum monthly quantity been taken during such month.
Pursuant to Vorotan acquisition, the Group has agreed to refurbish the hydro power plants and intends to invest approximately $70million over six years in a refurbishment program started in 2017 to modernize Vorotan and improve its operational performance, safety, reliability and efficiency.
As of 31st December 2018 Vorotan disbursed $17.5 million of which $9.5 million was an advance payment to the EPC contractor.
b Contingent liabilities The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of legal claims arising in the ordinary course of business.
The Group reviews these matters in consultation with internal and external legal counsel to make a determination on a case-by-case basis whether a loss from each of these matters is probable, possible or remote.
These claims involve different parties and are subject to substantial uncertainties.
Operation & Maintenance contractor litigation Energies Antilles In 2015, a 5 million legal claim was brought against EA by the O&M contractor in relation to cost overruns following changes in French labor laws IEG statusIndustries Electriques et Gazires.
On 21st September 2018, judgment was rendered by the Commercial Court of Paris in favor of the O&M contractor.
The Commercial Court appointed an expert to determine the amount of costs for which EA should be liable, as opposed to those costs that were attributable to the O&M contractors management decisions.
To date, several meetings with the expert have already taken place.
In parallel with the expert proceeding, EA appealed before the Paris Court of Appeal against the Commercial Courts decision on legal grounds.
The expert proceeding is not expected to conclude before the second half of 2019.
KivuWatt arbitration KivuWatt Ltd On December 12, 2018, the Government of Rwanda filed a request for arbitration before the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes naming KivuWatt Ltd. as the respondent, alleging that it had suffered damages of approximately $80 million arising from KivuWatts delay in entering into commercial service.
KivuWatt contests the Governments right to damages over and above the $1.2 million in liquidated damages provided for in the PPA and already paid by KivuWatt and is preparing its response.
No provision has been recorded as of 31st December 2018 in relation to the above claims as the Group considers that it is less than probable that liabilities will arise from these claims.
The Group from time to time is involved in disputes in relation to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around the world.
Where appropriate, provisions are recorded, based on the assessment of each case.
c Lease commitments Operating lease as a lessee The Group is lessee under non-cancellable operating leases, primarily for office space and land to conduct its business.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 No later than 1 year 5.9 5.9 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 19.4 21.0 Later than 5 years 213.9 243.3 Total 239.2 270.2 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 173 Finance lease as a lessee The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable finance leases Inka project are as follows: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Minimum lease payments No later than 1 year 0.3 0.3 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 1.3 1.3 Later than 5 years 3.1 3.4 Gross investment in the lease 4.7 5.0 Future finance interest 1.7 1.9 Present value of finance lease obligation 3.0 3.1 Operating lease as a lessor The Group is lessor under non-cancellable operating leases.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Minimum lease payments No later than 1 year 62.1 62.0 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 231.4 249.4 Later than 5 years 527.6 577.5 Total 821.1 888.9 Finance lease as a lessor The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable finance leases relating to our operation of Energies Saint Martin and Bonaire are as follows: Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Minimum lease payments No later than 1 year 11.6 12.0 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 45.8 47.2 Later than 5 years 26.5 38.1 Gross investment in the lease 83.9 97.3 Less: unearned finance income 20.2 26.1 Total 63.7 71.2 Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Analyzed as: Present value of minimum lease payments: No later than 1 year 11.0 11.4 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 35.4 36.4 Later than 5 years 17.3 23.4 Total 63.7 71.2 4.32.
Guarantees and letters of credit The Group and its subsidiaries enter into various contracts that include indemnification and guarantee provisions as a routine part of theGroups business activities.
Such contracts generally indemnify the counterparty for tax, environmental liability, litigation, and other matters, as well as breaches of representations, warranties, and covenants set forth in the agreements.
In many cases, the Groups maximum potential liability cannot be estimated, since some of the underlying agreements contain no limits on potential liability.
The Group also acts as guarantor to certain of its subsidiaries and obligor with respect to some long-term arrangements contracted atproject level.
For the financial guarantees and letters of credit, refer to note 4.23 Borrowings.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 174 Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.33.
Statutory Auditors fees Years ended 31st December In $ millions 2018 2017 Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Groups annual accounts and consolidated 1.2 1.3 financialstatements Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Groups subsidiaries 1.4 1.1 Audit-related assurance services 0.3 Other assurance services 1.1 6.6 Tax compliance services Tax advisory services Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 Total net of out of pocket expenses 4.1 9.1 In 2018 work was performed in respect of acquisitions $0.8 million and on bond refinancing $0.4 million.
In 2017 other assurance services mainly included exceptional events which included the Initial Public Offering in the United Kingdom of ContourGlobal plc $5.7million inNovember 2017.
Subsequent events Acquisition of a portfolio in Mexico On 7th January 2019, the Group signed the acquisition of two natural gas-fired combined heat and power CHP plants, together withdevelopment rights and permits for a third plant, in Mexico from Alpek, for $724 million in cash.
An additional payment at closing estimated at $77 million represents the value added tax assessed for the transaction and is expected to be refunded in full within 12months of closing.
The CHP plants have a gross installed capacity of 518 MW.
The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2019.
