Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General Information ConvaTec Group Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act of 2006 with its registered office situated in England and Wales.
The Companys registered office and principal place of business is at 3 Forbury Place, 23 Forbury Road, Reading, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom.
The Company and its subsidiaries collectively, the Group are a global medical products and technologies group focused on therapies for the management of chronic conditions, including products used for advanced chronic and acute wound care, ostomy care, continence and critical care and infusion devices used in the treatment of diabetes and other conditions.
A list of the Companys subsidiary companies is provided in the ConvaTec Group Plc company only financial statements, pages 176 to 178 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in US dollars USD, being the functional currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
All values are rounded to $0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
Accounting Standards New standards and interpretations applied for the first time In the current year the Group adopted the following new or amended International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : IFRS 2, Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2 IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Otherwise the accounting policies set out in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies, below, have been applied consistently to both years presented in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
IFRS 2, Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2 The Group applied Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2, from 1 January 2018.
The amendments related to the following areas: The accounting for the effects of vesting conditions on cash-settled share-based payment transactions: The classification of share-based payment transactions with net settlement features for withholding tax obligations: and The accounting for a modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment that changes the transaction from cash-settled to equity-settled.
The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement The Group applied IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, from 1 January 2018.
The adoption of IFRS 9, based on the financial instruments and hedging relationships as at the date of initial application of IFRS 9 1 January 2018 and at 31 December 2018, did not have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Classification and measurement With respect to the classification and measurement of financial assets, the number of categories of financial assets under IFRS 9 has been reduced compared to IAS 39.
Under IFRS 9, the classification of financial assets is based both on the business model within which the asset is held and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset.
There are three principal classification categories for financial assets that are debt instruments: i amortised cost ii fair value through other comprehensive income FVTOCI and iii fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Equity investments in scope of IFRS 9 are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised in profit or loss unless an irrevocable election is made to recognise gains or losses in other comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9, derivatives embedded in financial assets are not bifurcated, but instead the whole hybrid contract is assessed for classification.
Under IFRS 9, financial assets can be designated as FVTPL to mitigate an accounting mismatch.
In respect to classification and measurement of financial liabilities, changes in the fair value of a financial liability designated as FVTPL due to credit risk are presented in other comprehensive income unless such presentation would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
There have been no changes recognised in the classification, measurement or accounting for any financial assets or liabilities held by the Group at 31 December 2018.
Refer to Note 27 Financial Instruments for further details.
Impairment The impairment model under IFRS 9 reflects expected credit losses, as opposed to only incurred credit losses under IAS 39.
Under the impairment approach in IFRS 9, it is not necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognised, instead, an entity accounts for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses.
The amount of expected credit losses, if any, should be updated at each reporting date.
IFRS 9 did not result in a material change in credit losses recognised by the Group upon adoption.
Hedge accounting On initial application of IFRS 9, the Group has elected to apply the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements because they align more closely with the Groups risk management policies.
Under IFRS 9, a greater range of economic hedges will be eligible for hedge accounting.
In particular, the Group will be able to apply hedge accounting for certain risk exposures, such as the exposure to changes in exchange rates or changes in the costs of financing arising from changes in market interest rates.
The Groups hedging relationships under IAS 39 qualify as continuing hedging relationships under IFRS 9.
138 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 2.
Accounting Standards continued New standards and interpretations applied for the first time continued IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Group applied IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, from 1 January 2018.
Upon application of IFRS 15, the Groups revenue recognition policy has been expanded to include the accounting for material rights and contract costs.
The Group applied IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect method however, an adjustment to the opening balance of equity at 1 January 2018 was not made as the Group determined that this adjustment was immaterial.
The details of the changes in accounting policies are disclosed below: Material rights volume discounts The Group has determined that the option to purchase additional products with a volume discount represents a material right and a separate performance obligation.
The Group allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative stand-alone selling price basis.
Contract costs commission fees payable The Group previously recognised commission fees payable as selling expenses when they were incurred.
Under IFRS 15, the Group capitalises those commission fees as costs of obtaining a contract when they are incremental, and if they are expected to be recovered it amortises them consistently with the pattern of revenue for the related contract.
If the expected amortisation period is one year or less, then the commission fee is expensed when incurred.
Further information is given in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies.
IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration The Group applied IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration, from 1 January 2018.
The interpretation covers foreign currency transactions when an entity recognises a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration before the entity recognises the related asset, expense or income.
The adoption of this interpretation did not have any impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
New standards and interpretations not yet applied At the date of authorisation of these Consolidated Financial Statements, the following new and revised IFRSs, amendments and interpretations that are potentially relevant to the Group, and which have not been applied in these Consolidated Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet effective.
All are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019: IFRS 16, Leases IAS 19, Plan Amendments, Curtailment or Settlement Amendments to IAS 19 IFRIC 23, Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Annual Improvements of IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle IFRS 3, IFRS 11, IAS 12, IAS 23 The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these in 2019 will have no material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group except for IFRS 16, Leases.
IFRS 16, Leases IFRS 16, Leases, will be effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, and will introduce changes to lessee accounting by removing the distinction between operating and finance leases, requiring the recognition of a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement for all leases.
The Groups operating leases impacted by IFRS 16 principally include real estate and vehicles.
Existing finance leases continue to be treated as finance leases.
For existing operating leases, the Group will apply the modified retrospective approach by measuring the right-of-use asset at an amount equal to the lease liability at the date of transition and therefore comparative information will not be restated.
Upon transition the Group will also apply the following practical expedients: Application of a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics: Exclude initial direct costs from the right-of-use assets: Use hindsight when assessing the lease term: and Not to reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease.
The Group will elect to account for lease payments as an expense on a straight line basis over the life of the lease for: Leases with a term of 12 months or less and containing no purchase options: and Leases where the underlying asset has a value of less than $5,000.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the transition date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease.
If this rate cannot be readily determined, the Group will use its incremental borrowing rate which at the date of transition is 3.1%.
The right-of-use asset will be depreciated on a straight line basis and the lease liability will give rise to an interest charge.
The Group estimates that the financial impact of adopting IFRS 16 will be to: Recognise a $71.4 million right-of-use asset and a $71.4 million additional lease liability on adoption: Recognise a related deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset of $16.3 million on adoption.
The net deferred tax impact on adoption will therefore be nil: Increase FY2019 Operating profit by $1.3 million net: and Increase FY2019 Finance costs by $1.9 million.
The estimated deferred tax movement in 2019 in respect of the transitional amounts of deferred tax is expected to be immaterial.
The undiscounted lease liability upon adoption is $17.2 million higher than the $61.9 million minimum rental commitments under all noncancellable operating leases as at 31 December 2018 disclosed in Note 24 Commitments and Contingencies, the differences are due to lease term extensions under IFRS 16 offset by the exclusion of short leases and leases of low value assets.
139 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies Statement of Compliance The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
IFRS includes the standards and interpretations approved by the IASB including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
The principal Group accounting policies are explained below and have been applied consistently throughout the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 other than those noted in Note 2 Accounting Standards above.
Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivatives where fair value has been applied.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
Basis of Consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements include the results of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group: i has power over the investee ii is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement in the investee and iii has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
The consolidated financial information of the Companys subsidiaries is included within the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases, and is prepared for the same year end date using consistent accounting policies.
Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
Consideration transferred in respect of the acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed on the date of the acquisition.
Identified assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at their respective acquisition-date fair values.
The excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is greater than the fair value of the consideration given, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements from the date of acquisition.
Going Concern The Directors have, at the time of approving these Consolidated Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation and a high level of confidence that the Group and the Company has adequate liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they become due and will be able to sustain its business model, strategy and operations and remain solvent for a period of at least 12 months from 14 February 2019.
Thus the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revenue Recognition The Group sells a broad range of products to a wide range of customers, including healthcare providers, patients and manufacturers.
The Group measures revenue for goods sold based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer, net of discounts, chargeback allowances and sales related taxes.
Revenue is recognised when control over a product or service is transferred to a customer, distributor or wholesaler.
Generally, products are insured to delivery.
Due to the short-term nature of the receivables from sale of goods, the Group measures them at the original transaction price invoiced without discounting.
Nature of goods and services Advanced Wound Care, Ostomy Care, and Continence and Critical Care CCC products are sold to pharmacies, hospitals and other acute and post-acute healthcare service providers directly or through distributors and wholesalers.
Infusion Devices primarily serves business-tobusiness customers, consisting of the leading insulin pump manufacturers.
A minority of its revenue is derived from business-to-business urology product sales.
Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations, and payment terms In general, the Groups contracts with customers contain a single performance obligation, that is the delivery of products to customers.
The point at which revenue is recognised depends on the shipping terms in each individual contract.
Revenue is however typically recognised when the customer receives the product.
Where there are non-standard shipping arrangements, revenue is only recognised at the point that the customer has arranged to collect the product, or when it can be deemed that the customer has obtained control over the product.
Allowances for returns, where the contract specifies these terms, are made at the point of sale.
For sales to distributors, revenue is recognised when title is transferred to the distributor and the distributor has assumed the risks and rewards of ownership, the timing of which depends on the contractual terms with each distributor.
Allowances for chargebacks or contractual deductions relating to end customer agreements, which may differ from distributor contracts, are made at the point of title transfer to the distributor.
Material rights volume discounts The Group offers certain prospective volume discounts to customers who achieve a specified volume amount or value of purchases.
After the customer meets the sales volume or value, any additional purchase above this amount is discounted for the remainder of the discount period.
Volume discounts that meet the definition of a material right constitute a separate performance obligation.
Material rights are options to purchase additional products at a discount which would not have been given had the contract not been entered into: are considered significant to customers: and are incremental to the range of discounts typically given for those goods to that class of customer.
The stand-alone selling price of these volume discounts is based on the discount that the customer would obtain when exercising the option, adjusted for any discount the customer could receive without exercising the option and the likelihood that the option will be exercised.
The revenue allocated to volume discount is recognised proportionally to the pattern of options exercised by the customer or when the option expires.
140 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Revenue Recognition continued Contract costs The incremental costs of obtaining a contract are recognised as an asset if the Group expects to recover them, either directly or indirectly.
Costs to fulfil contracts with customers either give rise to an asset or are expensed as incurred.
If the cost is not already covered by other applicable accounting standards, fulfilment costs are capitalised to the extent they directly relate to a specific contract, are used to generate or enhance resources used in satisfying performance obligations and are expected to be recovered.
The asset created, if any, is amortised over the period that the related goods or services transfer to the customer and is periodically reviewed for impairment.
However, IFRS 15 offers a practical expedient to recognise the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortisation period of the asset that the Group otherwise would have recognised is one year or less.
Incremental costs related to obtaining a contract with a customer principally relate to commissions paid by the Group to its sales representatives.
The amortisation period for commissions can differ from the contract term, as expected renewals of the contract need to be taken into account when determining the amortisation period.
For each contract that has sales commissions paid, the Group has determined an appropriate amortisation period that is consistent with the pattern of transfer to the customer of the goods to which the asset relates.
Incremental commission fees that the Group has deemed to be recoverable and are expected to provide economic benefit for a period of greater than one year have been capitalised.
These capitalised costs amounted to $3.3 million at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Capitalised commission costs are amortised over the same period as the recognition of the related revenues.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, the amount of amortisation expense was $1.1 million 2017: nil.
There was no impairment loss in relation to the costs capitalised.
For commissions related to contracts which have an amortisation period of one year or less, the Group applies the practical expedient and recognises the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred.
Contract balances The Group has contract liabilities that primarily relate to any advance consideration received from customers prior to transfer of the related products and material rights offered to customers for options to purchase additional goods.
The contract liability balance at 31 December 2018 was $1.1 million 2017: $3.7 million.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
In addition, deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
Current tax and deferred tax for the year Current and deferred tax are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.
141 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Taxation continued Tax provisions The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is sometimes required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There may be transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain and may be challenged by the tax authorities.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated or actual tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where an outflow of funds to a tax authority is considered probable and the Group can make a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute, management calculates the provision using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
In assessing its uncertain tax provisions, management takes into account the specific facts of each dispute, the likelihood of settlement and professional advice where required.
The Group assumes that where a tax authority has a right to examine amounts reported to it, they will do so and will have full knowledge of all relevant information.
Where the ultimate liability in a dispute varies from the amounts provided, such differences could impact the current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which the dispute is concluded.
Restatement of Uncertain Tax positions The Group has revised its tax accounting to classify provisions for uncertain tax positions as current liabilities.
The Group believes this provides a more relevant presentation, whilst having no impact on the timing of expected cash outflows.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions at 31 December 2018 amount to $25.9 million 2017: $15.4 million: and 2016: $19.1 million.
The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 have been restated to reclassify this provision to Current tax payable.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash represents cash on hand and cash held at banks.
All liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less are considered cash equivalents.
Restricted Cash In certain instances, there are requirements to set aside cash for guarantees on the payment of value-added taxes, custom duties on imports, tender programmes, and vehicle office leases by financial institutions on the Groups behalf.
The total restricted cash balance at 31 December 2018 was $4.4 million 2017: $5.7 million of which $2.0 million 2017: $1.9 million is current and included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets within the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Dividends Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the distribution is approved by the Companys shareholders.
In determining the level of dividend in the year, the Board considers the following factors and risks that may influence the proposed dividend: Availability of distributable reserves: Available cash resources and commitments: Strategic opportunities and investments, in line with the Groups Strategic Plan: and Principal risks and uncertainties of the business as disclosed on pages 36 to 43.
Trade and Other Receivables Credit is extended to customers based on the evaluation of the customers financial condition.
Creditworthiness of customers is evaluated on a regular basis.
Trade and other receivables consist of amounts billed and currently due from customers.
An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for expected lifetime credit losses that result from the failure or inability of customers to make required payments.
In determining the allowance, consideration includes the probability of recoverability based on past experience and general economic factors.
Certain trade and other receivables may be fully reserved when specific collection issues are known to exist, such as pending bankruptcy.
The Group writes-off uncollectable receivables at the time it is determined the receivable is no longer collectable.
The Group does not charge interest on past due amounts.
The analysis of receivable recoverability is monitored and the bad debt allowances are adjusted accordingly.
Trade and other receivables are not collateralised or factored.
The Group sells its products primarily through an internal sales force and third party distributors around the world.
Credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is generally diversified due to the large dispersion of customers across many different geographies.
Exposure to credit risk is managed through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value with the cost determined using an average cost method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and indirect production overhead.
Production overhead comprises indirect material and labour costs, maintenance and depreciation of the machinery and production buildings used in the manufacturing process as well as costs of production administration and management.
Net realisable value is defined as anticipated selling price or anticipated revenue less cost to completion.
Estimates of net realisable value are based on the average selling prices at the end of the reporting period, net of applicable direct selling expenses.
Subsequent events related to the fluctuation of prices and costs are also considered, if relevant.
If net realisable values are below inventory costs, a provision corresponding to this difference is recognised.
Provisions are also made for obsolescence of products, materials, or supplies that i do not meet the Groups specifications, ii have exceeded their expiration date, or iii are considered slow-moving inventory.
The Group evaluates the carrying value of inventories on a regular basis, taking into account such factors as historical and anticipated future sales compared with quantities on hand, the price the Group expects to obtain for products in their respective markets compared with historical cost and the remaining shelf life of goods on hand.
142 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of an asset.
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalised at cost.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefit associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
Replacements of major units of property are capitalised and replaced properties are retired.
The carrying amount of a replaced asset is derecognised when replaced.
Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss during the period in which they are incurred.
Assets are depreciated to their residual value using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives since this most closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset: Buildings 20 to 50 years Building equipment and leasehold improvements 15 to 40 years Machinery, equipment and fixtures 3 to 20 years Land is not depreciated.
Leasehold improvements and assets under finance lease arrangements are amortised over the lesser of the assets estimated useful life or the term of the respective lease.
Depreciation commences when the assets become available for productive use.
Maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
 reflects amounts incurred for property, plant or equipment construction or improvements that have not been placed in service.
Interest is capitalised in connection with the construction of qualifying capital assets during the period in which the asset is being installed and prepared for its intended use.
Interest capitalisation ceases when the construction of the asset is substantially complete and the asset is available for use.
Capitalised interest cost is depreciated on a straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
The assets residual values, depreciation methods and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
On disposal of items of property, plant and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation and impairments are removed from the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Intangible Assets To meet the definition of an intangible asset, an item lacks physical substance and is: i identifiable, ii non-monetary, and iii controlled by the entity and expected to provide future economic benefits to the entity.
The Groups intangible assets consist of patents trademarks and licenses, technology, capitalised software acquired and internally generated, contracts and customer relationships, non-compete agreements, trade names and development costs.
Initial recognition Intangible assets acquired separately by the Group are measured at cost on initial recognition and those acquired in business combinations are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition of the intangible asset, the asset is carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Purchased computer software and certain costs of information technology projects are capitalised as intangible assets.
Software that is integral to computer hardware is capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
The Group follows the guidance of IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 38 on internally generated development costs associated with its systems.
The costs incurred in the preliminary stages of development are expensed as incurred.
Once a project has reached the application development stage, internal and external costs, if direct and incremental, are capitalised until the software is substantially complete and ready for its intended use.
Upgrades and enhancements are capitalised to the extent they will result in added functionality.
Amortisation of intangible assets is calculated using the straight-line method based on the following estimated useful lives: Patents, trademarks and licences 3 to 20 years Technology 10 to 18 years Capitalised software acquired and internally generated 3 to 10 years Contracts and customer relationships 2 to 20 years Non-compete agreements 3 to 5 years Trade names 10 years Development costs 5 years The Group has finite-lived and indefinite-lived trade names.
Indefinite-lived trade names are not amortised but are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired, either individually or at the cash generating unit CGU level.
The assessment of whether the life is indefinite is reviewed annually to determine whether it continues to be supportable.
If it is not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
143 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Impairment of Non-Monetary Assets including Goodwill The Group tests goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment annually or more frequently, if there are any impairment indicators.
However, property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangibles are tested for impairment only if indicators of impairment are present.
For impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generate cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or CGUs.
Additionally, goodwill arising from a business combination is allocated to CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value, less costs of disposal.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
They are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU, and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the remaining assets in the CGU, on a prorated basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
For other assets, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
The Group has not recognised any impairment reversals in 2018 or 2017.
Finance Costs Finance costs include interest costs, standby fees, interest cost on derivative financial instruments, and any loss related to debt extinguishment.
Interest costs are expensed as incurred, except to the extent such interest is related to the construction of property, plant and equipment in progress, in which case interest is capitalised.
The capitalised interest recorded in 2018 was $0.5 million 2017: $0.7 million and was calculated using the Groups weighted average interest rate over the year of 3.5% 2017: 3.1%.
Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and that obligation can be measured reliably.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
Provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted to reflect managements best current estimates.
Due to the judgemental nature of these items, future settlements may differ from amounts recognised.
Provisions consist of decommissioning provisions, restructuring provisions, and legal claims and obligations.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount can be measured reliably.
For a discussion on provisions, refer to Note 21 Provisions and Note 24 Commitments and Contingencies.
Research and Development Research and development expenses are comprised of costs incurred in performing research and development activities including payroll and benefits, clinical manufacturing and pre-launch clinical trial costs, manufacturing development and scale-up costs, product development and regulatory costs, contract services and other outside contractors costs, research license fees, depreciation and amortisation of laboratory facilities, and laboratory supplies.
Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditures are capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and use or sell the asset.
Otherwise, development expenditures are expensed as incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, development expenditures are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital Own shares or Treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of tax, is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and the related tax effects, is included in equity.
Share-Based Payments Prior to listing, the Group had granted share-based compensation to employees under the Annual Equity Plan AEP, Management Executive Plan MEP, and Management Incentive Plan.
Post IPO, share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, Matching Share Plan MSP, and Share Save plans Employee Plans.
Certain features of share-based awards, such as cash-settled share-based payments to employees require the awards to be accounted for as liabilities as opposed to equity.
Liability awards are measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and are required to be remeasured to the fair value at the end of each reporting period until settlement.
True-up compensation cost is recognised in each reporting period for changes in fair value prorated for the portion of the requisite service period rendered in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss General and administrative expenses.
Shares subject to continued employment are recognised over the term of the clawback arrangement.
144 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Share-Based Payments continued Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the award on the grant date.
The fair value of the awards at the date of the grant, which is estimated to be equal to the market value, is expensed to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss General and administrative expenses over the vesting period.
Appropriate adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to uncertainties in satisfying service conditions or non-market performance conditions.
The corresponding credit is to Other reserves in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Refer to Note 25 Share-Based Payments for a further description of the plans and the relevant accounting guidance applied.
Financial Instruments The carrying amounts reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, restricted cash, trade and other payables, and certain accrued expenses and other current liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities.
Debt obligations are initially carried at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs and subsequently at amortised cost.
At initial recognition, the Group classifies its financial instruments depending on the purpose for which the instruments were acquired: Financial assets The Group initially recognises loans and receivables on the date that they are originated.
All other financial assets are recognised initially on the trade date, which is the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in such transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
Financial liabilities The Group initially recognises debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated.
All other financial liabilities are recognised initially on the trade date, which is the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged, terminated or expired.
When the Group exchanges with the existing lender one debt instrument for another one with substantially different terms, the exchange is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Similarly, the Group accounts for substantial modification of terms of an existing liability or part of it as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new liability.
It is assumed that the terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the original effective rate, is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original financial liability.
The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the other financial liabilities category.
Such financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when, and only when, the Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are classified at FVTPL unless they are in a designated hedge relationship.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured at their fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Interest rate derivatives transacted to fix interest rates on floating rate borrowings are accounted for as cash flow hedges and changes in the fair values resulting from changes in market interest rates are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss when the hedged transaction affects profit and loss.
Any ineffectiveness on hedging instruments and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss within finance costs as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained there until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
145 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not US dollar are translated into US dollar at the rate of exchange at the period end.
Income and expenses are translated into US dollar at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
Foreign currency gains and losses resulting from the translation of subsidiaries into US dollar are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to a separate translation reserve within equity.
They are recycled and recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss upon disposal of the operation.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Hyperinflationary Economies IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IAS 29 requires financial statements whose functional currency is the currency of a hyperinflationary economy to be stated in terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period.
The financial information is restated based on the consumer price index CPI before being translated into a different presentation currency.
All amounts are translated at the closing exchange rate at the date of the most recent Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Hyperinflation is indicated by the characteristics of an economy, which includes a cumulative inflation rate over three years that approaches or exceeds 100%, sales and purchases on credit take place at prices that compensate for the expected loss of purchasing power during the credit period, even if the period is short, and the general population prefers to keep its wealth in non-monetary assets or in a relatively stable foreign currency.
Venezuela has been considered as a hyperinflationary economy since 2010.
Hyperinflation accounting had previously been applied to Boston Estada Venezuela based subsidiary which primarily generated income derived in bolivars from a property leased to a third party.
The gain on the net monetary position in 2017 was $10.4 million and the movement in the Venezuelan CPI for the reporting period ended 31 December 2017 was as follows: Movement from previous reporting Reporting Period CPI period 31 December 2017 25,338.5 228.0% Base period, 31 December 2007 100 During the year ended 31 December 2018, Boston Estada disposed of the property from which its primary income was generated, triggering a review of functional currency under The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates IAS 21.
This led to a change in functional currency of Boston Estada to US dollar which is the currency in which funds from financing activities are generated.
As a result hyperinflation accounting is no longer applicable in Boston Estada.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, hyperinflation accounting was required for foreign operations with a functional currency of the Argentine peso as the conditions of IAS 29 had been met.
ConvaTec Argentina SRL is a subsidiary that has a functional currency of Argentine peso, however this entity is not a significant part of the Group and adjustments under IAS 29 have not been applied.
Retirement Benefit Costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being performed at the end of each reporting period.
Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on scheme assets excluding interest are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position with a charge or credit to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they occur.
Remeasurement recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is not recycled.
Past service cost is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in the period of scheme amendment.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Leases Operating leases The cost of operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Finance leases Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases as if the asset had been purchased outright.
Assets acquired under the finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the capital and interest elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations to creditors.
Depreciation is charged on a consistent basis with similar owned assets or over the lease term if shorter.
The interest element of the lease payment is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on a basis which produces a constant rate of charge over the period of the liability.
146 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 4.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with adopted IFRS, requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported value of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
In preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements, no areas of critical accounting judgement or key sources of estimation uncertainty have been identified, including those in relation to a no deal Brexit.
Management have concluded that the critical accounting judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that were reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 would no longer result in a material adjustment in the next 12 months.
Segment Information The Groups management considers its business to be a single segment entity engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of medical products and technologies.
The Group is a global medical products and technologies group focused on therapies for the management of chronic conditions, including products used for advanced chronic and acute wound care, ostomy care and management, continence and critical care, and infusion devices used in the treatment of diabetes and other conditions.
The Group sells a broad range of products to a wide range of customers, including healthcare providers, patients and manufacturers.
The R&D manufacturing and central functions are managed globally for the Group.
The revenues are managed both on a franchise and regional basis.
The Groups CEO, who is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker, evaluates the Groups global product portfolios on a revenue basis and generally evaluates profitability and associated investment on an enterprise-wide basis due to shared geographic infrastructures between the franchises.
In making these decisions, the CEO evaluates the financial information on a Group-wide basis to determine the most appropriate allocation of resources.
This financial information relating to revenues provided to the CEO for the decision making purposes is made on both a franchise and regional basis, however profitability measures are presented on a global basis.
Revenue by franchise The Group generates revenue across four major market franchises: Advanced Wound Care.
The Advanced Wound Care franchise includes advanced wound dressings and skin care products.
These dressings and products are used for the management of chronic wounds resulting from ongoing conditions such as diabetes, immobility and venous disease, as well as acute conditions resulting from traumatic injury, burns, invasive surgery and other causes.
The Ostomy Care franchise includes devices, accessories and services for people with an ostomy or stoma a surgicallycreated opening where bodily waste is discharged, commonly resulting from colorectal cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, bladder cancer, obesity and other causes.
Continence and Critical Care CCC.
The CCC franchise includes products for people with urinary continence issues related to spinal cord injuries, multiple sclerosis, spina bifida and other causes.
The franchise also includes devices and products used in intensive care units and hospital settings.
The Infusion Devices franchise provides disposable infusion sets to manufacturers of insulin pumps for diabetes and similar pumps used in continuous infusion treatments for other conditions.
In addition, the franchise supplies a range of products to hospitals and the home healthcare sector.
The following table sets out the Groups revenue for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 by market franchise: 2018 2017 $m $m Revenue by franchise Advanced Wound Care 587.5 577.8 Ostomy Care 533.3 528.9 Continence and Critical Care 443.0 382.9 Infusion Devices 268.3 275.0 Total 1,832.1 1,764.6 Geographic information Geographic markets The following table sets out the Groups revenue in each geographic market in which customers are located: 2018 2017 $m $m Geographic markets EMEA 747.4 733.0 Americas 945.3 898.1 APAC 139.4 133.5 1,832.1 1,764.6 147 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segment Information continued Geographic information continued Geographic regions The following table sets out the Groups revenue on the basis of geographic regions where the legal entity resides and from which those revenues were made, and separately shows countries representing over 10% of Group revenue: 2018 2017 $m $m Geographic regions US 643.4 591.1 Denmark 270.0 298.0 a Other 918.7 875.5 1,832.1 1,764.6 a Other consists primarily of countries in Europe, Asia-Pacific APAC, Latin America and Canada.
The following table sets out the Groups non-current assets by geographic region: 2018 2017 $m $m a Long-lived assets US 1,355.0 1,432.5 UK 820.9 907.7 Denmark 252.8 271.0 b Other 279.5 282.3 Total long-lived assets 2,708.2 2,893.5 a Long-lived assets consists of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill.
b Other consists primarily of countries in Europe and Latin America.
Major Customers In 2018 and 2017, no single customer generated more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
Auditor Remuneration Auditor remuneration is as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Fees for audit services Group 2.2 1.8 Subsidiaries 1.4 1.5 Total fees for audit services 3.6 3.3 Fees for non-audit services Audit-related assurance services 0.5 0.6 Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 Total fees for non-audit services 0.6 0.7 Total auditor remuneration 4.2 4.0 7.
Staff Costs The following table details the average number of the Groups employees by function full and part time : 2018 2017 Operations 5,933 6,189 Sales and marketing 2,392 2,360 General and administrative 845 688 R&D 327 304 Total 9,497 9,541 The following table details the average number of the Groups employees by location full and part time : 2018 2017 EMEA 3,755 3,707 Americas 5,233 5,361 APAC 509 473 Total 9,497 9,541 148 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 7.
Staff Costs continued The following table details the Groups employees aggregate remuneration full and part time : 2017 a 2018 restated $m $m a Wages and salaries 386.2 369.2 b Share-based compensation 11.2 36.9 a Social security costs 51.1 44.6 Pension related costs 18.8 16.6 Recruitment and other employment related fees 5.9 4.6 Total 473.2 471.9 a Wages and salaries and social security costs in 2017 have been restated by increasing wages and salaries and reducing social security costs by $30.9 million to better reflect the categorisation of costs to these lines.
There is no overall impact on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
b Refer to Note 25 Share-Based Payments for further details.
The remuneration of the Directors is set out on pages 106 to 110 within the Remuneration Committee report described as being audited and forms part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Finance Costs Finance costs were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m a Interest expense on borrowings 63.6 54.8 b Amortisation of deferred financing fees and OID 4.9 4.8 Interest expense on finance leases 1.8 1.8 Interest income expense on interest rate swaps 4.0 1.8 Other income 1.1 1.1 Finance costs 65.2 62.1 a Refer to Note 20 Borrowings for further details.
b OID is original issue discount and represents the discount from par value at the time that a bond or other debt issue is issued.
Other Expense, net Other expense, net was as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m a Foreign exchange losses 2.9 23.8 b Gain on sale of assets 1.7 2.6 Other 0.1 0.5 Other expense, net 1.3 21.7 a The foreign exchange losses in 2018 and 2017 primarily relate to the foreign currency impact on intercompany transactions, including loans transacted in nonfunctional currencies.
The foreign exchange losses in 2017 also include foreign exchange losses as a result of hyperinflation accounting.
b The net gain on sale of assets in 2018 mainly relates to a gain on sale of the Groups manufacturing plant in Greensboro, US, partially offset by losses on the disposal of other assets.
The gain on sale of assets in 2017 relates to the sale of fully depreciated assets in Malaysia.
Tax on profit for the year Current tax on profit before income taxes in 2018 and 2017 is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, along with any change in the provision for deferred tax, and is inclusive of provision for uncertain tax positions: 2018 2017 $m $m Current UK current year charge 2.3 Overseas taxation 56.2 35.7 Adjustment for prior years 1.4 0.1 Total current tax expense 54.8 38.1 Deferred Origination and reversal of temporary differences 44.8 9.1 Change in tax rate 1.1 22.8 Adjustment for prior years 29.3 0.6 Total deferred tax benefit 75.2 32.5 Income tax benefit expense 20.4 5.6 149 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Income Taxes continued B. Reconciliation of effective tax rate Variance in effective tax rate The effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2018 was a benefit of 10.1%, as compared with an expense of 3.4% for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Included within the current tax expense for the year is a provision for uncertain tax positions of $10.5 million.
The majority of the remainder of the current tax expense is in respect of the current tax charge on taxable profits for the year in the various jurisdictions in which the Group is required to account for tax.
The current tax charge for the year is reduced by the impact of government tax incentives such as substancebased tax concessions, tax depreciation and the use of tax losses to reduce taxable profits.
These elements also reduce the overall effective tax rate of the Group to the extent that they do not have a corresponding deferred tax effect.
The most material deferred tax movements are the $44.8 million benefit included in origination and reversal of temporary differences and the $29.3 million adjustment for prior years, which drive the variance in the effective tax rate in 2018 when compared to 2017.
These consist of the recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets in the US of $35.0 million of which $30.6 million relates to an adjustment for prior years now recognised following the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on 22 December 2017.
The asset is offset against the deferred tax liability and arises because net operating losses carried forward became indefinite but limited to 80% of taxable income in any year and since deferred tax liabilities related to indefinite life assets can be used as a source of income when assessing indefinite loss carry forwards.
In addition, there was a release of a $30.4 million deferred tax liability in respect of unremitted earnings related to the Dominican Republic.
This arises as management reviewed the current overseas unremitted earnings position and concluded that it is unlikely that dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future in relation to the Dominican Republic unremitted earnings, which has resulted in the derecognition of the associated deferred tax liability.
The remaining $10.2 million benefit is primarily in relation to the amortisation of pre-2018 acquisition intangibles.
All these items generated a non-cash benefit to the Group in 2018.
Details of key items that affect the overall tax benefit for the year and the effective tax rate for the Group are shown in the note below.
Key factors influencing the effective tax rate 2018 2017 $m $m Profit before income taxes 201.2 164.0 Profit before tax multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19.00% 2017: 19.25% 38.2 31.5 Difference between UK and rest of world tax rates 6.8 10.4 Non-deductible non-taxable items 5.1 4.1 a Previously unrecognised losses and other assets 39.7 5.0 Amortisation of indefinite life intangibles 5.2 8.1 b Taxes on unremitted earnings 30.4 2.4 Deferred impact of tax rate changes 22.8 c Uncertain tax expense benefit 10.5 4.2 Other 2.5 3.3 Income tax benefit expense reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss at the effective tax rate 20.4 10.1 % 5.6 3.4% a previously unrecognised US deferred tax assets of $35.0 million of which $30.6 million relates to an adjustment for prior years.
b includes the deferred tax liability release in respect of the Dominican Republic.
c uncertain tax provisions are included in current tax liabilities.
The movement in uncertain tax provisions is included in the calculation of current tax liabilities and relates predominantly to transfer pricing positions and withholding tax liabilities.
The Groups tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of profits and its ability to utilise tax losses in the year in countries such as the US, UK, China and India.
Other key factors that influence the effective tax rate include tax incentives around the world such as substance-based tax concessions that the Group benefits from, changes in tax legislation and regulations in jurisdictions where the Group operates such as US Tax Reform following the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on 22 December 2017, and reduction of UK tax rates to 17%, evolving developments and implementation of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Developments Base Erosion and Profit Shifting OECDs BEPS actions by various jurisdictions impact on transfer pricing methodologies, unfavourable tax disputes and provision for uncertain tax positions.
150 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 10.
Income Taxes continued C. Movement in deferred tax balances Deferred tax is measured on the basis of the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
The UK corporate tax rate will reduce from 19% to 17% effective 1 April 2020.
The following table shows movements in the deferred tax assets and liabilities: Fixed Unremitted Inventory Losses assets Intangibles earnings Interest Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2017 17.0 0.4 7.8 144.5 33.0 2.3 170.2 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.5 1.0 9.3 0.5 10.6 Movement in Income Statements 5.1 2.7 0.5 36.0 2.4 1.4 32.5 Movement in OCI 0.2 0.2 Other 0.6 1.8 0.7 16.8 1.8 14.5 At 31 December 2017 11.0 9.0 134.6 30.6 0.6 162.6 Exchange adjustments 0.5 0.1 0.4 5.1 0.1 5.0 a Movement in Income Statements 2.0 53.1 6.2 41.7 30.4 14.5 10.7 75.2 Movement in OCI 1.4 1.4 Other 0.6 2.1 2.7 0.4 4.2 0.4 At 31 December 2018 13.1 53.2 4.5 173.9 0.6 14.5 14.0 84.2 a includes previously unrecognised US deferred tax assets of $35.0 million, of which $30.6 million relates to an adjustment for prior years.
The overall deferred tax analysis has been simplified compared to the prior year Consolidated Financial Statements to consolidate figures in relation to equity, employee benefits and others in the analysis above.
The total movement, which is a benefit of $78.4 million in the overall Group position on deferred tax, is attributable mainly to the $35.0 million of US tax assets recognised following the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on 22 December 2017, and the release of $30.4 million deferred tax liability in respect of unremitted earnings.
The remaining $10.2 million benefit is primarily in relation to amortisation of pre-2018 acquisition intangibles.
Other short term deferred tax balances of $14.0 million included in the closing deferred tax balance relate to miscellaneous items such as $5.3 million of foreign tax credits and a balance of $8.7 million in relation to other items that are expected to impact the Groups tax charge in the future.
D. Components of deferred tax assets and liabilities The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Deferred tax assets 22.9 9.6 Deferred tax liabilities 107.1 172.2 Net position at the end of the period 84.2 162.6 The $35.0 million movement in respect of the recognition of US tax deferred tax assets has been accounted for as a reduction in deferred tax liabilities which are in respect of indefinite life liabilities, rather than as an increase in deferred tax assets, as deferred tax assets are netted against deferred tax liabilities where they would offset and relate to the same tax authority.
E. Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are only recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on tax losses amounting to $1,984.9 million 2017: $2,217.4 million because it is unlikely that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can use the benefits.
Of the movement of $232.5 million of tax losses that are not recognised as deferred tax assets, $77.5 million is attributable to the exchange movements on the balances where the losses are not in US dollars and $236.9 million is attributable to the recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of Federal and State taxes as a result of the changes from the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted on 22 December 2017.
F. Tax losses carried forward The total amount of recognised and unrecognised tax losses carried forward is shown below: Gross Gross Corporation Corporation tax losses tax losses Corporation 2018 2017 tax losses Country $m $m expiration UK 34.5 17.6 Indefinite Luxembourg 1,565.5 1,640.1 Indefinite US Federal Tax 371.5 337.0 Various US State Taxes 221.7 196.9 Various Other overseas 50.5 44.6 Various Total losses 2,243.7 2,236.2 The movement in Luxembourg tax losses is mainly attributable to foreign exchange gains as these are euro-based losses.
151 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Dividends Settled Settled via pence per cents per Total in cash scrip No of scrip share share $m $m $m shares issued Interim dividend 2017 1.061 1.400 27.6 26.3 1.3 377,948 Paid in 2017 1.061 1.400 27.6 26.3 1.3 377,948 Final dividend 2017 3.094 4.300 81.7 55.3 26.4 9,623,305 Interim dividend 2018 1.309 1.717 33.6 19.6 14.0 4,681,820 Paid in 2018 4.403 6.017 115.3 74.9 40.4 14,305,125 Final dividend 2018 proposed 3.097 3.983 78.3 The Company operates a scrip dividend scheme allowing shareholders to elect to receive their dividend in the form of new fully paid ordinary shares.
For any particular dividend, the Directors may decide whether or not to make the scrip offer available.
The proposed final dividend for 2018 to be distributed on 16 May 2019 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 5 April 2019 is based upon the issued and fully paid share capital as at 31 December 2018 and is subject to shareholder approval at our Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2019.
The dividend will be declared in US dollar and will be paid in Sterling at the chosen exchange rate of $1.286 1.00 determined on 13 February 2019.
A scrip dividend alternative will be offered allowing shareholders to elect by 23 April 2019 to receive their dividend in the form of new ordinary shares.
The interim and final dividends for 2018 give a total dividend for the year of 5.700 cents per share 2017: 5.700 cents per share.
Earnings Per Share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share were calculated as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Net profit attributable to the equity holders of the Group 221.6 158.4 Number Number Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue net of shares purchased by the Company and held as Own shares 1,956,085,112 1,951,006,350 Dilutive impact of share awards 1,993,650 2,935,460 Diluted weighted average ordinary shares in issue 1,958,078,762 1,953,941,810 $ per share $ per share Basic earnings per share 0.11 0.08 Diluted earnings per share 0.11 0.08 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 11,407,025 2017: 5,231,000 share options that were non-dilutive for the year because the exercise price exceeded the average market price of the Groups ordinary shares during the year.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries J&R Medical LLC J&R Medical Description of the transaction On 1 March 2018, the Group acquired the entire share capital of J&R Medical for a total cash consideration of $14.6 million, including $0.2 million of the cash and cash equivalents acquired.
J&R Medical is an independent distributor of catheter-related supplies based in Texas.
The addition of J&R Medical to the Groups US home distribution group strengthens our home delivery presence in the substantial and important market of Texas.
The acquisition of J&R Medical further reinforces the Groups position as a leading home distributor of urinary catheters and continence-related supplies in the large US market.
152 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 13.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries continued J&R Medical LLC J&R Medical continued Assets acquired and liabilities assumed The transaction has been accounted for as a business combination under the acquisition method of accounting.
The following table summarises the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date: Fair values acquired $m Non-current assets a Intangible assets 7.8 Current assets b Trade and other receivables 1.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 Total assets 9.2 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 0.6 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 1.1 Total liabilities 1.7 Net assets acquired 7.5 c Initial cash consideration 12.3 d Deferred purchase consideration paid into escrow 2.3 Total consideration 14.6 e Goodwill arising on acquisition 7.1 2018 $m Analysis of cash outflow in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Initial cash consideration 12.3 Cash acquired on acquisition 0.2 Deferred purchase consideration paid into escrow 2.3 Net cash outflow on acquisition per Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 14.4 a The following table summarises the amounts and useful lives assigned to identifiable intangible assets: Amounts Weighted Recognised as of Average Useful Acquisition Date Lives $m Finite-lived intangible assets: Customer relationship 7 years 7.5 Indefinite-lived intangible assets: Trade name Indefinite-lived 0.3 Total Intangible Assets 7.8 b The fair value of receivables acquired approximates the amount of gross contractual receivables.
The amount of gross contractual receivables not expected to be recovered is immaterial.
c The initial cash consideration includes cash at closing of $0.2 million.
d $2.3 million was paid on closing into escrow as security for the due and punctual fulfilment by the seller of its obligations under the Securities Purchase Agreement.
The escrow account will be released to the seller on 1 September 2019. e Goodwill is calculated as the difference between the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The goodwill recorded represents the following: costs savings and operating synergies expected to result from combining the operations of J&R Medical with those of the Group: and intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition for instance, J&R Medicals assembled workforce.
Acquisition-related costs The Group incurred $0.5 million of transaction costs directly related to the J&R Medical acquisition through 31 December 2018, which include expenditures for advisory, legal, valuation, accounting, and other similar services.
These costs have been expensed as acquisitionrelated costs.
Revenue and net profit of J&R Medical The revenue of J&R Medical for the period from the acquisition date to 31 December 2018 was $8.6 million and net profit was $1.6 million.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, the Groups revenue would have been $1,833.8 million and net profit would have been approximately $222.0 million.
153 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Property, Plant and Equipment The major categories of property, plant and equipment PP&E and movement in the carrying value of each category is as follows: Building, building equipment Machinery, Land & land and leasehold equipment Construction improvements improvements and fixtures in progress Total $m $m $m $m $m Property, Plant & Equipment at Cost 1 January 2017 14.9 116.3 323.8 62.5 517.5 Additions 0.2 11.7 64.2 76.1 Acquisitions 1.1 2.1 3.1 6.3 Write-offs 0.3 8.7 9.0 Disposals 0.5 3.0 13.9 1.0 18.4 Transfers 16.4 38.4 54.8 Foreign exchange 1.3 9.5 28.5 4.7 44.0 31 December 2017 16.8 141.2 382.9 75.6 616.5 Additions 0.2 1.2 50.3 51.7 Write-offs 0.2 3.7 7.9 2.9 14.7 Disposals 1.0 7.1 8.0 16.1 Transfers 6.9 48.9 55.8 Foreign exchange 0.7 4.8 14.4 3.4 23.3 31 December 2018 14.9 132.7 402.7 63.8 614.1 Building, building equipment Machinery, Land & land and leasehold equipment Construction improvements improvements and fixtures in progress Total $m $m $m $m $m Accumulated Depreciation 1 January 2017 1.2 44.1 207.4 252.7 a Depreciation 0.1 7.7 26.8 34.6 Write-offs 0.1 8.4 8.5 Disposals 0.5 3.0 12.9 16.4 Foreign exchange 2.7 17.4 20.1 31 December 2017 0.8 51.4 230.3 282.5 Depreciation 0.1 6.7 30.6 37.4 Write-offs 0.2 3.6 7.5 11.3 Disposals 7.1 7.2 14.3 Foreign exchange 0.1 1.7 9.1 10.9 31 December 2018 0.6 45.7 237.1 283.4 a 2017 depreciation includes accelerated depreciation of $1.3 million related to the closure of certain manufacturing facilities.
Building, building equipment Machinery, Land & land and leasehold equipment Construction improvements improvements and fixtures in progress Total $m $m $m $m $m Net Carrying Amount 31 December 2017 16.0 89.8 152.6 75.6 334.0 31 December 2018 14.3 87.0 165.6 63.8 330.7 Building, building equipment and leasehold improvements, and Machinery, equipment and fixtures at 31 December 2018 include assets held under finance leases with a net carrying value of $20.9 million and $0.2 million, respectively 2017: $23.6 million and $0.4 million, respectively.
154 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 15.
Intangible Assets The major categories of intangible assets and the changes in the carrying value of each category were as follows: Contracts Patents, Acquired Internally and Nontrademarks capitalised generated customer compete Trade Development a and licenses Technology software software relationship agreements names costs Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Intangibles at Cost 1 January 2017 1,853.5 200.3 73.0 13.1 238.6 5.6 255.1 8.2 2,647.4 Additions 9.2 0.1 2.1 11.4 Acquisitions 12.5 40.9 2.5 55.9 b Foreign exchange 49.1 20.5 0.2 0.1 13.1 2.1 1.2 86.3 31 December 2017 1,902.6 233.3 73.2 22.4 292.7 5.6 259.7 11.5 2,801.0 Additions 0.1 0.3 11.4 0.4 1.2 13.4 c Acquisitions 7.5 0.3 7.8 Disposals 2.4 0.7 3.1 b Foreign exchange 31.8 10.6 0.2 0.1 5.3 0.1 0.8 0.6 49.5 31 December 2018 1,870.9 222.7 73.3 33.7 292.9 4.8 259.2 12.1 2,769.6 a Internally generated development costs.
b Primarily related to intangible assets denominated in Pound Sterling.
c See Note 13 Acquisition of Subsidiaries.
Contracts Patents, Acquired Internally and Nontrademarks capitalised generated customer compete Trade Development and licenses Technology software software relationship agreements names costs Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Accumulated Amortisation 1 January 2017 865.7 97.4 58.5 2.8 90.1 4.4 2.1 5.0 1,126.0 Amortisation 104.6 14.5 5.0 2.1 17.1 0.8 0.5 0.2 144.8 Foreign exchange 24.6 10.0 0.2 7.6 0.1 0.6 42.9 31 December 2017 994.9 121.9 63.7 4.9 114.8 5.1 2.6 5.8 1,313.7 Amortisation 105.6 15.1 4.8 3.4 21.8 0.3 0.5 1.1 152.6 Disposals 2.4 0.6 3.0 Foreign exchange 18.2 6.1 0.1 3.5 0.1 0.2 28.2 31 December 2018 1,082.3 130.9 68.4 8.3 130.7 4.8 3.0 6.7 1,435.1 Contracts Patents, Acquired Internally and Nontrademarks capitalised generated customer compete Trade Development and licenses Technology software software relationship agreements names costs Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Net Carrying Amount 31 December 2017 907.7 111.4 9.5 17.5 177.9 0.5 257.1 5.7 1,487.3 31 December 2018 788.6 91.8 4.9 25.4 162.2 256.2 5.4 1,334.5 The carrying amount of indefinite-lived trade names at 31 December 2018 was $254.3 million 2017: $254.7 million.
Each of these trade names is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the trade name and the level of marketing support.
The trade names are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the trade names is considered to be relatively low.
The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful lives.
Accordingly, these indefinite-lived trade names are not amortised.
The carrying values of indefinite-lived intangible assets i. e. indefinite-lived trade names allocated to each of the Groups CGUs see Note 16 Goodwill for definition of CGUs at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m CGUs Americas 236.2 234.6 a Home Distribution Group 2.8 4.1 ID 13.5 14.2 IS 1.8 1.8 Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets 254.3 254.7 a During the year the Group has aggregated the previously reported CGUs 180 Medical, Woodbury Catheter, Woodbury Incontinence and recent acquisition J&R Medical into the Home Distribution Group CGU as described in Note 16 Goodwill.
155 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15.
Intangible Assets continued In 2018 and 2017, the Group performed its annual CGU-based impairment tests in respect of indefinite-lived intangible assets and determined that none of its indefinite-lived intangible assets were impaired.
Refer to Note 16 Goodwill for details of the annual CGU-based impairment tests.
Amortisation expense related to finite-lived intangible assets for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Cost of sales 125.2 123.4 General and administrative expenses 26.3 21.2 Research and development expenses 1.1 0.2 Total amortisation expense 152.6 144.8 Individual intangible assets with a carrying value in excess of 10% of the total intangible asset carrying value were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Remaining life Trade names ConvaTec trade name 234.6 234.6 Indefinite Patents, trademarks and licenses a SUR-FIT Natura 200.5 200.5 7.6 years a Flexi-Seal 167.6 167.7 7.6 years a AQUACEL Ag 126.5 151.6 7.6 years a Amortisation of these assets in 2018 has been offset by foreign exchange differences on retranslation to year end exchange rates.
Goodwill The changes in the carrying value of goodwill for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Total $m I January 2017 921.0 Additions 80.6 Effect of foreign currency translation rates 70.6 31 December 2017 1,072.2 a Additions 7.1 Effect of foreign currency translation rates 36.3 31 December 2018 1,043.0 a Relates to the J&R Medical acquisition as described in Note 13 Acquisition of Subsidiaries.
The Group identifies CGUs at the operating company level as this represents the lowest level at which cash flows are largely independent of other cash flows.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the Groups CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The Group has identified six CGUs in applying the provisions of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: i Americas, ii Home Distribution Group HDG, iii EMEA, iv APAC, v Infusion Devices, and vi Industrial Sales.
During the year the Group has aggregated the previously reported CGUs 180 Medical, Woodbury Catheter, Woodbury Incontinence and recent acquisition J&R Medical into the HDG CGU.
The operations of the HDG CGU have been integrated during the year which resulted in HDG being the smallest group of assets generating independent cash flows.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGUs as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m CGUs Americas 15.3 15.3 HDG 321.1 315.8 EMEA 616.4 647.8 Infusion Devices 51.1 53.4 Industrial Sales 39.1 39.9 Goodwill 1,043.0 1,072.2 Impairment reviews were performed for each individual CGU during the year ended 31 December 2018.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations, which reflect the estimated future cash flows of each CGU discounted by an estimated weighted average cost of capital that represents the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
The discount rate is based on the weighted average cost of capital for comparable public companies and is adjusted for risks specific to the CGU including differences in risk due to size, geographic concentration and limited trading history.
156 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 16.
Goodwill continued Future cash flows are determined using Board approved forecasts and strategic plans.
These forecasts and strategic plans are based on specific assumptions for each CGU during the five year planning period with respect to revenue, results of operations, working capital, capital investments and other general assumptions for the projected period.
The forecast assumptions that derive the future cash flows are based on the historical results of each CGU combined with external market information and defined strategic initiatives.
Determining the estimated recoverable amount of a CGU is judgmental in nature and requires the use of certain estimated inputs that represent key sources of estimation uncertainty.
The key assumptions used in the estimation of value in use at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 Discount rate pre-tax % % Americas 12.0 11.5 EMEA 12.0 12.0 APAC 12.0 14.0 ID 12.0 12.5 IS 12.0 14.5 HDG 11.0 11.5 a Terminal value growth rate 2.0 2.0 a The estimated terminal value growth rate for the CGUs is based on expectations concerning the growth trends of the CGUs taking into account global gross domestic product growth, general long-term inflation and population expectations.
In 2018 and 2017, the Group performed its annual goodwill impairment tests and determined that there was no goodwill impairment.
Sensitivity testing identified no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of any CGU to exceed its recoverable amount taking into account areas of estimation uncertainty in the underlying assumptions.
The Group also performed impairment reviews on the basis of the previous CGUs 180 Medical, Woodbury Catheter, Woodbury Incontinence and J&R Medical and determined that there would not have been a goodwill impairment if the CGUs had not been aggregated.
Inventories The components of inventories at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Raw and packaging materials 77.4 77.2 Work in progress 33.0 29.5 Finished goods 192.9 177.8 Inventories 303.3 284.5 In 2018, inventories of $699.4 million were recognised as an expense and included in Cost of sales 2017: $685.2 million.
The adjustments to write-down inventory to net realisable value in 2018 were $22.8 million 2017: $11.8 million.
The write-downs are included in Cost of sales.
Trade and Other Receivables Trade and other receivables at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Trade receivables 283.4 298.9 Other receivables 8.1 12.6 Less: allowances for bad and doubtful debts 12.3 17.1 Less: sales discounts and chargebacks 25.5 25.4 Trade and other receivables 253.7 269.0 The Group establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts that represents its estimate of expected credit losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
The Group believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to reflect the related credit risk associated with the Groups accounts receivable.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables at 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Current 212.8 221.8 Past due 1 to 30 days 27.1 16.1 Past due 31 to 90 days 3.7 17.7 Past due 91 to 180 days 9.0 11.5 Past due by more than 180 days 30.8 31.8 283.4 298.9 157 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Trade and Other Receivables continued At 31 December 2018, the unimpaired amounts that are past due are $58.3 million 2017: $60.0 million aged as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Past due 1 to 30 days 27.0 15.9 Past due 31 to 90 days 3.6 17.5 Past due 91 to 180 days 8.4 10.4 Past due by more than 180 days 19.3 16.2 58.3 60.0 The Group believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due are still collectible in full, based on historic payment behaviour and extensive analysis of customer credit risk.
Movements in the allowance for bad and doubtful debts for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m At the beginning of the period 17.1 12.6 Charges 9.6 8.7 Utilisation of provision 13.9 4.9 Foreign exchange adjustment 0.5 0.7 At the end of the period 12.3 17.1 19.
Other Current Liabilities and Accruals The components of Other current liabilities and accruals at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Taxes and social security 17.6 20.7 Other employee related liabilities 40.2 43.7 Accruals 47.7 46.7 Deferred revenue 3.1 Other current liabilities and accruals 105.5 114.2 20.
Borrowings A summary of the Groups consolidated borrowings at 31 December 2018 and 2017 is outlined in the table below: 2018 2017 $m $m Credit Facilities Agreement: Revolving Credit Facility US Dollar Term A Loan Facility 706.7 743.3 Euro Term A Loan Facility 496.5 632.9 US Dollar Term B Loan Facility 417.6 421.1 Total borrowings from Credit Facilities 1,620.8 1,797.3 Finance lease obligations 23.7 25.6 Total borrowings 1,644.5 1,822.9 Less: Current portion of borrowings 63.0 78.2 Total non-current borrowings 1,581.5 1,744.7 Current borrowings at 31 December 2018 includes current finance lease obligations of $1.0 million 2017: $0.8 million and current borrowings of $62.0 million 2017: $77.4 million.
158 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 20.
Borrowings continued The terms and conditions of total borrowings outstanding at 31 December 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 2017 Carrying Carrying Year of Face value amount Face value amount Currency maturity $m $m $m $m a Revolving Credit Facilities 2021 a US Dollar Term A Loan Facility USD 2021 712.3 706.7 750.8 743.3 a b Euro Term A Loan Facility EURO 2021 500.9 496.5 639.1 632.9 a US Dollar Term B Loan Facility USD 2023 421.4 417.6 425.7 421.1 Finance lease obligations EURO USD 23.7 23.7 25.6 25.6 Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,658.3 1,644.5 1,841.2 1,822.9 a The current nominal interest rates for the Credit Facilities included in the table above are described below.
b Total face value of the borrowings outstanding under the Euro Term A Loan Facility denominated in euros was 436.8 million $500.9 million and 532.4 million $639.1 million at 31 December 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Groups Credit Facilities contain customary operating and negative covenants, including, among other things, covenants limiting: i incurrence of indebtedness: ii incurrence of liens: iii mergers, consolidations, liquidations, dissolutions and other fundamental changes: iv sales of assets: v dividends and other payments in respect of capital stock or junior debt subject to an available amount built by consolidated net income: vi acquisitions: vii transactions with affiliates: viii changes in fiscal year: ix negative pledge clauses and clauses restricting subsidiary distributions: and x holding companies.
The Groups Credit Facilities also contain a financial covenant, various customary affirmative covenants and specified events of default.
At 31 December 2018 and 2017, the Group was in compliance with all financial and non-financial covenants associated with the Groups outstanding debt.
Credit Facilities On 25 October 2016, the Group entered into the Credit Agreement the Credit Agreement with various financial institutions the Financing.
The Credit Agreement provides for i Term A loans denominated in US dollar of $770.0 million and euros of 546.0 million $594.7 million at 25 October 2016 the Term A Loan Facilities, ii Term B loans denominated in US dollar of $430.0 million issued at an offering price of 99.5%, after adjustment for a discount of $2.2 million the Term B Loan Facility and together with the Term A Loan Facilities, the Term Loan Facilities and iii a $200.0 million revolving credit facility the Revolving Credit Facility, and together with the Term Loan Facilities, the Credit Facilities.
The Term A Loan Facilities are repayable in semi-annual instalments commencing 30 June 2017 in aggregate annual amounts equal to i 2.5% in year one, ii 5.0% in year two, iii 7.5% in year three, iv 10.0% in year four, and v 7.5% in year five, in each case of the original principal amount of the Term A Loan Facilities.
The Term A Loan Facilities mature in October 2021.
The Term B Loan Facility is repayable in semi-annual instalments commencing 30 June 2017 in an aggregate annual amount equal to 1.0% of the original principal amount of the Term B Loan Facility.
Interest on outstanding principal under the Credit Facilities is payable quarterly in arrears.
The Term B Loan Facility matures in October 2023.
The Revolving Credit Facility of $200.0 million is available to its termination date in certain currencies US dollar, euro and pounds sterling at the borrowers option and is used to provide for ongoing working capital requirements, letters of credit, and general corporate purposes of the Group.
The Revolving Credit Facility allows for up to $50.0 million of letter of credit issuances as well as $25.0 million for borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as the swingline loans.
There were no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility at 31 December 2018 and 2017.
Availability at 31 December 2018 under the Revolving Credit Facility, after deducting letters of credit of $6.2 million 2017: $7.1 million, was $193.8 million 2017: $192.9 million.
The Credit Agreement also provides for the ability of the Group to enter into incremental term facilities the Incremental Term Facilities and incremental revolving facilities the Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities and to issue senior secured, senior unsecured, senior subordinated or subordinated notes the Incremental Notes and together with the Incremental Term Facilities and the Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities, the Incremental Facilities.
The Incremental Term Facilities and Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities are subject to certain conditions and are available in i a cashcapped amount equal to the greater of $475 million and consolidated EBITDA as of the end of the most recently ended two half-fiscal year period, provided that the consolidated total net leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement does not exceed 4.00 to 1.00, ii an unlimited amount so long as the maximum total leverage requirement as defined in the Credit Agreement is satisfied, and iii an amount equal to all voluntary prepayments or repurchases under the Term Loan Facilities and voluntary prepayments under the Revolving Credit Facility to the extent accompanied by a corresponding permanent reduction in the revolving commitments such sum, the Incremental Amount, in US dollars and or euro and, in the case of the Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities, pounds sterling, provided that the Group satisfies certain other requirements, including: no default or event of default, minimum borrowing amounts of $15.0 million and, in respect of Incremental Term Facilities, a maturity date and weighted average life to maturity of each individual loan within the Incremental Term Facilities that is greater than the weighted average maturity date of the Term Loan Facilities and if shorter, shall not have an amortisation of greater than 5.0% per annum.
Additionally, should the yield on any Incremental Term Facility exceed the interest margin on the Term Loan Facilities denominated in the same currency by more than 0.50%, then the yield on the applicable Term Loan Facilities will automatically increase such that the yield on such Term Loan Facilities denominated in the same currency shall be 0.50% below the yield on the applicable Incremental Term Facilities.
Any loan advances made under the Incremental Term Facilities will rank pari passu with or junior to the Term Loan Facilities and the Revolving Credit Facility.
The Incremental Notes shall not exceed the Incremental Amount and are available in US dollars and euro, provided that the Group satisfies certain other requirements, including: no default or event of default and the issuance shall be in an amount of no more than $15.0 million or its equivalent.
159 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Borrowings continued Credit Facilities continued Subject to certain conditions, the Group may voluntarily prepay their utilisations under the Credit Facilities in a minimum amount of $1.0 million or its equivalent for term loans or revolving facilities.
Amounts repaid under the Term Loan Facilities may not be re-borrowed.
In 2018, the Group made voluntary prepayments of $95.0 million on the euro Term A Loan 2017: nil.
In addition to voluntary prepayments, the Credit Agreement requires mandatory prepayment in full or in part in certain circumstances including, in relation to the Term Loan Facilities and subject to certain criteria, from the proceeds of asset sales in excess of $20.0 million and the issuance or incurrence of debt and from excess cash flow.
In 2018, the Group made mandatory prepayments of $2.4 million 2017: nil.
In 2018, the Group made scheduled loan amortisation payments related to the Credit Facilities of $56.3 million 2017: $39.6 million.
Borrowings under the Credit Facilities bear interest at either EURIBOR rate, Eurodollar rate, or an Alternate Base Rate ABR, in each case, plus an applicable margin.
Under the Term Loan Facilities, EURIBOR interest is associated with the borrowings in euros: while LIBOR and ABR interest is associated with borrowings in US dollar.
EURIBOR, Eurodollar or ABR interest rates may apply to any outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.
ABR, as defined in the Credit Agreement, is the greater of a the Prime Rate, b the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.50% or c the Eurodollar Rate for a one month interest period plus 1.00%, provided that the ABR for the Term Loan Facilities may not be less than 1.00%.
The Eurodollar rate is subject to a floor of 0.75% per annum in respect of the Term B Loan Facility and 0.00% per annum in respect of all other loans.
The margins applicable to the Term A Loan Facilities denominated in euro range from 2.0% to 2.25% and the margins applicable to the Term A Loan Facilities denominated in US dollar range from 1.0% to 1.25% if using ABR and 2.0% to 2.25% if using the Eurodollar rate and the margins applicable to the Term B Loan Facility range from 1.25% to 1.50% if using ABR and 2.25% to 2.50% if using the Eurodollar rate, in each case, with the relevant step-down in margin occurring depending on the relevant first lien net leverage ratio.
Interest Related Information Accrued interest related to the Groups borrowings in 2018 was $0.2 million 2017: $0.7 million and is recorded in Other current liabilities and accruals.
The weighted average interest rate for borrowings under the Groups outstanding borrowings in 2018 was 3.5% 2017: 3.1%.
Finance Lease Obligations The table below presents total obligations under finance leases at 31 December 2018 and 2017: Minimum lease Present value of lease payments payments 2018 2017 2018 2017 $m $m $m $m Amount payable: Within 1 year 2.7 2.7 1.0 0.8 1 to 5 years inclusive 11.3 11.5 5.3 4.9 After 5 years 23.0 27.1 17.4 19.9 37.0 41.3 23.7 25.6 Less: future finance charges 13.3 15.7 Total obligations under finance leases 23.7 25.6 23.7 25.6 Reconciliation of Liabilities Arising from Financing Activities Debt assumed on Cash Foreign Non-cash 2017 acquisition flows exchange movements 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m Borrowings 1,797.3 153.7 27.1 4.3 1,620.8 Finance lease obligations 25.6 0.8 1.1 23.7 Total liabilities from financing activities 1,822.9 154.5 28.2 4.3 1,644.5 Debt assumed on Cash Foreign Non-cash 2016 acquisition flows exchange movements 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Borrowings 1,752.6 31.3 70.9 80.0 4.3 1,797.3 Finance lease obligations 23.0 0.6 3.2 25.6 Total liabilities from financing activities 1,775.6 31.3 71.5 83.2 4.3 1,822.9 160 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 21.
Provisions Decommissioning Legal Restructuring and Dilapidation a a b Provisions Provisions Provisions Total $m $m $m $m 1 January 2017 0.1 9.3 1.1 10.5 Charges 1.0 0.4 1.4 Utilisation 0.1 7.3 7.4 Changes in estimate 0.8 0.8 Foreign exchange impact 0.1 0.1 31 December 2017 2.2 1.6 3.8 Charges 7.9 7.9 Utilisation 5.3 0.1 5.4 Changes in estimate 0.3 0.3 Foreign exchange impact 31 December 2018 4.5 1.5 6.0 a Legal and Restructuring provisions for all years presented in the above table are included as current Provisions on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
b Decommissioning provisions represent the estimated costs of dismantling and removing PP&E, and restoring the site on which it was located when an item is acquired or as a consequence of using the item during a particular period other than to produce inventory.
Dilapidation provisions relate to legal obligations to return leased properties to the conditions which are specified in the individual leases.
Decommissioning and Dilapidation provisions at 31 December 2018 and 2017 are included as non-current Provisions on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Legal Provisions Legal provisions represent provisions for unsettled lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations.
Restructuring Provisions The Group incurred restructuring charges related to employee termination benefits for involuntary workforce reduction relating to 2018 and 2017 initiatives.
Other Non-Current Liabilities The major components of Other non-current liabilities at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2017 b 2018 restated $m $m a Defined benefit obligation 15.1 13.5 Employee costs 4.1 4.0 Other 3.0 2.6 Other non-current liabilities 22.2 20.1 a Refer to Note 26 Post-employment Benefits for further details.
b 2017 has been restated to reclassify a $15.4 million provision for uncertain tax positions from Other non-current liabilities to current liabilities Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies.
Share Capital and Reserves Share capital The share capital recognised as equity comprised ordinary shares issued and fully paid or credited as fully paid at 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Issued and fully paid or credited as fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each 240.7 238.8 The movements in ordinary shares in issue were as follows: Share Ordinary shares Share capital premium Issued and fully paid or credited as fully paid number $m $m 1 January 2017 1,951,472,651 238.8 1,674.1 Issue of new shares for the Scrip Scheme 377,948 1.3 Capital reduction of share premium 1,674.1 31 December 2017 1,951,850,599 238.8 1.3 Issue of new shares for the Scrip Scheme 2017 final dividend 9,623,305 1.3 25.1 Issue of new shares for the Scrip Scheme 2018 interim dividend 4,681,820 0.6 13.4 31 December 2018 1,966,155,724 240.7 39.8 The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are uniform in all respects, they form a single class for all purposes, including with respect to voting and for all dividends and other distributions thereafter declared, made or paid on the ordinary share capital of the Group.
161 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Share Capital and Reserves continued Share premium The share premium represents amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares.
In February 2017, the Company carried out a capital reduction, converting share premium of $1,713.7 million to distributable reserves.
As part of this capital reduction, expenses of issue of equity shares which had been offset against the same share premium balance have also been taken to retained earnings.
The net impact of the capital reduction exercise resulted in distributable earnings being increased by $1,674.1 million.
Own Shares Own shares are ordinary shares in the Group purchased and held by an Employee Benefit Trust to fulfil the Companys obligations under the Groups share plans.
At 31 December 2018, 2,531,339 shares 2017: 4,204,211 shares were held in an Employee Benefit Trust.
The market value of Own shares at 31 December 2018 was $4.5 million 2017: $8.2 million.
Distributable reserves Retained distributable reserves equates to the retained surplus of ConvaTec Group Plc as set out in the company only financial statements, pages 172 to 179 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
At 31 December 2018, the retained surplus of ConvaTec Group Plc was $1,574.7 million 2017: $1,622.7 million.
The capacity of the Company to make dividend payments is primarily determined by the availability of these retained distributable reserves and cash resources.
The Group, post the 2017 capital reduction, principally derives distributable reserves from dividends paid by subsidiary companies and availability of cash.
Merger reserve In 2016, the Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared under merger accounting principles.
Under these principles, no acquirer was required to be identified and all entities were included at their pre-combination carrying amounts.
This accounting treatment lead to differences on consolidation between share capital in issue and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired, this difference is included within equity as a merger reserve.
Cumulative translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Other reserves Other reserves in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity are comprised of the following: 1 January Change 31 December 2018 in year 2018 $m $m $m Issuance of shares under share-based compensation plans 67.5 67.5 Share-based payments 37.7 11.2 48.9 Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation 0.2 0.1 0.3 Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation, net of tax 2.2 1.0 3.2 Recognition of pension assets restriction 6.1 0.4 5.7 Share awards vested 1.5 1.3 2.8 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax 5.7 2.6 8.3 Other reserves 101.3 12.0 113.3 1 January Change 31 December 2017 in year 2017 $m $m $m Issuance of shares under share-based compensation plans 67.5 67.5 Share-based payments 0.8 36.9 37.7 Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation 0.2 0.2 Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation, net of tax 4.6 2.4 2.2 Recognition of pension assets restriction 6.3 0.2 6.1 Share awards vested 1.5 1.5 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax 5.7 5.7 Other reserves 57.4 43.9 101.3 162 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 24.
Commitments and Contingencies Operating Leases Future minimum rental commitments under all non-cancellable operating leases in effect at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Within 1 year 20.7 20.2 After 1 and within 5 years 34.8 32.9 After 5 years 6.4 8.3 Total 61.9 61.4 Certain lease agreements, primarily for real estate, contain renewal options and rent escalation clauses.
Operating lease rental expense for 2018 was $24.8 million 2017: $23.4 million.
The estimated impact of adopting IFRS 16 in 2019 is set out in Note 2 Accounting Standards.
Other Commitments The Group had commitments related to capital expenditures of $10.2 million at 31 December 2018 2017: $12.9 million which primarily related to manufacturing equipment for new products and capacity expansions.
Legal Proceedings The nature of the Groups business exposes it to a variety of product liability, regulatory and IP claims and is required on occasion to recall or withdraw products from the market.
Such instances are endemic to the medical device industry.
The Group makes appropriate provision for liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities in accordance with its accounting policies, using informed and unbiased management judgement based on the best available information at the time.
However, it is not always possible to predict outcomes and additional facts may become known.
As a result, provision amounts and contingency disclosures are subject to revision over time.
In accordance with the accounting guidance related to contingencies, the Group records provisions for liabilities when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.
Legal costs related to litigation matters are expensed as incurred.
Liability Claims In September 2017, Medtronic MiniMed, Inc. Medtronic, issued a recall of certain infusion sets, including the Quick-Set and Silhouette infusion sets.
The Quick-Set and Silhouette infusion sets include P-Cap connectors designed by Medtronic and manufactured for Medtronic by the Group for use with Medtronic insulin infusion pumps in diabetes care.
Medtronic modified the design of P-Cap connectors, which we have integrated into the infusion set design.
Medtronic previously issued a recall of Quick-Set and Silhouette infusion sets in June 2013.
Medtronic issued this recall due to a potential safety issue that can occur if insulin or other fluids meet the inside of the tubing P-Cap connector.
The June 2013 recall has resulted in pending or threatened litigation against several of the Groups entities.
These lawsuits allege that the infusion sets are defective and have caused injuries or death to various plaintiffs.
All of these cases also include claims against Medtronic, and allegations that their insulin pumps which the Group does not make or sell are defective.
To the best of the Groups knowledge, as of this report date, approximately twentytwo product liability lawsuits had been filed.
The Groups entities have been voluntarily dismissed without prejudice from twelve of these lawsuits and dismissed with prejudice from two lawsuits that have been settled.
The Group has sent a demand to Medtronic seeking indemnification for these lawsuits consistent with the terms of the agreements between them.
To date, Medtronic has rejected this demand.
The Group also carries product liability insurance, subject to a self-insured retention, and has notified the insurance carrier about these lawsuits.
The remaining pending lawsuits are all in their early stages.
At this point the Group is unable to predict the likelihood of an unfavourable outcome or estimate any potential loss.
Share-Based Payments Summary of schemes The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes granting share awards or options to Executive Directors and other senior employees: The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP provides Performance Share Plan PSP awards subject to performance conditions and Restricted Stock Units RSU subject only to remaining employed up to the vesting date.
The Deferred Bonus Plan DBP provides for the grant of share awards to defer a portion of the participants bonus as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The awards vest subject only to remaining employed up to the vesting date.
The Matching Share Plan MSP provides for the grant of discretionary share awards calculated as a proportion of the participants bonus.
The awards granted in 2018 are subject to the same performance conditions as the LTIP PSP awards.
The awards granted in 2017 vest subject only to remaining employed up to the vesting date.
The Transition Awards were made on a one-off basis shortly after listing in 2016 and consisted of market value options and restricted shares.
The final tranche will vest in November 2019 subject to remaining employed up to the vesting date.
The Management Executive Plan MEP relates to awards granted before the listing in 2016 and which became fully vested in 2018.
163 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Share-Based Payments continued Summary of schemes continued The Group also operates the Employee Plans which provide eligible employees the opportunity to save up to 500 per month or local currency equivalent and give them an option to acquire shares using these savings at a 15% discount to the market price at date of grant.
The Employee Plans are available to employees under the following schemes: the Save-As-You-Earn SAYE plan is available to all employees in the UK employed by participating Group companies: the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP is available to all employees in the US: and the International Share Save Plan is available to all employees in the rest of the world.
Details on each scheme are given in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 113 and 114.
The total share-based compensation was all equity-settled and the expense recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss was as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m MEP 5.9 29.3 LTIP 2.5 6.1 DBP 0.1 MSP 1.1 0.8 Employee Plans 1.6 0.7 11.2 36.9 Awards outstanding The movements in the number of share awards and share options and the weighted average exercise price of share options are detailed below: 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average shares exercise price shares exercise price options of options options of options 000s per share 000s per share Outstanding at 1 January 14,413 1.46 7,937 0.98 Granted 15,771 0.65 12,096 1.28 Forfeited 4,406 1.22 2,287 0.98 Exercised 477 3,333 Outstanding at 31 December 25,301 1.04 14,413 1.46 Exercisable at 31 December 1,702 2.09 1,016 2.11 Weighted average fair value of awards granted per share 0.86 0.97 The average share price during 2018 was 1.99 2017: 2.65.
The range of exercise prices of the share awards outstanding at 31 December and the weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at 31 December are as follows: 2018 2017 Number of Number of shares shares options options Range of exercise prices 000s 000s nil 13,894 6,599 1.84 5,266 2.49 2,067 2,583 2.78 4,074 5,231 25,301 14,413 Weighted average remaining contractual life of share options 1.9 years 2.2 years 164 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 25.
Share-Based Payments continued Valuation assumptions The following share awards granted in 2017 and 2018 are valued directly by reference to the share price at date of grant: PSP shares issued under the LTIP and 2018 MSP shares that are subject to an EPS or ROIC performance condition: RSU, DBP, 2017 MSP shares which are subject only to continued employment.
PSP shares awarded under the LTIP and 2018 MSP shares that are subject to a relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance condition are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation.
Options granted under the Employee Plans are valued using the Black-Scholes model.
The principal assumptions used in these valuations were: 2018 2017 SAYE & SAYE & LTIP and MSP International International with TSR Share Save LTIP with TSR Share Save condition Plan ESPP condition Plan ESPP Share price at date of grant 2.08 2.09 2.19 2.51 2.99 2.99 Exercise price nil 1.84 1.84 nil 2.78 2.78 Expected life 2.8 years 3.6 years 2.0 years 2.8 years 3.3 years 2.3 years Expected volatility 30.2% 31.6% 31.8% 24.6% 22.6% 23.1% Risk free rate 0.8% 0.8% 0.6% 0.2% 0.5% 0.4% Dividend yield n a 1.9% 1.9% n a 1.4% 1.4% Fair value 0.98 0.26 0.26 0.88 0.52 0.47 26.
Post-employment Benefits Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a wide range of retirement benefit arrangements, which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
These include funded defined contribution and funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes.
Defined contribution arrangements The Group operates several defined contribution arrangements where the employer contribution and the resulting charge to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employees pay.
Contributions made to defined contribution schemes and charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in 2018 totalled $16.3 million 2017: $14.7 million.
Defined benefit arrangements The Group operates several defined benefit schemes covering certain international employees where the benefits are based on employees length of service.
Whilst the Groups primary schemes are funded and partially funded schemes in the UK and Switzerland, respectively, it also operates other unfunded benefit schemes in Germany, Austria and France referred to as Other in the tables below.
The UK scheme is closed to new participants and closed to future benefit accruals.
The Switzerland scheme is still being funded and under the Switzerland pension plan, the estimated contributions to be paid within the next year are $0.8 million.
In funded arrangements, the assets of defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds or similar structures in the countries concerned.
The asset surplus within the UK plan at 31 December 2018 of $5.7 million 2017: $6.4 million has been restricted in accordance with IFRIC Interpretation 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction and has been recorded within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The schemes typically expose the Group to actuarial risks such as: Investment risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference to high quality corporate bond yields: if the return on plan assets is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit.
Currently the plan invests primarily in debt instruments.
Interest risk A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability but this will be partially offset by an increase in the return on the plans debt investments.
Longevity risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plans liability.
Salary risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participants.
As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plans liability.
165 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
Post-employment Benefits continued Defined benefit arrangements continued Actuarial Assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions for each defined benefit arrangement used at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: UK Switzerland Other 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Discount rate 2.75% 2.40% 1.00% 0.80% 1.50% to 2.39% 1.20% to 2.00% Rate of price inflation 2.45% 2.30% 0.50% 0.50% 2.00% 1.70% to 2.00% Future salary increases N A N A 1.75% 1.75% 2.00% to 3.00% 2.00% to 3.00% Actuarial assumptions regarding future mortality are based on mortality tables.
The current longevities underlying the values of the obligations in the defined benefit plans are as follows: UK Switzerland Other 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Life expectancy at Plan retirement age Male 23.3 years 23.2 years 22.6 years 22.4 years 20.7 years 20.0 years Female 24.3 years 24.2 years 25.6 years 25.4 years 24.3 years 23.8 years Life expectancy at Plan retirement age in 20 years time Male 24.7 years 24.6 years 24.3 years 24.3 years 23.1 years 21.8 years Female 25.8 years 25.8 years 27.3 years 27.2 years 26.2 years 25.5 years Net Pension Liabilities The amount recognised for each defined benefit arrangement in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Fair value of schemes assets 15.6 18.6 8.0 5.9 23.6 24.5 Present value of funded schemes liabilities 9.9 12.2 12.1 9.0 22.0 21.2 Surplus deficit in the funded schemes 5.7 6.4 4.1 3.1 1.6 3.3 Present value of unfunded schemes liabilities 11.0 10.4 11.0 10.4 Restrict recognition of asset 5.7 6.4 5.7 6.4 Net pension assets liability 4.1 3.1 11.0 10.4 15.1 13.5 Plan Assets Plan assets for each defined benefit arrangement, all of which are quoted, consist of the following at 31 December 2018 and 2017: UK Switzerland Other Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Equity instruments 2.1 1.6 2.1 1.6 Debt instruments 15.6 18.6 3.4 2.5 19.0 21.1 Property 0.8 0.6 0.8 0.6 Other 1.7 1.2 1.7 1.2 Plan assets 15.6 18.6 8.0 5.9 23.6 24.5 The movements in the fair value of plan assets during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 18.6 18.2 5.9 4.8 24.5 23.0 Interest income on plan assets 0.4 0.5 0.1 0.6 0.5 1.1 Remeasurement loss 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.2 Contributions paid by employer 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.5 Contributions paid by members 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.5 Benefits paid deposited 2.0 1.7 0.9 0.5 1.1 2.2 Risk insurance premium 0.2 0.2 Currency translation adjustment 1.1 1.8 0.1 0.2 1.2 2.0 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 15.6 18.6 8.0 5.9 23.6 24.5 166 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 26.
Post-employment Benefits continued Defined benefit arrangements continued Benefit Obligations The movements in the defined benefit obligation during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 12.2 11.9 9.0 8.9 10.4 9.0 31.6 29.8 Current service cost 1.5 0.9 0.8 0.8 2.3 1.7 Past service cost 0.2 0.1 0.1 Interest cost 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.5 Contributions by members 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.5 Remeasurement gain loss 0.2 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.8 0.4 1.7 0.5 Benefit paid deposited 2.0 1.7 0.9 0.5 0.2 0.1 1.3 2.3 Experience loss gain 0.2 0.1 0.8 0.5 1.1 0.4 2.1 0.8 Risk insurance premium 0.2 0.2 Currency translation adjustment 0.8 1.1 0.1 0.5 0.5 1.3 1.4 2.9 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 9.9 12.2 12.1 9.0 11.0 10.4 33.0 31.6 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the year is 16 years 2017: 16 years.
The history of experience adjustments related to the defined benefit obligation were as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Defined benefit obligation at end of year 9.9 12.2 12.1 9.0 11.0 10.4 33.0 31.6 Experience adjustment on schemes liabilities 0.2 0.1 0.8 0.5 1.1 0.4 2.1 0.8 Experience adjustment as a percentage of schemes liabilities 2.0% 0.8% 6.6% 5.6 % 10.0% 3.8 % 6.4% 2.5 % Expense in Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss The aggregate expense for all defined benefit plans recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 was as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Current service cost 2.3 1.7 a Past service cost 0.1 Interest income on plan assets 0.5 0.3 Interest expense on defined benefit obligation 0.6 0.5 Total expense 2.5 1.9 a Past service cost in 2018 includes an adjustment for the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension benefits between men and women in the UK following a High Court ruling in October 2018.
The 2018 plan expense of $2.5 million 2017: $1.9 million was included in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as Cost of sales $0.3 million 2017: $0.3 million, Selling and distribution expenses $1.5 million 2017: $1.0 million, and General and administrative expenses $0.7 million 2017: $0.6 million.
Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Loss Income Aggregate actuarial gains and losses for all defined benefit plans recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Remeasurement effects recognised in Other comprehensive income: Actuarial loss gain on liabilities due to experience 2.1 0.8 Actuarial gain arising from changes in financial assumptions 1.7 0.5 Actuarial loss on assets 0.5 0.1 Remeasurement loss gain recognised in Other comprehensive income 0.9 1.2 Deferred tax on remeasurement loss gain recognised in Other comprehensive income 0.1 1.6 Recognition of the pension assets restriction 0.4 0.2 Currency translation adjustment 0.4 Total amount recognised in Other comprehensive income 0.6 2.6 167 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
Post-employment Benefits continued Defined benefit arrangements continued Sensitivity Analysis The effect of an increase or decrease in the key actuarial assumptions related to the UK and Switzerland plans at 31 December 2018 would be to increase decrease the defined benefit obligations as follows: 2018 $m Increase Decrease 0.5% 0.5% UK plan Discount Rate 0.7 0.7 Inflation 0.5 0.5 1 year 1 year increase decrease Life expectancy 0.4 0.4 2018 $m Increase Decrease 0.25% 0.25% Switzerland plan Discount Rate 0.6 0.6 Inflation 0.2 0.2 1 year 1 year increase decrease Life expectancy 0.2 0.2 27.
Financial Instruments Policy The Groups treasury policies seek to minimise financial risks and to ensure sufficient liquidity for the Groups operations and strategic plans.
No complex derivative financial instruments are used, and no trading or speculative transactions in financial instruments are undertaken.
Where the Group does use financial instruments these are mainly to manage the currency risks arising from normal operations and its financing.
Operations are financed mainly through term loans and retained profits.
The Groups policies have remained unchanged since the beginning of the year.
Detail of the significant policies and methods adopted for each class of financial asset and financial liability are disclosed in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies.
Capital risk management The Group seeks to manage its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 20 Borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and equity of the Group, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Financial risk management objectives Based on the operations of the Group throughout the world, the Directors consider that the key financial risks that it faces are liquidity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, and credit risk.
The objectives under each of these risks are as follows: Liquidity risk: ensure adequate funding to support working capital and future capital expenditure requirements.
Currency risk: reduce exposure to foreign exchange movements principally between the US dollar and the euro, pound sterling and Danish Krone DKK.
Interest rate risk: mitigate risk of significant change in market rates on the cash flow of issued variable rate debt.
Credit risk: minimise the risk of default and concentration discussed in Note 18 Trade and Other Receivables and in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies Trade and Other Receivables.
168 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 27.
Financial Instruments continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring actual and projected cash outflows to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Groups financial liabilities by contractual maturity date, excluding interest payments were as follows: Contractual cash flows Within 1 year More than Carrying or on demand 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total amount $m $m $m $m $m $m 31 December 2018 Borrowings 62.0 112.6 1,459.9 1,634.5 1,620.8 Finance lease obligations 2.7 2.8 8.5 23.0 37.0 23.7 Trade and other payables 116.0 116.0 116.0 31 December 2017 Borrowings 77.4 110.7 1,223.3 404.1 1,815.5 1,797.3 Finance lease obligations 2.7 2.8 8.7 27.1 41.3 25.6 Trade and other payables 122.0 122.0 122.0 The contractual maturities of borrowings excluding finance lease obligations, inclusive of interest payments were as follows: Contractual cash flows Within 1 year More than or on demand 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total a Borrowings, including interest $m $m $m $m $m 31 December 2018 118.8 171.0 1,549.0 1,838.8 31 December 2017 135.4 165.8 1,332.9 417.5 2,051.6 a Assumes repayment of the principal amount of debt obligations at maturity.
Additionally, if the Group was fully drawn against the $200.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, the cash interest payments for 2018 would have increased by approximately $9.6 million 2017: $7.4 million.
Currency risk The Group manufactures and sells its products in various countries around the world and as a result of the global nature of the operations, it is exposed to market risk arising from changes in currency exchange rates: however the Groups foreign currency risk is diversified.
The Groups primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, pound sterling, and Danish Krone DKK.
Where possible, the Group manages foreign currency risk by matching same currency revenues to same currency expenses and strategically denominating its debt in certain functional currencies in order to match with the projected functional currency exposures within its operations thereby minimising foreign currency risk.
As a result, the impact of the fluctuations in the market values of assets and liabilities and the settlement of foreign currency transactions are reduced.
Significant increases in the value of the US dollar relative to foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations.
Assets and liabilities are converted based on the exchange rate at the period end, and Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss items are converted based on the average exchange rate during the period.
Foreign exchange gains or losses on transactions that are to be settled in a currency that is not the functional currency of the transacting entity are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss at each remeasurement date or settlement date.
Additionally, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not US dollar are translated into US dollars at the exchange rate at each reporting date.
Any cumulative translation difference is recorded within equity.
The following exchange rates for the major currencies have been applied at 31 December 2018 and 2017: Average rate Currency Closing rate 2018 2017 EUR USD Average 1.18 1.13 Closing 1.15 1.20 GBP USD Average 1.34 1.29 Closing 1.28 1.35 DKK USD Average 0.16 0.15 Closing 0.15 0.16 169 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Financial Instruments continued Currency risk continued Sensitivity analysis on currency risk The most significant exposure to foreign currency risk relates to certain borrowings.
A reasonably possible 10% fluctuation of the US dollar against the euro applied to borrowings from third parties existing at 31 December 2018 would have affected equity by the amounts shown below.
This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the reporting date and had been applied to borrowings from third parties existing at that date.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any tax impact.
Equity $m 10% strengthening of USD compared to EUR 50.1 10% weakening of USD compared to EUR 50.1 Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to interest rate cash flow risk.
Currency and Nature of Interest Rate of the Nominal Value of Borrowings The currency and rate structure of the Groups borrowings at face value at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 2018 2017 Currency structure $m % $m % USD 1,133.9 68 1,176.8 64 EUR 524.4 32 664.4 36 Total 1,658.3 100 1,841.2 100 Rate structure Fixed 23.7 1 25.6 1 Floating 1,634.6 99 1,815.6 99 Total 1,658.3 100 1,841.2 100 Sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk The loans under the Groups Credit Facilities bear interest at floating rates equal to LIBOR, EURIBOR, or ABR, as adjusted periodically, plus a spread.
Before the effect of interest rate swaps, a plus minus change of 1% in the interest rates in effect on 31 December 2018 would have a negative positive impact on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and on equity of $16.3 million 2017: $18.2 million assuming that all other variables remain constant and ignoring any tax effect.
The Group manages this risk centrally by using interest rate swaps to maintain an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings.
Derivative financial assets Derivative financial assets consist of interest rate swaps.
As noted above, the Group has variable rate debt instruments and is exposed to market risks resulting from interest rate fluctuations.
In order to manage its exposure to variability in expected future cash outflows attributable to the changes in LIBOR rates on the US Dollar Term A and Term B Loan Facility, in May 2017, the Group entered into interest rate swap agreements.
At 31 December 2018, the notional amount of the interest rate swap agreements was $833.8 million 2017: $882.0 million.
The Group interest rate swaps do not contain credit-risk related contingent features and are not subject to master netting arrangements.
The interest rate swaps are designated as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedging relationship.
As such, changes in the fair value will be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in Other reserves, with the fair value of the interest rate derivatives recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The following table presents the Groups outstanding interest rate swaps agreements, notional amounts and related fair values at 31 December 2018.
The fair values are based on market values of equivalent instruments at 31 December 2018.
These financial instruments are classified as Level 2 based upon the degree to which the fair value movements are observable.
Level 2 fair value measurements are defined as those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly prices from third parties or indirectly derived from third party prices.
170 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 27.
Financial Instruments continued Derivative financial assets continued 2018 2017 c c 2018 Fair Value 2017 Fair Value Notional Assets Notional Assets Amount Liabilities Amount Liabilities Effective Date Maturity Date $m $m $m $m a 3 Month LIBOR Float to Fixed Interest Rate Swap June 30, June 30, 2017 2020 544.9 7.4 585.0 5.0 b 3 Month LIBOR Float to Fixed Interest Rate Swap June 30, June 30, 2017 2020 288.9 3.9 297.0 2.4 833.8 11.3 882.0 7.4 Recognised in Other comprehensive income 3.9 7.4 a Under the interest rate swap agreement, commencing on 29 September 2017, the Group is entitled to receive quarterly interest payments at a variable rate equal to the 3 month LIBOR, subject to an interest rate floor of 0.00% and is required to make quarterly interest payments at a fixed rate of 1.709%.
In addition, for hedging purposes, the notional amount is split into six equal tranches.
b Under the interest rate swap agreement, commencing on 29 September 2017, the Group is entitled to receive quarterly interest payments at a variable rate equal to the 3 month LIBOR, subject to an interest rate floor of 0.75% and is required to make quarterly interest payments at a fixed rate of 1.749%.
In addition, for hedging purposes, the notional amount is split into three equal tranches.
c The fair values of the interest rate swaps are shown in Derivative financial assets on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss includes the negligible ineffective impact of the interest rate swaps.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The carrying amounts reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2018 and 2017 for cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, restricted cash, and trade and other payables approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities.
There are no other assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring or non-recurring basis.
Liabilities not Measured at Fair Value The borrowings are initially carried at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs and subsequently at amortised cost.
At 31 December 2018, the estimated fair value of the Groups borrowings, excluding finance leases approximated $1,586.6 million 2017: $1,819.5 million.
The fair values were estimated using the quoted market prices and current interest rates offered for similar debt issuances.
Borrowings are categorised as Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements.
See Note 20 Borrowings for the face and the carrying values of the Groups borrowings.
Related Party Transactions In 2017, Nordic Capital, a shareholder and former equity sponsor of the Group, was considered to be a related party.
In 2017, Group revenue included $8.6 million and purchases of inventory included $6.3 million with companies affiliated to Nordic Capital.
The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2017 included trade receivables of $2.1 million and trade payables of $0.1 million in relation to these transactions.
As at 31 December 2018, Nordic Capital is no longer considered to be a related party under IAS 24.
Key management personnel compensation Key management personnel are those persons who have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
The definition of key management personnel includes Directors both executive and non-executive and other executives from the management team with significant authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the Groups activities.
Key management personnel compensation for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 comprised the following: 2018 2017 $m $m Short-term employee benefits 7.8 9.7 Share-based expense 4.4 26.2 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.5 Termination benefits 2.6 Total 12.8 39.0 The 2017 amounts shown in the above table do not include an outstanding loan of $0.2 million at 31 December 2017 to the Groups then CEO.
The amount outstanding at 31 December 2018 was $0.1 million.
The amounts of share-based compensation to the key management personnel disclosed in the table above are based on the expense recognised under IFRS 2.
Further details of short-term employee benefits, share-based expense, post-employment benefits and termination benefits for the Executive Directors are shown in the Remuneration report on pages 106 to 111.
Subsequent Events The Group has evaluated subsequent events through 14 February 2019, the date the Consolidated Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors.
On 12 February 2019, the Board proposed the final dividend in respect of 2018 subject to shareholder approval at our Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2019, to be distributed on 16 May 2019.
Refer to Note 11 Dividends for further details.
171 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
