Shareholder information Our corporate website www.
com Telephone share dealing Information about our Stock Exchange announcements, key dates in Please note this service is, at present, only available to shareholders our financial calendar, our share price information and background resident in certain jurisdictions.
The commission is 1% plus a charge of information is available on our corporate website by clicking 35.
In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
The service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 44 0 370 703 The date for the release of our interim results for the six months 0084.
Before you trade you will need to register for this service.
ended 30 June 2019 will be posted in due course on our website.
This can be done by going online at www.
Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the call.
Shareholders may also receive information by email by signing up The SRN appears on share certificates.
A bank debit card will be to the news alert service available on our corporate website at required for purchases.
Detailed terms and conditions are available www.
Share price information Please note that due to the regulations in the UK, Computershare Our closing share price as at 31 December 2018 was 138.95p.
are required to check that you have read and accepted their Terms and Conditions before being able to trade, which could delay your Managing your shareholding first telephone trade.
If you wish to trade quickly, we suggest You can manage your shareholding online by registering to use visiting their website and registering online first.
Investor Centre, a free and secure website.
Investor Centre is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
To find out more about Share fraud Investor Centre visit www.
Registration is a We would like to warn all of our shareholders to be very wary of straightforward process and all you will need is your shareholder any unsolicited telephone calls or letters which offer investment reference number the SRN and registered address details.
advice, offer to buy your shares at a discounted price, or sell them at an inflated price or offers free company reports.
This Shareholders who prefer not to manage their shareholding online type of call should be treated as an investment scam.
Further can contact our Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, information about investment scams and how they should who manage our share dealing service.
The share dealing contact be reported is available on our corporate website at telephone number is 44 0 370 703 6219 and further information www.
about Computershare Investor Services PLC is set out below.
Company Secretary and registered office Internet share dealing Clare Bates Please note that, at present, this service is only available to 3 Forbury Place shareholders in certain jurisdictions, including the UK.
Please refer 23 Forbury Road to the website for an up to date list of these countries.
This service Reading RG1 3JH provides shareholders with a convenient way to buy or sell the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The Registrar commission is 1.0%, subject to a minimum charge of 30.
In addition, Computershare Investor Services PLC stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
Real-time The Pavilions dealing is available during market hours.
In addition, there is a Bridgwater Road convenient facility to place your order outside of market hours.
Bristol Telephone 44 0 370 703 6219 Up to 90-day limit orders are available for sales.
Before you can Email webqueries@computershare.
co. uk trade you will need to register for the service.
To access the service log on to www.
Auditor Deloitte LLP Shareholders should have their SRN available.
The SRN appears on share certificates as it will be required as part of the registration Brokers process.
A bank debit card will be required for purchases.
Goldman Sachs International UBS Limited Solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP 180 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Important information for readers of this Annual Report Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the members of the Company.
The Group and its Directors, employees, agents and advisors do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this Annual Report is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
In order, among other things, to utilise the safe harbour provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995 and the UK Companies Act 2006, we are providing the following cautionary statement: This Annual Report contains statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group, including among other things, statements about expected revenues, margins, earnings per share or other financial or other measures.
Forward-looking statements are statements relating to the future which are based on information available at the time such statements are made, including information relating to risks and uncertainties.
Although we believe that the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are based on reasonable assumptions, the matters discussed in the forwardlooking statements may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these statements, many of which are beyond the Groups control.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of the preparation of this Annual Report and the Group undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
We identify the forward-looking statements by using the words anticipates, believes, expects, intends and similar expressions in such statements.
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, certain of which are beyond our control include, among other things those factors identified in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section which begins on page 36.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and the development of the industry in which the Group operates, may differ materially from those made or suggested by the forward-looking statements set out in this Annual Report.
Past performance of the Group cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Third-party data To the extent available, the industry and market data contained in this Annual Report has come from third-party sources.
Third-party industry publications, studies and surveys generally state that the data contained therein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but that there is no guarantee of the accuracy or completeness of such data.
In addition, certain industry and market data in this Annual Report came from the Groups own internal research and estimates based on the knowledge and experience of the Groups management in the market in which the Group operates.
While the Group believes that such research and estimates are reasonable and reliable, they, and their underlying methodology and assumptions, have not been verified by any independent source for accuracy or completeness and are subject to change without notice.
Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on any of the industry or market data in this Annual Report.
ConvaTec website Information on or accessible through our website www.
com and other websites mentioned in this Annual Report, does not form part of and is not incorporated into this Annual Report.
Figures Figures in parentheses in tables and in the Financial Statements are used to represent negative numbers.
This Report is printed on materials which are FSC certified from well-managed forests.
These materials contain ECF Elemental Included in this Annual Report and Accounts are photographs of our Chlorine Free pulp and are 100% recyclable.
employees and facilities in Deeside UK, Haina Dominican Republic and Michalovce Slovakia.
london All trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
ConvaTec Group Plc 3 Forbury Place 23 Forbury Road Reading RG1 3JH T: 44 0 118 952 8100 www.
