Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 249 Glossary Term Definition Additional Tier 1 securities AT1 Securities that are considered additional Tier 1 capital in the context of CRD IV.
arrears A customer is in arrears when they fail to adhere to their contractual payment obligations resulting in an outstanding loan that is unpaid or overdue.
average assets Represents the average of assets over the year adjusted for any disposed operations.
B The Groups digital application suite, offering Retail customers money management capabilities across Web, Android and Apple platforms.
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the BCBS in June 2006 defining how firms should calculate their regulatory capital requirements.
Basel III Reforms issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS in December 2010 to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules with the goal of promoting a more resilient banking sector.
In Europe the new requirements were implemented by CRD IV, on a phased basis from 1 January 2014 with full implementation by 1 January 2019. basis points bps One hundredth of a percent 0.01% : meaning that 100 basis points is equal to 1%.
This term is commonly used in describing interest rate movements.
Board Refers to the CYBG PLC Board or the Clydesdale Bank PLC Board as appropriate.
Capped Indemnity The indemnity from NAB in favour of CYBG in respect of certain qualifying conduct costs incurred by the Group, which is capped at the Capped Indemnity Amount, subject to the Loss Sharing Arrangement, under the terms of the Conduct Indemnity Deed.
Capped Indemnity Amount An amount equal to 1.58bn less any Pre Covered provision amount.
carrying value also referred to as carrying The value of an asset or a liability in the balance sheet based on either amortised cost or amount fair value principles.
CMA9 The nine largest banks and building societies in Great Britain and Northern Ireland, based on the volume of personal and business current accounts, who are mandated to deliver Open Banking.
The nine banks are AIB, Bank of Ireland, Barclays, HSBC, Lloyds, Nationwide, Danske Bank, RBS and Santander.
collateral The assets of a borrower that are used as security against a loan facility.
collective impairment provision Impairment assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant and to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment.
Combined Group CYBG and its controlled entities following the acquisition of Virgin Money.
commercial paper An unsecured promissory note issued to finance short-term credit requirements.
These instruments have a specified maturity date and stipulate the face amount to be paid to the investor on that date.
Common Equity Tier 1 capital CET1 The highest quality form of regulatory capital that comprises total shareholders equity and related non-controlling interests, less goodwill and intangible assets and certain other regulatory adjustments.
Conduct Indemnity Deed The deed between NAB and CYBG setting out the terms of: the Capped Indemnity: and certain arrangements for the treatment and management of Relevant Conduct Matters.
conduct risk The risk of treating customers unfairly and or delivering inappropriate outcomes resulting in customer detriment, regulatory fines, compensation, redress costs and reputational damage.
counterparty The other party that participates in a financial transaction, with every transaction requiring a counterparty in order for the transaction to complete.
covered bonds A corporate bond with primary recourse to the institution and secondary recourse to a pool of assets that act as security for the bonds on issuer default.
Covered bonds remain on the issuers balance sheet and are a source of term funding for the Group.
250 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Additional information Glossary Term Definition CRD IV European legislation to implement Basel III.
It replaces earlier European capital requirements directives with a revised package consisting of a new Capital Requirements Directive and a new Capital Requirements Regulation.
CRD IV sets out capital and liquidity requirements for European banks and harmonises the European framework for bank supervision.
credit risk adjustment credit valuation An adjustment to the valuation of financial instruments held at fair value to reflect the adjustment creditworthiness of the counterparty.
customer deposits Money deposited by individuals and corporate entities that are not credit institutions, and can be either interest bearing, non-interest bearing or term deposits.
CYBI CYB Investments Limited default A customer is in default when either they are more than 90 DPD on a credit obligation to the Group, or are considered unlikely to pay their credit obligations in full without recourse to actions such as realisation of security if held.
Demerger The demerger of the Group from NAB pursuant to which all of the issued share capital of CYBI was transferred to CYBG by NAB in consideration for the issue and transfer of CYBG shares to NAB in part for the benefit of NAB which NAB subsequently sold pursuant to the IPO and in part for the benefit of NAB shareholders under a scheme of arrangement under part 5.1 of the Australian Corporations Act.
Demerger date 8 February 2016. derivative A financial instrument that is a contract or agreement whose value is related to the value of an underlying instrument, reference rate or index.
earnings at risk EaR A measure of the quantity by which net interest income might change in the event of an adverse change in interest rates.
effective interest rate The carrying value of certain financial instruments which amortises the relevant fees over the expected life of the instrument.
encumbered assets Assets that have been pledged as security, collateral or legally ring fenced in some other way which prevents those assets being transferred, pledged, sold or otherwise disposed.
exposure A claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of financial loss.
fair value The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal or most advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
Financial Ombudsman Service FOS An independent body set up by the UK Parliament to resolve individual complaints between financial businesses and their customers.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme The UKs compensation fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services FSCS firms and is funded by the financial services industry.
The FSCS may pay compensation if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against it.
This is usually because it has stopped trading or has been declared in default.
forbearance The term generally applied to the facilities provided or changes to facilities provided to assist borrowers, both retail and SME, who are experiencing, or are about to experience, a period of financial stress.
funding risk A form of liquidity risk arising when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset positions cannot be obtained at the expected terms and when required.
Group CYBG and its controlled entities.
hedge ineffectiveness Represents the extent to which the income statement is impacted by changes in fair value or cash flows of hedging instruments not being fully offset by changes in fair value or cash flows of hedged items.
iB The Groups IT digital platform, built on an open architecture framework providing integration and connectivity for our customer systems, applications and technology partners.
IFRS 9 The new financial instrument accounting standard which is applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, which the Group will adopt from 1 October 2018.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 251 Term Definition impaired loans Loans in arrears with insufficient security to cover principal and arrears of interest revenue or where there is sufficient doubt about the ultimate collectability of principal and interest.
impairment allowances A provision held on the balance sheet to recognise that a loan is impaired.
This can be calculated at either the individual or collective level.
impairment losses Where an assets recoverable amount is less than its carrying value and the difference is recognised in the income statement with the carrying value of the asset reduced by creating an impairment allowance.
This can be assessed at either the individual or collective level.
interest rate hedging products IRHP This incorporates: i standalone hedging products identified in the Financial Services Authority FSA 2012 notice: ii the voluntary inclusion of certain of the Groups more complex tailored business loan TBL products: and iii the Groups secondary review of all fixed-rate tailored business loans FRTBLs complaints which were not in scope for the FSA notice.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment The Groups assessment of the levels of capital that it needs to hold through an Process ICAAP examination of its risk profile from regulatory and economic capital viewpoints.
Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment The Groups assessment and management of balance sheet risks relating to funding and Process ILAAP liquidity.
Internal Ratings-Based approach IRB A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal, rather than supervisory, estimates of risk parameters.
investment grade The highest possible range of credit ratings, from AAA to BBB, as measured by external credit rating agencies.
jaws The net difference between movements in total income and underlying costs for the period expressed as a percentage.
Level 1 fair value measurements Financial instruments whose fair value is derived from unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
Level 2 fair value measurements Financial instruments whose fair value is derived from quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Level 3 fair value measurements Financial instruments whose fair value is derived from valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Listing Rules Regulations applicable to any company listed on a United Kingdom stock exchange, subject to the oversight of the UK Listing Authority UKLA.
The Listing Rules set out mandatory standards for any company wishing to list its shares or securities for sale to the public.
loan to value ratio LTV A ratio that expresses the amount of a loan as a percentage of the value of the property on which it is secured.
Loss Share The percentage of a provision raised or an increase in a provision which CYBG will be responsible for under the Conduct Indemnity Deed.
Fixed at 9.7% at the Demerger date.
Loss Sharing Arrangement The arrangement relating to the Capped Indemnity pursuant to which CYBG will be responsible for the Loss Share.
medium-term notes Debt instruments issued by corporates, including financial institutions, across a range of maturities.
minimum requirement for own funds and MREL is a minimum requirement for institutions to maintain equity and eligible debt eligible liabilities MREL liabilities, to help ensure that when an institution fails the resolution authority can use these financial resources to absorb losses and recapitalise the continuing business.
The BoE set out its approach to setting banks MREL in November 2016. net interest income The amount of interest received or receivable on assets, net of interest paid or payable on liabilities.
net promoter score NPS This is an externally collated customer loyalty metric that measures loyalty between a provider, who in this context is the Group, and a consumer.
operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people strategies and systems or from external events.
252 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Additional information Glossary Term Definition Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule OLAR An FCA and PRA rule that firms must at all times maintain liquidity resources which are adequate both as to amount and quality, to ensure that there is no significant risk that its liabilities cannot be met as they fall due.
This is included in the Groups risk appetite and subject to approval by the Board as part of the ILAAP.
pension risk The risk that, at any point in time, the available assets to meet pension liabilities are at a value below current and future scheme obligations.
PPI redress Includes PPI customer redress and all associated costs excluding fines.
Pre Covered provision amount The amount of any provision s relating to Relevant Conduct Matters raised or increased by the Group between 31 March 2015 and the demerger date in respect of which NAB has provided specific support at any time after 31 March 2015 but before the Demerger date.
This was 465m at the Demerger date.
probability of default PD The probability that a customer will default usually within a one-year time horizon : although the time horizon will change on 1 October 2018 in line with IFRS 9 requirements.
regulatory capital The capital which the Group holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA.
Relevant Conduct Matters The legacy conduct issues covered by the Capped Indemnity, including certain conduct issues relating to PPI, standalone IRHP, voluntary scope TBLs and FRTBLs and other conduct matters in the period prior to the Demerger date whether or not known at the Demerger date.
residential mortgage-backed securities Securities that represent interests in groups or pools of underlying mortgages.
Investors RMBS in these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest and principal.
retail lending Lending to individuals rather than institutions.
This includes both secured and unsecured lending such as personal loans, residential and BTL mortgages, overdrafts and credit card balances.
Ring-fencing A new regime of rules which require banks to change the way that they are structured by separating retail banking services from investment and international banking.
This is to ensure the economy and taxpayers are protected in the event of any future financial crises.
risk appetite The level and types of risk the Group is willing to assume within the boundaries of its risk capacity to achieve its strategic objectives.
risk weighted assets RWA On and off balance sheet assets of the Group are allocated a risk weighting based on the amount of capital required to support the asset.
sale and repurchase agreement repo A short-term funding agreement that allows a borrower to create a collateralised loan by selling a financial asset to a lender.
As part of the agreement, the borrower commits to repurchase the security at a date in the future repaying the proceeds of the loan.
For the counterparty buying the security and agreeing to sell in the future it is a reverse repurchase agreement or a reverse repo.
Scheme The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, the Yorkshire and Clydesdale Bank Pension Scheme.
secured lending Lending in which the borrower pledges some asset e. g. property as collateral for the lending.
securitisation The practice of pooling similar types of contractual debt and packaging the cash flows from the financial asset into securities that can be sold to institutional investors in debt capital markets.
It provides the Group with a source of secured funding than can achieve a reduction in funding costs by offering typically AAA rated securities secured by the underlying financial asset.
SME lending Lending to non-retail customers, including overdrafts, asset and lease financing, term lending, bill acceptances, foreign currency loans, international and trade finance, securitisation and specialised finance.
specific impairment provision A specific provision relates to a specific loan, and represents the estimated shortfall between the carrying value of the asset and the estimated future cash flows, including the estimated realisable value of securities after meeting securities realisation costs.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 253 Term Definition standardised approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit Assessment Institutions ECAI ratings and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined percentage charge to the gross income of eight specified business lines.
stress testing The term used to describe techniques where plausible events are considered as vulnerabilities to ascertain how this will impact the own funds or liquidity which a bank holds.
structured entities SE An entity created to accomplish a narrow well-defined objective e. g. securitisation of financial assets.
An SE may take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership or unincorporated entity.
SEs are often created with legal arrangements that impose strict limits on the activities of the SE.
May also be referred to as an SPV.
subordinated debt Liabilities which rank after the claims of other creditors of the issuer in the event of insolvency or liquidation.
Term Funding Scheme TFS Launched in 2016 by the BoE to allow banks and building societies to borrow from the BoE at rates close to base rate.
This is designed to increase lending to businesses by lowering interest rates and increasing access to credit.
Tier 1 capital A measure of a banks financial strength defined by CRD IV.
It captures Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, subject to deductions.
Tier 2 capital A component of regulatory capital, including qualifying subordinated debt, eligible collective impairment allowances and other Tier 2 securities as defined by CRD IV.
total net capital absorbed The amount of capital generated by the business in basis points over a given period, after non underlying items are included.
unaudited unverified Financial information that has not been subject to validation by the Groups external auditor.
underlying capital generation The amount of capital generated by the business in basis points over a given period, before non-underlying items are included.
unsecured lending Lending in which the borrower pledges no assets as collateral for the lending such as credit cards and current account overdrafts.
value at risk VaR A measure of the loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of adverse movements in market risk factors e. g. rates, prices, volatilities over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
Virgin Money Virgin Money Holdings UK plc
