CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 257 Forward-looking statements The information in this document may In light of these risks, uncertainties and 2018 has been another year of strong include forward looking statements, which assumptions, the events in the forward are based on assumptions, expectations, looking statements may not occur.
Forward progress for CYBG, with the continued valuations, targets, estimates, forecasts and looking statements involve inherent risks projections about future events.
Other events not taken execution of its strategy and disciplined be identified by the use of words such as into account may occur and may expects, aims, targets, seeks, anticipates, significantly affect the analysis of the delivery against all of the strategic targets plans, intends, prospects, outlooks, forward looking statements.
No member the Group has set.
projects, forecasts, believes, estimates, of the Group or their respective Directors, potential, possible, and similar words or officers, employees, agents, advisers or phrases.
These forward looking statements, affiliates gives any assurance that any such The transformation CYBG has undertaken as well as those included in any other projections or estimates will be realised or material discussed at any presentation, are that actual returns or other results will not since IPO has positioned the Group well and subject to risks, uncertainties and be materially lower than those set out in assumptions about the Group and its this document and or discussed at any culminated in the acquisition of Virgin Money securities, investments and the presentation.
All forward looking environment in which it operates, including, statements should be viewed as to create the first true national competitor to among other things, the development of its hypothetical.
No representation or business and strategy, any acquisitions, warranty is made that any forward looking the status quo in UK banking.
combinations, disposals or other corporate statement will come to pass.
No member of activity undertaken by the Group including the Group or their respective Directors, but not limited to the acquisition of Virgin officers, employees, agents, advisers or Money Holdings UK plc, trends in its affiliates undertakes any obligation to operating industry, changes to customer update or revise any such forward looking behaviours and covenant, macroeconomic statement following the publication of this and or geopolitical factors, changes to its document nor accepts any responsibility, board and or employee composition, liability or duty of care whatsoever for exposures to terrorist activity, IT system whether in contract, tort or otherwise or failures, cyber-crime, fraud and pension makes any representation or warranty, scheme liabilities, changes to law and or express or implied, as to the truth, fullness, the policies and practices of the BoE, the fairness, merchantability, accuracy, FCA and or other regulatory and sufficiency or completeness of, the information in this document.
governmental bodies, inflation, deflation, interest rates, exchange rates, changes in The information, statements and opinions the liquidity, capital, funding and or asset contained in this document do not position and or credit ratings of the Group, constitute or form part of, and should not future capital expenditures and acquisitions, be construed as, any public offer under any the repercussions of the UKs referendum applicable legislation or an offer to sell or vote to leave the European Union EU, the solicitation of any offer to buy any UKs exit from the EU including any securities or financial instruments or any View our Annual Report and Accounts, change to the UKs currency, Eurozone advice or recommendation with respect to Financial Results and Articles and other information instability, and any referendum on Scottish such securities or other financial a bout CYBG at www.
Reporting Certain figures contained in this document, including financial information, may have been The paper used for this report is produced using 100% virgin wood fibre from well-managed subject to rounding adjustments and foreign forests.
The pulp is bleached using an Elementary exchange conversions.
Accordingly, in certain Chlorine Free ECF process and the mill has instances, the sum or percentage change of the both FSC and PEFC certification.
numbers contained in this document may not conform exactly to the total figure given.
The forward-looking statements disclaimer can be found on page 257.
CYBG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CYBG PLC CYBG PLC Registered number 09595911 Registered number 09595911 England and Wales England and Wales ARBN 609 948 281 ARBN 609 948 281 Australia Australia www www.
com om Head Ofce: 30 St. Vincent Place Head Ofce: Glasgow 30 St. Vincent Place G1 2HL Glasgow G1 2HL London Ofce: Floor 15, The Leadenhall Building London Ofce: 122 Leadenhall Street Floor 15, The Leadenhall Building London 122 Leadenhall Street EC3V 4AB London EC3V 4AB Registered Ofce: 20 Merrion Way Registered Ofce: Leeds, West Yorkshire 20 Merrion Way: LS2 8NZ Leeds, West Yorkshire LS2 8NZ
