246 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Additional information Measuring financial performance glossary Financial performance measures As highlighted in the Strategic report, the Financial results section and the Risk report, the Group utilises a range of performance 1 measures to assess the Groups performance.
These can be grouped under the following headings: Profitability: Asset quality: and Capital optimisation.
The performance measures used are a combination of statutory, regulatory and alternative performance measures: with the type of performance measure used dependent on the component elements and source of what is being measured.
Statutory performance measures S These are used when the basis of the calculation is derived from a measure that is required under generally accepted accounting principles GAAP.
An example of this would be references to earnings per share.
Regulatory performance measures R These are used when the basis of the calculation is required and specified by the Groups regulators.
Examples of this would be the leverage ratio and the Tier 1 ratio.
Alternative performance measures A These are used when the basis of the calculation is derived from a non-GAAP measure also referred to as APMs.
Examples of this would be the cost to income ratio and the return on tangible equity.
Where a performance measure refers to an underlying metric, the detail on how this measure is arrived at, along with managements reasoning for excluding the item from the Groups current underlying performance rationale, can be found on page 248, directly following this section.
These adjustments to the Groups statutory results made by management are necessary to provide a more meaningful underlying basis.
Descriptions of the performance measures used, including the basis of calculation where appropriate, are set out below: Profitability: Term Type Definition Net interest margin NIM A Net interest income as a percentage of average interest earning assets for a given period.
Net interest income of 851m 2017: 844m is divided by average interest earning assets for a given period of 39,417m 2017: 37,697m which is then adjusted to exclude short-term repos used for liquidity management purposes, amounts received under the Conduct Indemnity and not yet utilised, and any associated income.
As a result of the exclusions noted above, average interest earning assets used as the denominator have reduced by 120m 2017: 491m and the net interest income numerator has reduced by 0.4m 2017: 1.1m.
Underlying RoTE A Underlying profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders as a percentage of average tangible equity total equity less intangible assets and AT1 for a given period.
Underlying CIR A Underlying total operating expenses as a percentage of underlying total operating income for a given period.
Underlying return on assets A Underlying profit after tax as a percentage of average total assets for a given period.
Underlying basic EPS A Underlying profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for a given period.
Underlying profit after tax A Underlying profit before tax of 331m 2017: 293m less tax charge of 33m 2017: 73m, attributable to ordinary equity less AT1 distributions net of tax relief of 29m 2017: 29m and was equal to 269m 2017: holders 191m.
The underlying tax charge is calculated by applying the statutory tax rate for the relevant period to the taxable items adjusted on the underlying basis.
Statutory return on tangible A Statutory profit loss after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders as a percentage of equity RoTE average tangible equity total equity less intangible assets and AT1 for a given period.
Statutory cost to income ratio A Statutory total operating expenses as a percentage of total operating income for a given CIR period.
1 The term financial performance measure covers all metrics, ratios and percentage calculations used to assess the Groups performance and is interchangeable with similar terminology used in the Annual Report and Accounts such as highlights, key metrics, key performance indicators KPIs and key credit metrics.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 247 Term Type Definition Statutory return on assets A Statutory profit loss after tax as a percentage of average total assets for a given period.
Statutory basic earnings per S Statutory profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders including tax relief on any share EPS distributions made to other equity holders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for a given period.
Asset quality: Term Type Definition Impairment charge to average A Impairment losses on credit exposures plus credit risk adjustment on fair value loans to customer loans cost of risk average customer loans defined as loans and advances to customers, other financial assets at fair value and due from customers on acceptances.
90 days past due DPD plus A Customer loans that are either impaired or where the repayment is more than 90 days impaired assets to customer loans overdue as a percentage of total customer loans at a given date.
Specific provision to gross A The specific impairment provision on credit exposures as a percentage of gross impaired impaired assets assets at a given date.
Total provision to customer loans A Total impairment provision on credit exposures as a percentage of total customer loans at a given date.
Indexed loan to value LTV of A The mortgage portfolio weighted by balance and indexed using the MIAC Acadametrics the mortgage portfolio indices at a given date.
Net write offs to customer loans A Net write offs, including loans at fair value, as a percentage of total customer loans at a given date.
Capital optimisation: Term Type Definition Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 R CET1 capital divided by RWAs at a given date.
ratio Tier 1 ratio R Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk weighted assets.
Total capital ratio R Total capital resources divided by risk weighted assets at a given date.
Leverage ratio R This is a regulatory standard ratio proposed by the Basel III as a supplementary measure to the risk based capital requirements.
It is intended to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking sector and is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital resources by a defined measure of on and off-balance sheet items plus derivatives.
Modified leverage ratio R The Groups leverage ratio on a modified basis, excluding qualifying central bank claims from the exposure measure in accordance with the policy statement issued by the PRA in October 2017.
Tangible net asset value TNAV A Tangible equity as at the period end divided by the closing number of ordinary shares.
per share Loan to deposit ratio LDR R Customer loans as a percentage of customer deposits at a given date.
Liquidity coverage ratio LCR R Measures the surplus or deficit of the Groups high quality liquid assets relative to weighted net stressed cash outflows over a 30 day period.
It assesses whether the Group has sufficient liquid assets to withstand a short-term liquidity stress based on cash outflow assumptions provided by regulators.
Net stable funding ratio NSFR R The total amount of available stable funding divided by the total amount of required stable funding, expressed as a percentage.
The Group monitors the NSFR based on its own interpretations of current guidance available for CRD IV NSFR reporting.
Therefore, the reported NSFR may change over time with regulatory developments.
Due to possible differences in interpretation of the rules, the Groups ratio may not be directly comparable with those of other financial institutions.
248 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Additional information Measuring financial performance glossary Underlying adjustments to the statutory view of performance In arriving at an underlying basis, the effects of certain items that do not promote an understanding of historical or future trends of earnings or cash flows are removed: with management believing this presents a set of results that provide a more reflective year-on-year comparison.
These items are: FY2018 FY2017 Reason for exclusion from the Groups current Item m m Description underlying performance Legacy conduct charges 396 58 These are customer redress and These costs are historical in nature and associated costs arising from legacy are not indicative of the Groups current products and past sales practices.
Restructuring and related 38 67 Restructuring of the business is These costs are significant and are part of expense currently ongoing with costs the Groups strategic objective in including redundancy payments, simplifying and streamlining operations property vacation costs, associated and processes to enhance productivity.
enablement costs and non-recurring Consequently, this expense is not viewed costs arising from operational as a normal ongoing operating cost to the transformation.
Virgin Money acquisition costs 37 Costs incurred directly relating to These costs are significant and not the acquisition of Virgin Money.
indicative of the Groups underlying performance.
RBS alternative remedies 16 Costs incurred, in relation to the These costs are part of delivering the package spend RBS alternative remedies package, Groups growth strategy.
Consequently, to enable strategic and inorganic this expense is not viewed as a normal growth.
ongoing operating cost to the Group.
Separation costs 8 8 Costs incurred directly relating to Specific costs relating to the Demerger the Demerger.
are historic and not indicative of the Groups current underlying performance.
Gain on disposal of VocaLink 20 A one-off gain recognised on the Losses or gains from one-off or disposal of the Groups VocaLink infrequent transactions are not indicative share.
of the Groups current underlying performance.
Gain on defined benefit pension 88 A one-off gain on the closure of the Losses or gains from one-off or scheme reforms defined benefit pension scheme to infrequent transactions are not indicative future accrual for the majority of of the Groups current underlying members.
