166 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk report Operational risk including resilience and information security Proactive operational risk management with enhanced risk frameworks Operational risk including resilience and Approach to monitoring and mitigating The Group continues to information security is the risk of loss exposures strengthen business resilience, resulting from inadequate or failed internal Losses may result from both internal and while identifying areas of processes, people strategies and systems external events, and are categorised using operational efficiency, and or from external events including, for risk categories aligned to Basel II.
The Basel example, the prospect of a cyberattack.
It is II categories are used to ensure that data ensuring the level of a core component of the RMF and is can be reported externally and compared operational risk capital reflects embedded in day-to-day business activities.
Responsibilities are set out in a structured The Group has identified, assessed and is operational risk framework that seeks to currently monitoring all key operational identify, assess, mitigate, monitor, and risks across the above noted categories, report the operational risks and events that including undertaking an assessment of could impact the achievement of business control effectiveness, monitoring trends in objectives or impact core business key risk indicators and escalating events, in processes.
Business units are responsible for the day-to-day management of operational Stress testing risk, with oversight from the risk The Group develops and maintains a suite management function, and independent of operational risk scenarios using internal assurance activities undertaken by internal and external data.
insights into the stresses the business could be subject to given extreme circumstances.
The requirements of the operational RMF Scenarios cover all material operational are defined in an overarching operational risks including execution of change, failures risk policy and related minimum standards, to core processes or contagion risk from a and reflect the Groups operational risk third party.
Scenarios are owned by senior appetite.
management custodians with review and challenge provided by Risk Management, Risk appetite Executive Risk Committee and Board Risk The Group is prepared to tolerate a level of Committee, as part of the ICAAP process.
operational risk exposure within agreed Management actions are agreed and thresholds and limits.
A level of resilience monitored and linked with business risk from internal and external events is resilience and continuity testing where tolerated however immediate steps must appropriate.
be taken to minimise customer disruption through recovery within defined timelines.
Operational risks arise from day-to-day business activities, which may result in direct or indirect losses and could adversely impact the Groups financial performance, levels of customer care and reputation.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 167 Risk category Operational resilience risk The risks associated with the ability of the Group to quickly adapt to disruptions while maintaining continuous business operations and safeguarding people, assets and overall brand equity, even in the face of adverse events, shocks and chronic or incremental changes.
How this risk is managed the Group has a well-defined and embedded resilience framework that is designed to both prevent disruptions from occurring and, where they do occur, to minimise the impact to customers and colleagues through speedy resolution.
Information security risk The risks associated with inadequate and failed information technology processes and components including hardware, software and networking components.
How this risk is managed the Group continues to enhance and invest in the control environment, recognising the changing cyber landscape and the increased focus on digital capabilities, as well as the changing risk profile of the business.
Change risk The risks associated with a failure to execute and deliver change that could result in an inability to meet our strategic objectives, including failing to meet our customer, regulator, colleague, or shareholders expectations, at a Group level and local management level.
How this risk is managed the Group maintains a centralised view of change to ensure that the risks of individual changes are managed effectively and that change is prioritised to minimise the overall risks to the organisation in line with risk appetite.
Third party risk The risks associated with ensuring the Groups outsourced and offshoring arrangements are controlled effectively, including the risk of failure to service existing and new customers, and the potential cessation of specific activities, or the risk of personally identifiable information or Group sensitive data being exposed or exploited, or the risk of financial, reputational and regulatory censure if the third party enters into any illegal or unethical activities.
How this risk is managed the Group continues to strengthen its third party management framework and oversight, and ensures that the procurement of service providers adheres to these requirements.
Data risk The risks associated with the accuracy, management and use of data that underpins decision-making at every level across the organisation.
How this risk is managed the Group has a data management framework for the development, use, monitoring, management and ownership of data.
Data quality is assessed against three key attributes: completeness: appropriateness: and accuracy.
Furthermore, the Group has strengthened its data protection management and GDPR compliance framework.
Integration risk The operational risks associated with management of a large-scale integration plan including: the need for effective governance and clear accountability: increased threat of cybersecurity incident: risks associated with systems migration or inadequate testing or poor management of external and internal communications: and a poor risk culture.
How this risk is managed the Group will establish integration programme activities to mitigate the risks, including: the preparation and delivery of the FSMA Part VII transfer: the development, validation and implementation of Group rebranding requirements: migration support for enterprise systems implementation: inputs for ongoing programme management reporting, dependencies and resource management: and Risk SME input to provide support and challenge to the overall programme.
