DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Eighty Second Annual General Meeting of Daejan Holdings PLC will be held at The Connaught Rooms, 61-65 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5DA, on Wednesday 29 August at 2.30 p. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary Business To consider and if thought fit, pass the following Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
To receive the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditor.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
To re-elect B S E Freshwater as a Director.
To re-elect S I Freshwater as a Director.
To re-elect S B Benaim as a Director.
To re-elect S Srulowitz as a Director.
To re-elect D Davis as a Director.
To re-elect R E Freshwater as a Director.
To re-elect A M Freshwater as a Director.
To re-elect C B Freshwater as a Director.
To reappoint KPMG LLP as Auditor, and to authorise the Directors to agree its remuneration.
Resolution 12 By order of the Board M R M Jenner Secretary Explanatory Note to Resolutions 6 and 7 The UK Corporate Governance Code provides for all directors of companies forming the FTSE350 to be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Accordingly all members of the Board are standing for re-election at this Annual General Meeting.
Biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 30 and 31 of the annual report.
Resolutions 6 and 7 relate to the re-election of Mr S Benaim and Mr S Srulowitz who are the directors that the Board has determined are independent directors for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Because the Company has controlling shareholders, set out on page 32 of the annual report, that is exercising more than 30% of the voting rights of the Company the Listing Rules require that such directors seeking re-election by shareholders who are deemed independent must be approved by a majority of both: 1.
The shareholders of the Company: and 2.
The independent shareholders of the Company that is the shareholders of the Company entitled to vote on the election of directors who are not controlling shareholders of the Company.
Resolutions 6 and 7 are therefore being proposed as ordinary resolutions which all shareholders may vote on but in addition the Company will separately count the number of votes cast by independent shareholders in favour of the resolution.
The Company will announce the results of the resolutions on this basis as well as announcing the results of the ordinary resolutions of all shareholders.
Neither Mr Benaim nor Mr Srulowitz have any previous or existing material relationship with the Company, its directors or any controlling shareholder.
20 July 2018 Page 95 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 NOTICE OF MEETING continued Shareholder Notes 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting and at any adjournment of it.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
If a proxy appointment is submitted without indicating how the proxy should vote on any resolution, the proxy will exercise his her discretion as to whether and, if so, how he she votes.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact the Companys Registrar, Equiniti Limited, on 0371 384 2203 international callers: 44 121 415 7047.
Lines open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
Members may also appoint a proxy through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service as described in note 13 below.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA no later than 2.30 p. m. on 27 August 2018, together with, if appropriate, the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a duly certified copy of that power or authority.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in note 13 a below will not prevent a member attending the meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
A vote withheld option is provided on the form of proxy to enable you to instruct your proxy not to vote on any particular resolution.
However, it should be noted that a vote withheld in this way is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes For and Against a resolution.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, members must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.30 p. m. on 27 August 2018 or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.30 p. m. on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
If a member submits more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or would involve the disclosure of confidential information or ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
As at the date of issue of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 16,295,357 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at the date of issue of this notice are 16,295,357.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for this meeting by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual which can be viewed at www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Please note the following: a In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this notice.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time Page 96 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
b CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred in particular to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
c The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can be found at www.
You may not use any fax number, email address or other electronic address provided in this document or on the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than expressly stated.
Page 97 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 NOTES Page 98 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Page 99 Opposite page: 260 West End Avenue, Manhattan, New York.
Back cover: 11 East Chase Street, Baltimore, Maryland.
sterling 170611 Design, art direction and photography by Roger Watt.
