Notes to the Company Financial Statements i Principal Accounting Policies of the Company Accounting Principles The Company Statement of Financial Position has been prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006.
The principle accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below, and have been applied consistently.
Basis of Preparation No income statement is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 408 2 and 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the Company was 71.5 million 2017: 11.9 million.
The following exemptions have been taken in preparing the financial statements: a Exemption for fair value as deemed cost The Company has elected to measure certain items of property, plant and equipment at fair value at the date of transition and has used those values as the deemed cost at that date.
b Exemption for borrowing costs The Company has elected to apply the requirements of IAS 23 only with effect from 1 July 2014.
Borrowing costs incurred on or after 1 July 2014 are accounted for in accordance with IAS 23, that is borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, being one that takes a substantial amount of time to get ready for its intended use, are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
c Business combinations Paragraphs 62, B64 d, B64 e, B64 g, B64 h, B64 j to B64 m, B64 n ii, B64 o ii, B64 p, B64 q ii, B66 and B67 of IFRS 3 Business Combinations as the equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
d Share-based payments Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment details of the number and weighted-average exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value of goods and services received was determined.
e Exemption from disclosure Under FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the requirements of Paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors.
Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Where the consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking includes shares in the Company to which the provisions of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 apply, cost represents the nominal value of the shares issued together with the fair value of any additional consideration given and costs.
Where investments are denominated in foreign currencies, they are treated as monetary assets and revalued at each year end date.
Intangible Assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic life of the asset.
The estimated useful lives are: product rights 10 to 15 years software 5 to 7 years Tangible Assets Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic life of the asset.
The estimated useful lives are: plant and fixtures 3 to 15 years Cash Flow Statement As the ultimate holding company of the Group, the Company has relied upon the exemption in FRS 101 not to present a cash flow statement as part of its financial statements.
158 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
