Notes to the Company Financial Statements i Principal Accounting Policies of the Company Accounting Principles The Company Statement of Financial Position has been prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006.
The principle accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below, and have been applied consistently.
Basis of Preparation No income statement is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 408 2 and 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit dealt with in the accounts of the Company was 71.5 million 2017: 11.9 million.
The following exemptions have been taken in preparing the financial statements: a Exemption for fair value as deemed cost The Company has elected to measure certain items of property, plant and equipment at fair value at the date of transition and has used those values as the deemed cost at that date.
b Exemption for borrowing costs The Company has elected to apply the requirements of IAS 23 only with effect from 1 July 2014.
Borrowing costs incurred on or after 1 July 2014 are accounted for in accordance with IAS 23, that is borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, being one that takes a substantial amount of time to get ready for its intended use, are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
c Business combinations Paragraphs 62, B64 d, B64 e, B64 g, B64 h, B64 j to B64 m, B64 n ii, B64 o ii, B64 p, B64 q ii, B66 and B67 of IFRS 3 Business Combinations as the equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
d Share-based payments Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment details of the number and weighted-average exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value of goods and services received was determined.
e Exemption from disclosure Under FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the requirements of Paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors.
Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Where the consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking includes shares in the Company to which the provisions of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 apply, cost represents the nominal value of the shares issued together with the fair value of any additional consideration given and costs.
Where investments are denominated in foreign currencies, they are treated as monetary assets and revalued at each year end date.
Intangible Assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic life of the asset.
The estimated useful lives are: product rights 10 to 15 years software 5 to 7 years Tangible Assets Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic life of the asset.
The estimated useful lives are: plant and fixtures 3 to 15 years Cash Flow Statement As the ultimate holding company of the Group, the Company has relied upon the exemption in FRS 101 not to present a cash flow statement as part of its financial statements.
158 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
com i Principal Accounting Policies of the Company continued Dividends Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders or, in the case of an interim dividend, when the dividend is paid.
Dividends receivable from subsidiaries are recognised when either received in cash or applied to reduce a creditor balance with the subsidiary.
Interest-Bearing Borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestbearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Related Parties Under FRS 101 the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose related party transactions with other Group undertakings as they are all wholly owned within the Group and are included in the Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Consolidated Financial Statements.
Transactions with Key Management Personnel There were no material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration see notes 8 and 34 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and shareholdings.
Transactions with Other Related Parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Company.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Company other than distributions in the period see note 10 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Employee Benefits a Pensions The Company operates a Group stakeholder personal pension scheme for certain employees.
Obligations for contributions are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
b Share-based Payment Transactions The Company operates a number of equity settled share-based payment programmes that allow employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The Company also operates Long Term Incentive Plans for Directors and Senior Executives.
The fair value of shares or options granted is recognised as an employee expense on a straight-line basis in the income statement with a corresponding movement in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares or options the vesting period.
The fair value of the shares or options granted is measured using a valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the shares or options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense in the income statement is adjusted to take into account an estimate of the number of shares or options that are expected to vest together with an adjustment to reflect the number of shares or options that actually do vest except where forfeiture is only due to market-based conditions not being achieved.
The fair values of grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan have been determined using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair values of options granted under all other share option schemes have been determined using the BlackScholes option pricing model.
National Insurance contributions payable by the Company on the intrinsic value of share-based payments at the date of exercise are treated as cash settled awards and revalued to market price at each statement of financial position date.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recharges the expense to those subsidiaries.
Foreign Currency Foreign currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply and have been substantively enacted in the periods in which the timing differences reverse and is provided in respect of all timing differences which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Financial Guarantee Contracts Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
