Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is 24 Cheshire Avenue, Cheshire Business Park, Lostock Gralam, Northwich, England.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below, these have been applied consistently in all years presented.
a Statement of Compliance These consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC as adopted by the European Union, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 and they are separately presented on pages 156 to 164. b Basis of Preparation The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 59.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Refer to the Corporate Governance Report on page 71 for details.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
They are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, except where IFRS require an alternative treatment.
The principal variations relate to derivative financial instruments, cash settled share-based transactions, contingent consideration and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations that are stated at fair value.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of accounting estimates and for management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
These judgements and estimates are based on historical experience and managements best knowledge of the amounts, events or actions under review and the actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Areas involving a high degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are, where necessary, disclosed separately.
Critical Judgements in Applying the Groups Accounting Policies and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the Directors have made the following judgements and estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty which may cause a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are also discussed below.
i Impairment of Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangible Assets The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite life assets are impaired at least on an annual basis or whenever there is an indication of impairment.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which they are allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further detail on the assumptions used in determining value in use calculations is provided in note 14. ii Valuation of Intangible Assets Product rights, commercial relationships and brand intangibles that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Fair value at the date of acquisition reflects managements estimate of the fair value of the individual intangible asset calculated by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to the Group from the utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Other intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated at cost, which might include future milestone and royalty payments.
The measurement of these reflect managements best estimate as to future performance, discounted at an appropriate rate.
iii Taxation The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based upon future taxable income and the expected recoverability of the balance.
The estimate will include assumptions regarding future income streams of the Group and the future movement in corporation tax rates in the respective jurisdictions.
In respect of uncertain tax positions, where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made, management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
The estimate of liabilities in respect of current taxation depends on estimates and judgements in respect of whether or not, and the extent to which, items of income and expenditure will be taxable.
At 30 June 2018 the Group held a current provision of 2.6 million 2017: 2.4 million in respect of uncertain tax provisions.
Liabilities relating to these open and judgemental matters are based on an assessment as to whether additional taxes will be due, after taking into account external advice where appropriate.
The resolution of these tax matters may take many years.
The Group does not expect to materially increase its uncertain tax provision in the next 12 months.
iv Non-underlying Items The Group presents a number of non-GAAP measures.
This is to allow investors to understand the underlying performance of the Group, excluding items associated with areas such as rationalisation, acquisition and disposal related expenses and income including amortisation and impairment on acquired intangibles, non-cash inventory adjustments, and the remeasurement and other movements on deferred and contingent consideration, debt refinancing including any loss on extinguishment of debt, impairment of investments and the rationalisation of the manufacturing organisation and taxation credits.
Judgement is associated with the classification of these items.
The costs incurred in making acquisitions and their integration are deemed to be non-underlying as they do not relate to the sales and profit from ongoing trading activities.
116 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
Accounting Policies continued b Basis of Preparation continued iv Business Combinations The Deferred and contingent consideration and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations are recorded initially at fair value.
Those fair values are based on risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate interest rates.
The assumptions relating to future cash flows and discount rates are based on future forecasts and therefore are inherently judgemental.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards The following standards, amendments to standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the years ended after 30 June 2018, which have had a material impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers: is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and will replace existing accounting standards.
It provides a single, principles-based approach to the recognition of revenue from all contracts with customers, reflecting the transfer of goods and services at a value that the Company expects to be entitled to receive.
The new Standard is not expected to have a material impact on the amount or timing of recognition of reported revenue.
The Group will retrospectively apply the standard, recognising a cumulative adjustment to decrease equity at 1 July 2018 by approximately 6.5 million.
This represents the earlier recognition of rebates and discounts based on a probability of occurrence basis of calculation.
The impact of this change on the income statement for the year ended 30 June 2018 would have been to reduce net revenue by 1.1 million.
There is no impact on the cash flow as a result of the implementation of this change in accounting policy.
In accordance with the Standard requirements, where the modified retrospective approach is applied, prior year results will not be restated.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: is effective for accounting periods on or after 1 January 2018 and will replace existing accounting standards.
The Standard introduces changes to the classification, measurement and fide-recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, provides a new impairment model for financial assets based on expected losses and stipulates a new hedge accounting model.
The new Standard is not expected to have a material impact on reported results.
The Group will retrospectively apply the standard from 1 July 2018 recognising the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
IFRS 16 Leases: is effective for accounting periods on or after 1 January 2019 and will replace existing accounting standards.
The Standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
The standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Groups operating leases.
As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 12.6 million.
However, the Group has not yet determined to what extent these commitments will result in the recognition of an asset and a liability for future payments and how this will affect the Groups profit and classification of cash flows.
New Standards and Interpretations not yet Adopted There are no new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
c Basis of Consolidation Subsidiary Undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
All subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of shareholders earnings and equity attributable to third party shareholders.
The financial statements of all subsidiary undertakings are prepared to the same reporting date as the Company, with the exception of Genera Pharma d. o. o. and Dechra-Brovel S. A. fide C. V. which both prepare local financial statements to 31 December each year, in line with local tax authority regulations.
Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the change in net assets of the investee after the date of acquisition.
Intangible assets identified as part of the notional purchase price allocation are amortised over the useful life of each asset, with the Groups share recognised as a charge in the income statement.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
Distributions received from an associate reduce the carrying amount of the investment.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount adjacent to share of profit loss of associates in the income statement.
Gains and losses resulting from upstream and downstream transactions between the Group and its associate are recognised in the Groups financial statements only to the extent of unrelated investors interests in the associates.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Stock Code: DPH 117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued d Foreign Currency Translation i Functional and Presentational Currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Groups presentational currency, and are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except where it is deemed relevant to disclose the amounts to the nearest million.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
ii Foreign Currency Translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to effective cash flow hedges, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
iii Foreign Operations The income and expenses are translated to Sterling at the average rate for the period being reported.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Sterling at the closing rate at the reporting date.
Foreign currency differences on all translations are recognised in other comprehensive income in the foreign currency translation reserve, a separate component of equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
e Accounting for Financial Assets and Liabilities, Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: held for trading financial assets, available for sale financial assets, and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains and losses both realised and unrealised arising from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the income statement are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets needs to be impaired.
Held for Trading and Available for Sale Financial Assets This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading or available for sale and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are also categorised as held for trading.
Held for trading financial assets are recognised and subsequently carried at fair value.
Derivative Financial Instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risks.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
Cash Flow Hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
Net Investment Hedge For hedges of net investments in foreign operations, where the hedge is effective movements are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Trade Receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently stated at amortised cost less appropriate allowances for amounts which are expected to be non-recoverable.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement in operating expenses.
Trade and Other Payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
118 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
Accounting Policies continued e Accounting for Financial Assets and Liabilities, Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities continued Borrowings and Borrowing Costs Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has a right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction, or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
f Property, Plant and Equipment Owned Assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Leased Assets Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets acquired by finance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until the date the assets become available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: freehold buildings 25 years short leasehold buildings period of lease plant and fixtures 3 to 15 years motor vehicles 4 years The residual value, where significant, is reassessed annually.
g Intangible Assets Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred before 1 July 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Acquisitions after this date fall under the provisions of Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2009.
For these acquisitions, transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, are expensed as incurred and subsequent adjustments to the fair value of consideration payable are recognised in the income statement.
Contingent consideration is measured at fair value based on an estimate of the expected future payments.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised but is allocated to cash generating units and is tested annually for impairment.
Research and Development Costs Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense is incurred.
The Group is also engaged in development activity with a view to bringing new pharmaceutical products to market.
Due to the strict regulatory process involved, there is inherent uncertainty as to the technical feasibility of development projects often until regulatory approval is achieved, with the possibility of failure even at a late stage.
The Group considers that this uncertainty means that the criteria for capitalisation are not met unless it is highly probable that regulatory approval will be achieved and the project is commercially viable.
Internally generated costs of development are capitalised, once the criteria are met, in the consolidated statement of financial position unless those costs cannot be measured reliably or it is not probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group, in which case the relevant costs are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
Where development costs are capitalised, the expenditure includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Acquired Intangible Assets Intangible assets recognised as a result of a business combination are stated at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Other Intangible Assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost including future milestone and royalty payments as applicable less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and other intangibles is recognised in the income statement as an expense is incurred.
Stock Code: DPH 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued g Intangible Assets Subsequent Expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates or extends the asset life.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite or is otherwise stated below.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each consolidated statement of financial position date.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date that they are available for use.
Assets in the course of construction are not amortised until the date the assets become available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: software 5 to 7 years capitalised development costs 5 to 10 years or period of patent patent rights period of patent marketing authorisations indefinite life or period of marketing authorisation product rights 10 to 15 years commercial relationships 7 years brand 3 to 10 years acquired capitalised development costs 10 to 15 years pharmacological process 10 years The pharmacological process and capitalised developed technology from the acquisitions of Putney Inc. and AST Farma B. V. and Le Vet Beheer B. V. respectively are amortised on a reducing balance method at a rate of 20% over a 10 year life based on the expected profile of future cash flows.
All amortisation on a reducing balance methodology is recognised within selling and general administrative expenses with the exception of that in respect of the pharmacological process which is recognised within research and development expenses.
The amortisation of the intangible assets are classified as an administrative expense because they relate to the right to sell and distribute the product.
Within the acquired intangibles the product rights encompass market authorisations, and the capitalised development costs encompass product authorisations subject to regulatory approval.
The pharmacological process is classified as a research and development expense as it relates to the process of taking a product through to registration.
When considering the basis of amortisation for our acquired intangibles, we consider a number of factors: the different market conditions which surround the intangible, the age of the products within developed technology and their corresponding place within the life cycle of the product.
h Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is determined on the first-in, first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
i Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
j Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at each consolidated statement of financial position date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each consolidated statement of financial position date and when there is an indication that the asset is impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash generating units group of units, and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the units group of units on a pro rata basis.
120 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
Accounting Policies continued j Impairment continued An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
k Dividends Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders or, in the case of an interim dividend, when the dividend is paid.
l Employee Benefits Pensions The Group operates a stakeholder personal pension scheme for certain employees.
Obligations for contributions are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Dechra Veterinary Products SAS and Dechra Veterinary Products BV participate in state-run pension arrangements.
These are not considered to be material to the Group financial statements and are accounted for as defined contribution schemes, with contributions being recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
The Group sponsors defined benefit arrangements in certain countries, the most material being a defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands.
This is a funded career average pay arrangement, where pensionable salary is subject to a cap.
The arrangement is funded through an insurance contract.
The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The liability discount rate is the yield at the Statement of Financial Position date using AA rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Groups obligation in respect of a scheme are recognised immediately in reserves and reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset recognised is limited to the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Share-based Payment Transactions The Group operates a number of equity settled share-based payment programmes that allow employees to acquire shares in the Company.
The Group also operates a Long Term Incentive Plan for Directors and Senior Executives.
The fair value of shares or options granted is recognised as an employee expense over the vesting period on a straight-line basis in the income statement with a corresponding movement to equity reserves.
Fair values are determined by use of an appropriate pricing model and by reference to the fair value of the options granted.
The amount to be expensed over the vesting period is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
At each consolidated statement of financial position date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
The impact of the revisions of original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves, over the remaining vesting period.
The fair values of grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan have been determined using the Monte Carlo simulation model, as performed by a qualified third party valuation expert.
The fair values of options granted under all other share option schemes have been determined using the BlackScholes option pricing model, as performed by a qualified third party valuation expert.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
National Insurance contributions payable by the Company on the intrinsic value of share-based payments at the date of exercise are treated as cash settled awards and revalued to market price at each consolidated statement of financial position date.
Bonus and Commission Payments The Group operates sales incentives schemes for certain employees and third party sales representatives in particular territories.
The related bonuses and commissions are accrued in line with the related sales revenues.
Stock Code: DPH 121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued m Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods are supplied to external customers against orders and, title and risk of loss are passed to the customer.
As sales arrangements differ from time to time for example by customer and by territory, each arrangement is reviewed to ensure that revenue is recognised when title and risk has passed in full to the customer.
This review and the corresponding recognition of revenue encompasses a number of factors which include, but are not limited to the following: reviewing delivery arrangements and whether the buyer has accepted title we recognise the revenue at the point at which full title has passed: and or where distribution arrangements are in place, recognising when the goods pass to the third party customer for example by reviewing insurance arrangements and recognising revenue at the point at which title has passed.
Rebates, deductions and discounts are provided for in the same period as the related sales are recorded, and are recognised when reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the earnings process is regarded as being complete.
We estimate the quantity and value of goods which may ultimately be returned at the point of sale.
Our return accruals are based on actual experience over the preceding 12 months for established products.
For newly launched products, we use rates based on our experience with similar products or a predetermined percentage.
Revenue from third party manufacturing consists principally of the production of goods to customer specification together with the provision of technical services.
Revenues from third party manufacturing are recognised upon completion of the work order, either the completion and agreed delivery of the product, or upon full provision of the service.
Revenue represents net invoice value after the deduction of discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated future rebates and returns.
The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected market conditions.
Market conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and other third party analysis, and internally generated information.
Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
n Leases Operating Leases Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement evenly over the period of the lease, as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Finance Leases Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability using the effective interest rate method.
o Net Financing Costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, unwinding of discount on provisions, interest receivable on funds invested, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement see accounting policy e and gains or losses on the retranslation of financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
p Contingent Consideration The Group had adopted the financial liability model when accounting for the contingent consideration of an asset.
The estimated future amounts payable for contingent consideration are recorded on initial recognition of the asset, together with a corresponding liability.
Any subsequent downward remeasurement of the related liability is adjusted against the intangible, with any excess recognised in the Income Statement.
Any subsequent upward remeasurement of the related liability is adjusted against the intangible.
122 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
