Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is 24 Cheshire Avenue, Cheshire Business Park, Lostock Gralam, Northwich, England.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below, these have been applied consistently in all years presented.
a Statement of Compliance These consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC as adopted by the European Union, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 and they are separately presented on pages 156 to 164. b Basis of Preparation The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 59.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Refer to the Corporate Governance Report on page 71 for details.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
They are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, except where IFRS require an alternative treatment.
The principal variations relate to derivative financial instruments, cash settled share-based transactions, contingent consideration and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations that are stated at fair value.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of accounting estimates and for management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
These judgements and estimates are based on historical experience and managements best knowledge of the amounts, events or actions under review and the actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Areas involving a high degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are, where necessary, disclosed separately.
Critical Judgements in Applying the Groups Accounting Policies and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the Directors have made the following judgements and estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty which may cause a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are also discussed below.
i Impairment of Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangible Assets The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite life assets are impaired at least on an annual basis or whenever there is an indication of impairment.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which they are allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further detail on the assumptions used in determining value in use calculations is provided in note 14. ii Valuation of Intangible Assets Product rights, commercial relationships and brand intangibles that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Fair value at the date of acquisition reflects managements estimate of the fair value of the individual intangible asset calculated by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to the Group from the utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Other intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated at cost, which might include future milestone and royalty payments.
The measurement of these reflect managements best estimate as to future performance, discounted at an appropriate rate.
iii Taxation The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based upon future taxable income and the expected recoverability of the balance.
The estimate will include assumptions regarding future income streams of the Group and the future movement in corporation tax rates in the respective jurisdictions.
In respect of uncertain tax positions, where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made, management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
The estimate of liabilities in respect of current taxation depends on estimates and judgements in respect of whether or not, and the extent to which, items of income and expenditure will be taxable.
At 30 June 2018 the Group held a current provision of 2.6 million 2017: 2.4 million in respect of uncertain tax provisions.
Liabilities relating to these open and judgemental matters are based on an assessment as to whether additional taxes will be due, after taking into account external advice where appropriate.
The resolution of these tax matters may take many years.
The Group does not expect to materially increase its uncertain tax provision in the next 12 months.
iv Non-underlying Items The Group presents a number of non-GAAP measures.
This is to allow investors to understand the underlying performance of the Group, excluding items associated with areas such as rationalisation, acquisition and disposal related expenses and income including amortisation and impairment on acquired intangibles, non-cash inventory adjustments, and the remeasurement and other movements on deferred and contingent consideration, debt refinancing including any loss on extinguishment of debt, impairment of investments and the rationalisation of the manufacturing organisation and taxation credits.
Judgement is associated with the classification of these items.
The costs incurred in making acquisitions and their integration are deemed to be non-underlying as they do not relate to the sales and profit from ongoing trading activities.
116 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
