Accounting Policies continued q Provisions Provisions for legal claims, environmental remediation, deferred rent and advanced grants for property, plant and equipment are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required on settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
r Basis of Charge for Taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current and deferred taxes are recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the consolidated statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the consolidated statement of financial position liability method and represents the tax payable or recoverable on most temporary differences which arise between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes the tax base.
Temporary differences are not provided on: goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and do not arise from a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, and is based upon tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the consolidated statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is not probable that the related tax benefit will be realised against future taxable profits.
The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each consolidated statement of financial position date.
In respect of uncertain tax positions, where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made, management provides for its best estimate of the liability.
In calculating any such liability a risk based approach is applied which takes into account, as appropriate, the probability that the Group would be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
The estimated annual benefit of global intellectual property and innovation incentives is accounted for within current and deferred tax.
Current and deferred tax credits received in respect of share-based payments are recognised in the income statement to the extent that they do not exceed the standard rate of taxation on the income statement charge for share-based payments.
Credits in excess of the standard rate of taxation are recognised directly in equity.
s Earnings per Share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for the effects of all potential dilutive ordinary shares, which comprise share options granted to employees.
The Group has also chosen to present an alternative EPS measure, with profit adjusted for non-underlying items.
A reconciliation of this alternative measure to the statutory measure required by IFRS is given in the Financial Review on page 20.
A breakdown of the nonunderlying items is given in notes 4 and 5.
Operating Segments The Group has three reportable segments, as discussed below, which are based on information provided to the Board of Directors, which is deemed to be the Groups chief operating decision maker.
Several operating segments which have similar economic characteristics have been aggregated into the reporting segments.
In undertaking this aggregation the assessment determined that the aggregated segments have similar products, production processes, customers and overall regulatory environment.
The European Pharmaceuticals Segment comprises Dechra Veterinary Products EU, Dechra Veterinary Products International and Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing.
This Segment operates internationally and manufactures and markets Companion Animal, Equine, Food producing Animal Products and Nutrition.
This Segment also includes third party manufacturing and other non-core activities sales.
The Segment expanded during the year with the acquisition of RxVet Limited, AST Farma B. V. and Le Vet Beheer B. V. The North American Pharmaceuticals Segment consists of Dechra Veterinary Products US, Putney, Dechra Veterinary Products Canada, and Dechra-Brovel, which sells Companion Animal, Equine Products and Food producing Animal Products in those territories.
The Segment also includes our manufacturing unit based in Melbourne, Florida.
The Pharmaceuticals Research and Development Segment includes all of the Groups pharmaceutical research and development activities.
From a Board perspective, this Segment has no revenue income.
Stock Code: DPH 123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Operating Segments continued Reconciliation of reportable segment revenues, profit or loss and liabilities and other material items: 2018 2017 m m Revenue by segment European Pharmaceuticals total 258.7 226.9 NA Pharmaceuticals total 148.4 132.4 407.1 359.3 Operating profit loss by segment European Pharmaceuticals 77.0 60.7 NA Pharmaceuticals 48.3 43.2 Pharmaceuticals Research and Development 18.3 15.0 Segment operating profit 107.0 88.9 Corporate and other unallocated costs 7.8 7.6 Underlying operating profit 99.2 81.3 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 54.1 40.4 Remeasurement of contingent consideration 0.1 Impairment of assets available for sale 0.6 Fair value uplift of inventory acquired through business combinations 5.1 4.2 Rationalisation costs on business acquisitions 0.8 Rationalisation of manufacturing organisation 2.9 Expenses relating to acquisition activities 3.1 2.1 Total operating profit 34.1 33.2 Finance income 1.5 0.8 Finance expense 6.4 5.3 Share of losses in investment accounted for using the equity method 0.3 0.1 Profit before taxation 28.9 28.6 Total liabilities by segment European Pharmaceuticals 79.6 73.7 NA Pharmaceuticals 31.0 20.2 Pharmaceuticals Research and Development 1.4 0.4 Segment liabilities 112.0 94.3 Corporate loans and revolving credit facility 291.1 181.2 Corporate accruals and other payables 6.5 8.2 Current and deferred tax liabilities 102.7 51.8 512.3 335.5 Revenue by product category CAP 266.7 223.8 Equine 34.4 27.2 FAP 48.7 47.3 Nutrition 29.4 27.5 Other 27.9 33.5 407.1 359.3 Additions to intangible non-current assets by segment including through business combinations European Pharmaceuticals 370.2 64.5 NA Pharmaceuticals 6.9 4.4 Pharmaceuticals Research and Development 0.4 1.4 Corporate and central costs 0.5 0.1 378.0 70.4 124 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
