138 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 139 Statement of Directors Independent auditors report TO THE MEMBERS OF DERWENT LONDON PLC responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, Report on the audit of the financial statements Our audit approach thereport of the Remuneration Committee and the financial takenasa whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Opinion Overview statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
providesthe information necessary for shareholders to assess In our opinion, Derwent London plcs group financial statements Materiality Materiality theGroups position, performance, business model and strategy.
andcompany financial statements the financial statements : Overall group materiality: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 53.2million 2017: 50.1 million, for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the based on 1% of total assets.
the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with pages 88 and 89, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups Specific group materiality: Audit scope International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the profit and the groups and the companys cash flows for the year 4.0million 2017: 4.0 million EU.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in then ended: applied to property and other statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair have been properly prepared in accordance with International income, administrative expenses, view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the provisions and working capital Key audit profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial loss of the Group: and European Union and, as regards the companys financial balances.
matters statements, the Directors are required to: The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions Overall company materiality: and performance of the business and the position of the Group, oftheCompanies Act 2006: and 41.5 million 2017: 34.2 million, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them together with a description of the principal risks and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of based on 2% of total assets.
consistently: uncertainties that it faces.
theCompanies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Scope and prudent: The financial statements on pages 145 to 199 were approved We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European bytheBoard of Directors and signed on its behalf by: We have audited the financial statements, included within the Report enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Union have been followed, subject to any material departures and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Balance statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and John Burns sheets as at 31 December 2018: the Group income statement and structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Chief Executive Group statement of comprehensive income, the Cash flow and the industry in which the Group operates.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will statements, and the Statements of changes in equity for the year The Groups properties are spread across 28 statutory entities continue in business.
Damian Wisniewski then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include with the Group financial statements being a consolidation of Finance Director a description of the significant accounting policies.
these entities, the Company and the Groups joint ventures.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 26 February 2019 Eachstatutory entity which owned a property was identified records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
asrequiring an audit of its complete financial information, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time eitherdue to size, risk characteristics or statutory requirements.
thefinancial position of the Company and the Group and enable Basis for opinion Thiswork, all of which was carried out by the Group audit team, them to ensure that the financial statements and the report of the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards together with additional procedures performed on the Remuneration Committee comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities consolidation, gave us sufficient appropriate audit evidence as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities forour opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Webelieve that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient Key audit matters for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
andappropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Valuation of investment properties Group.
Compliance with REIT guidelines Group.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Independence Accounting for borrowings and derivatives Group and parent.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing We remained independent of the group in accordance with the the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial The scope of our audit from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and asapplicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made requirements.
subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company.
Other than those disclosed in note 10 to the financial statements, wehave provided no non-audit services to the group or the company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
