204 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 205 PRINCIPAL PROPERTIES CONTINUED LIST OF DEFINITIONS Offices O, Retail UNAUDITED restaurant R, Residential Re, Approximate Value banding Industrial I, Freehold F, net area m Leisure L Leasehold L sq ft West End: Borders 9% Building Research Establishment Environmental EPRA earnings Islington Camden 9% Assessment Method BREEAM Earnings from operational activities.
An environmental impact assessment method for non-domestic Angel Building, 407 St. John Street EC1 200 O R F 261,900 buildings.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings: EPRA net asset value Angel Square EC1 50-100 O F 126,200 Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
NAV adjusted to include trading properties and other investment 4 & 10 Pentonville Road N1 50-100 O F 53,400 interests at fair value and to exclude certain items not expected 401 St. John Street EC1 0-25 O F 12,300 Capital return tocrystallise in a long-term investment property business model.
The annual valuation movement arising on the Groups portfolio expressed as a percentage return on the valuation at the beginning EPRA triple net asset value City: Borders 37% ofthe year adjusted for acquisitions and capital expenditure.
EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair values of i financial Clerkenwell 12% instruments, ii debt and iii deferred taxes on revaluations, 20 Farringdon Road EC1 100-200 O R L L 166,300 Carbon Disclosure Project CDP whereapplicable.
88 Rosebery Avenue EC1 50-100 O F 103,700 The CDP is an organisation which works with shareholders and listed Morelands, 5-27 Old Street EC1 50-100 O R L 89,000 companies to facilitate the disclosure and reporting of climate EPRA cost ratio including direct vacancy costs The Buckley Building, 49 Clerkenwell Green EC1 50-100 O R F 85,100 change data and information.
EPRA costs as a percentage of gross rental income less ground Turnmill, 63 Clerkenwell Road EC1 50-100 O R F 70,300 rent including share of joint venture gross rental income less Carbon emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 ground rent.
EPRA costs include administrative expenses, 19 Charterhouse Street EC1 50-100 O F 63,700 Scope 1 direct emissions: otherproperty costs, net service charge costs and the share 5-8 Hardwick Street and 161 Rosebery Avenue EC1 25-50 O F 35,000 Scope 2 indirect emissions: and ofjoint ventures overheads and operating expenses net of any 151 Rosebery Avenue EC1 0-25 O F 24,000 Scope 3 other indirect emissions.
service charge costs, adjusted for service charge costs recovered 3-4 Hardwick Street EC1 0-25 O F 12,000 through rents and management fees.
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Old Street 11% DEFRA EPRA cost ratio excluding direct vacancy costs White Collar Factory, Old Street Yard EC1 200 O R Re F 291,400 The government department responsible for environmental Calculated as above, but with an adjustment to exclude direct protection, food production and standards, agriculture, fisheries vacancy costs.
1 Olivers Yard EC1 100-200 O R F 185,100 andrural communities in the United Kingdom.
The Featherstone Building EC1 0-50 O R F EPRA net initial yield NIY Diluted figures Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at Shoreditch Whitechapel 9% Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potential dilutive thebalance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating Tea Building, 56 Shoreditch High Street E1 200 O R L F 269,300 shares issuable under the Groups share option schemes and the expenses, divided by the market value of the EPRA property The White Chapel Building E1 200 O F 272,900 convertible bonds.
portfolio, increased by estimated purchasers costs.
Earnings earnings per share EPS EPRA topped-up net initial yield Holborn 5% Earnings represent the profit or loss for the year attributable to This measure incorporates an adjustment to the EPRA NIY Johnson Building, 77 Hatton Garden EC1 100-200 O R F 158,100 equity shareholders and are divided by the weighted average number inrespect of the expiration of rent free periods or other 40 Chancery Lane WC2 100-200 O R L 103,700 of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year to arrive at unexpiredlease incentives such as discounted rent periods 6-7 St. Cross Street EC1 25-50 O F 33,800 earnings per share.
Provincial 2% Energy Performance Certificate EPC EPRA vacancy rate An EPC is an asset rating detailing how energy efficient a building is, Estimated rental value ERV of immediately available space Scotland 2% rated by carbon dioxide emission on a scale of A-G, where an A rating divided by the ERV of the EPRA portfolio.
Strathkelvin Retail Park, Bishopbriggs, Glasgow 50-100 R L F 325,500 is the most energy efficient.
They are legally required for any building Land, Bishopbriggs, Glasgow 25-50 F 5,300 acres that is to be put on the market for sale or rent.
In addition, the Group has adopted the following recommendation 1 Includes North of Oxford Street.
Estimated rental value ERV Percentages weighted by valuation.
This is the external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, EPRA like-for-like rental income growth on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained The growth in rental income on properties owned throughout the Tech Belt 44% on a new letting or rent review of a property.
current and previous year under review.
This growth rate includes revenue recognition and lease accounting adjustments but European Public Real Estate Association EPRA excludes properties held for development in either year and A not-for-profit association with a membership of Europes leading properties acquired or disposed of in either year.
property companies, investors and consultants which strives to establish best practices in accounting, reporting and corporate Fair value adjustment governance and to provide high-quality information to investors.
An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset EPRA published its latest Best Practices Recommendations in orliability to its market value.
This includes guidelines for the calculation of the following performance measures which the Group has adopted.
206 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 207 LIST OF DEFINITIONS CONTINUED Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark MSCI Inc. MSCI IPD Reversion Weighted average unexpired lease term WAULT GRESB MSCI Inc. is a company that produces independent benchmarks of The reversion is the amount by which ERV is higher than the rent roll The average lease term remaining to first tenant break, or expiry, The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark is an initiative property returns.
The Group measures its performance against both of a property or portfolio.
The reversion is derived from contractual across theportfolio weighted by contracted net rental income.
In setup to assess the environmental and social performance of the Central London Offices Index and the UK All Property Index.
rental increases, rent reviews, lease renewals and the letting of addition, we quote a WAULT that includes the rent contracted from publicand private real estate investments and allow investors space that is vacant and available to occupy or under development the expiry of rent-free periods and uplifts top-ups, and from tounderstand their performance.
Net debt divided by net assets.
Global 100 most sustainable companies Scrip dividend Yields The Global 100 Index is a ranking of the worlds most sustainable Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Derwent London plc sometimes offers its shareholders the Net initial yield corporations.
The list is compiled by Toronto-based media and Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares opportunity to receive dividends in the form of shares instead Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at investment advisory firm Corporate Knights.
Each year, the latest in issue at the balance sheet date.
This is known as a scrip dividend.
thebalance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating iteration of the index is announced at the World Economic Forum expenses, divided by the market value of the property, increased inDavos, Switzerland.
Net debt SKA byestimated purchasers costs.
Borrowings plus bank overdraft less cash and cash equivalents.
SKA is a sustainability rating method developed specifically for Ground rent fit-out projects.
It sets out a range of good practice criteria and Reversionary yield The rent payable by the Group for its leasehold properties.
Net interest cover ratio measures.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings The anticipated yield, which the net initial yield will rise once the UnderIFRS, these leases are treated as finance leases and the Net property income, excluding all non-core items divided by interest Bronze, Silver and Gold.
rentreaches the estimated rental values.
costallocated between interest payable and property outgoings.
payable on borrowings and non-utilisation fees.
Topped-up rent True equivalent yield Headroom Property income distribution PID Annualised rents generated by the portfolio plus rent contracted The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows This is the amount left to draw under the Groups loan facilities Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property rental from expiry of rent free periods and uplifts agreed at the balance from the portfolio, including current rent, reversions to valuers i. e. the total loan facilities less amounts already drawn.
business under the REIT regulations.
estimated rental value and such items as voids and expenditures, equates to the valuation having taken into account notional International Energy Agencys IEA Energy Non-PID Total property return TPR purchasers costs.
Rent is assumed to be received quarterly in Technology Perspectives ETP Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
Total property return is a performance measure calculated by the advance.
The IEAs ETP 2C scenario describes an energy system consistent MSCI IPD and defined in the MSCI Global Methodology Standards with an emissions trajectory that recent climate science research Real Estate Investment Trust REIT forReal Estate Investment as the percentage value change plus Yield shift indicates would give an 80% chance of limiting average global The UK Real Estate Investment Trust REIT regime was launched netincome accrual, relative to the capital employed.
A movement in the yield of a property asset, or like-for-like portfolio, temperature increase to 2C.
On 1 July 2007, Derwent London plc elected to over a given year.
Yield compression is a commonly-used term for convert to REIT status.
Total return areduction in yields.
Interest rate swap The movement in EPRA adjusted net asset value per share on a A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange The REIT legislation was introduced to provide a structure which diluted basis between the beginning and the end of each financial aninterest rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
closely mirrors the tax outcomes of direct ownership in property year plus the dividend per share paid during the year expressed Theseare generally used by the Group to convert floating rate debt andremoves tax inequalities between different real estate investors.
asapercentage of the EPRA net asset value per share on a diluted tofixed rates.
It provides a liquid and publicly available vehicle which opens the basis at the beginning of the year.
property market to a wide range of investors.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs Total shareholder return TSR Activities and behaviours, aligned to both business objectives A REIT is exempt from corporation tax on qualifying income and gains The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London andindividual goals, against which the performance of the Group of its property rental business providing various conditions are met.
Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the year, isannually assessed.
Performance measured against them is It remains subject to corporation tax on non-exempt income and expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning referenced in the Annual Report.
gains e. g. interest income, trading activity and development fees.
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design REITs must distribute at least 90% of the Groups income profits from Transmission and distribution T&D LEED its tax exempt property rental business, by way of dividend, known The emissions associated with the transmission and distribution LEED is a US based environmental impact assessment method as a property income distribution.
These distributions can be subject losses in the grid from the transportation of electricity from its forbuildings.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings to withholding tax at 20%.
Certified, Silver, Gold and Platinum.
If the Group distributes profits from the non-tax exempt business, Underlying portfolio Lease incentives the distribution will be taxed as an ordinary dividend in the hands Properties that have been held for the whole of the year Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
i. e. excludingany acquisitions or disposals made during the year.
incentive will be an initial rent free or half rent period, stepped rents, or a cash contribution to fit-out or similar costs.
Rent reviews Underlying valuation increase Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease typically The valuation increase on the underlying portfolio.
Loan-to-value ratio LTV every five years and their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to Drawn debt net of cash divided by the fair value of the property thecurrent market level at the review date.
For upwards only rent Well to tank WTT portfolio.
Drawn debt is equal to drawn facilities less cash and reviews, the rent will either remain at the same level or increase The emissions associated with extracting, refining and transporting theunamortised equity element of the convertible bonds.
ifmarket rents are higher at the review date.
raw fuel to the vehicle, asset or process under scrutiny.
Mark-to-market Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous The difference between the book value of an asset or liability and Occurrences Regulations RIDDORs itsmarket value.
The regulations place a legal duty on employers to report workrelated deaths, major injuries or over-three-day injuries, workrelated diseases and dangerous occurrences near miss accidents to the Health and Safety Executive.
