150 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 151 3 Significant judgements, key assumptions and 4 Segmental information estimates IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS identified on the basis of internal financial reports about requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 judgements.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in operating decision maker which in the Groups case is the Executive the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The Groups Committee comprising the six executive Directors and six senior significant accounting policies are stated in note 41.
Not all of these managers in order to allocate resources to the segments and to accounting policies require management to make difficult, subjective assess their performance.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 Basis of preparation or complex judgements or estimates.
Estimates and judgements are effectivefrom 1 January 2018 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and The internal financial reports received by the Groups Executive IFRS 15 combines a number of previous standards, setting out a five withInternational Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted other factors, including expectations of future events that are Committee contain financial information at a Group level as a whole step model for the recognition of revenue and establishing principles bytheEuropean Union IFRS, IFRS Interpretations Committee believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Although these and there are no reconciling items between the results contained in for reporting useful information to users of financial statements interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the these reports and the amounts reported in the financial statements.
about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue.
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial amount, event or actions, actual results may differ from those These internal financial reports include the IFRS figures but also Thestandard is applicable to service charge income, facilities statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention estimates.
The following is intended to provide an understanding of report the non-IFRS figures for the EPRA earnings and net asset management income, investment property disposals and trading as modified by the revaluation of investment properties, property, the policies that management consider critical because of the level value.
Reconciliations of each of these figures to their statutory property disposals, but excludes rent receivable, which is within the plant and equipment and financial assets and liabilities held of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application equivalents are detailed in note 38.
Additionally, information is scope of IFRS 16.
The Group has completed its assessment of IFRS fortrading.
and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
provided to the Executive Committee showing gross property income 15 and concludes that its adoption has no material impact on the and property valuation by individual property.
Therefore, for the financial statements.
Going concern Key sources of estimation uncertainty purposes of IFRS 8, each individual property is considered to be a The Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Property portfolio valuation separate operating segment in that its performance is monitored Standards in issue but not yet effective these consolidated financial statements.
In considering this The Group uses the valuation carried out by external valuers as individually.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations were requirement, the Directors have taken into account the following: thefair value of its property portfolio.
The valuation is based inissue at the date of approval of these financial statements but uponassumptions including future rental income, anticipated The Groups property portfolio includes investment property, were not yet effective for the current accounting year and have not The Groups latest rolling forecast for the next two years, in maintenance costs, future development costs and the appropriate owner-occupied property and trading property and comprised 1 been adopted early.
Based on the Groups current circumstances, particular the cash flows, borrowings and undrawn facilities.
The valuers also make reference to market evidence 97%office buildings by value at 31 December 2018 2017: 97%.
the Directors do not anticipate that their adoption in future periods Sensitivity analysis is included within these forecasts.
oftransaction prices for similar properties.
More information is TheDirectors consider that these individual properties have similar will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The headroom under the Groups financial covenants.
provided in note 16. economic characteristics and therefore have been aggregated into a The current and forecast risks included on the Groups risk single operating segment.
The remaining 3% 2017: 3% represented IFRS 9 amended Prepayment Features with Negative register that could impact on the Groups liquidity and solvency Borrowings and derivatives a mixture of retail, hotel, residential and light industrial properties, Compensation: over the next 12 months from the date of signing.
The fair values of the Groups borrowings and interest rate swaps aswell as land, each of which is fide minimis in its own right and below IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts: arebased on estimates provided by independent third parties.
the quantitative threshold in aggregate.
Therefore, in the view of the IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments: Theestimates are based on the terms of each of the financial Directors, there is one reportable segment under the provisions of 2 Changes in accounting policies IAS 28 amended Long-term interest in Associates and Joint instruments using data available in the financial markets.
The principal accounting policies are described in note 41 and are Ventures: Moreinformation is provided in note 23. consistent with those applied in the Groups financial statements for IAS 19 amended Plan Amendment, Curtailment of Settlement: All of the Groups properties are based in the UK.
No geographical the year to 31 December 2017, as amended to reflect the adoption Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015 2017 cycle.
Significant judgements grouping is contained in any of the internal financial reports provided ofnew standards, amendments and interpretations which became Compliance with the real estate investment trust REIT to the Groups Executive Committee and, therefore, no geographical effective in the year as shown below.
IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 taxation regime segmental analysis is required by IFRS 8.
However, geographical This standard does not substantially affect the accounting for rental As a consequence of the Groups REIT status, income and chargeable analysis is included in the tables below to provide users with New standards adopted during the year income earned by the Group as lessor.
The main impact of the gains on the qualifying property rental business are exempt from additional information regarding the areas contained in the Strategic The following standards, amendments and interpretations standard is the removal of the distinction between operating and corporation tax.
The majority of the Groups properties are located in London endorsedby the EU were effective for the first time for the Groups finance leases for lessees, which will result in almost all leases being West End central, West End borders and City borders, with the 31December 2018 year end and had no material impact on the recognised on the balance sheet.
As the Group does not hold any In order for the Group to remain in the REIT regime, it is subject to remainder in Scotland Provincial.
material operating leases as lessee, the impact of the standard is anumber of criteria that it must meet in each accounting period.
1 Some office buildings have an ancillary element such as retail or residential.
notexpected to be material to the financial statements.
TheGroup comfortably met all the criteria in 2018 ensuring its REIT IFRS 2 amended Share Based Payments: status is maintained.
The Directors intend that the Group should IFRS 4 amended Insurance Contracts: continue as a REIT for the foreseeable future.
IAS 40 amended Investment Property: IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Income that does not qualify as property income within the REIT Consideration: rules is subject to corporation tax in the normal way.
Such income Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 cycle.
includes development fees, interest income, sale of trading properties and our interest in unelected joint ventures.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective from 1 January 2018 This standard applies to classification and measurement of financial The Group has maintained its low risk rating with HMRC due to the assets and financial liabilities, impairment provisioning and hedge continued regular dialogue we maintain with them and our accounting.
The Groups assessment of IFRS 9 determined that transparent approach.
themain area of potential impact was impairment provisioning on trade receivables, given the requirement to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model.
However, the Group concludes that thishas no material impact on its financial statements.
