Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Accounting information and policies DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 107 This section describes the basis of preparation of the consolidated financial Accounting statements and the groups accounting policies that are applicable to the financial statements as a whole.
Accounting policies, critical accounting information estimates and judgements that are specific to a note are included in the note to which they relate.
This section also explains new accounting and policies standards, amendments and interpretations, that the group has adopted in the current financial year or will adopt in subsequent years.
Accounting information and policies The income statements and cash flows of non-sterling entities are a Basis of preparation translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the with the Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on the Standards IFRS and related interpretations as adopted for use in the retranslation to closing rates are taken to the exchange reserve.
European Union EU and as issued by the International Accounting Assets and liabilities are translated at closing rates.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain differences arising on the retranslation at closing rates of the opening respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The differences have no balance sheets of overseas entities are taken to the exchange reserve, impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the years as are exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings presented.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on and financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, unless the extent that they are effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on stated otherwise in the relevant accounting policy.
such items are also taken to the exchange reserve.
Gains and losses The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS accumulated in the exchange reserve are recycled to the income statement when the foreign operation is sold.
Other exchange requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of differences are taken to the income statement.
Transactions in contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses of the transaction.
The principal foreign exchange rates used in the translation of during the year.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
financial statements for the three years ended 30 June 2018, b Going concern expressed in US dollars and euros per 1, were as follows: The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going 2018 2017 2016 concern basis.
US dollar i c Consolidation Income statement and cash flows 1.35 1.27 1.48 ii The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Assets and liabilities 1.32 1.30 1.33 company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable Euro share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
A subsidiary is an i Income statement and cash flows 1.13 1.16 1.34 entity controlled by Diageo plc.
The group controls an investee when ii Assets and liabilities 1.13 1.14 1.20 it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement i Weighted average rates with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through ii Year end rates its power over the investee.
Where the group has the ability to exercise joint control over an entity but has rights to specified assets The group uses foreign exchange hedges to mitigate the effect of and obligations for liabilities of that entity, the entity is included on exchange rate movements.
For further information see note 15. the basis of the groups rights over those assets and liabilities.
d Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
