Financial statements of the company: 152 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Notes to the company financial statements of Diageo plc 3.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings reporting purposes and their value for tax purposes.
The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected recoverable amount and is million based on the expected manner of recovery or settlement of the Cost less provisions carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using the basis of taxation At 30 June 2017 27,041 enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred Additions a 2 tax assets are not recognised where it is more likely than not that the At 30 June 2018 27,043 assets will not be realised in the future.
Financial instruments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at historical cost Financial assets and liabilities are initially recorded at fair value of 27,329 million 2017 27,327 million less impairment provisions including, where permitted by IFRS 9, any directly attributable of 286 million 2017 286 million.
For those financial assets that are not subsequently a Investment in subsidiary undertakings include 129 million 2017 held at fair value, the company assesses whether there is evidence 127 million of costs in respect of share-based payments, of impairment at each balance sheet date.
granted to subsidiary undertakings which were not recharged to The company classifies its financial assets and liabilities into the the subsidiaries.
The additions of 2 million comprise the amount following categories: financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost, not recharged and capitalised as a cost of investment during the financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss.
Where financial assets or liabilities are eligible to be carried at either A list of group companies as at 30 June 2018 is provided in note 11. amortised cost or fair value the company does not apply the fair value option.
Non-interest bearing receivables and payables are 4.
Financial instruments stated at their nominal value which is equal to amortised cost as Other financial assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value through they are due on demand.
profit and loss and comprise the fair value of interest rate swaps and For a number of loans owed to other group companies, the cross currency interest rate swaps with subsidiary undertakings, company has a contractual right to defer payment by one year where the company acts as an intermediary between group and one day and therefore these amounts are disclosed as companies, therefore it is not expected that there will be any net non-current liabilities.
impact on future cash flows.
Allowances for expected credit losses are made based on the risk Amounts owed by and to group undertakings, trade and of non-payment taking into account ageing, previous experience, other receivables and trade and other payables are measured economic conditions and forward looking data.
Such allowances are at amortised cost.
measured as either 12-months expected credit losses or lifetime 5.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities expected credit losses depending on changes in the credit quality The amounts of deferred tax accounted for in the balance sheet of-the counterparty.
comprises the following net deferred tax assets liabilities : Financial guarantee contract liabilities Post Other Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their employment temporary plans differences Total fair values.
These liabilities are subsequently measured at the higher million million million of the amount determined under IAS 37 and the amount initially At 30 June 2016 28 43 71 recognised fair value less where appropriate, cumulative Recognised in income statement 6 6 amortisation of the initial amount recognised.
Recognised in other comprehensive income and equity 40 1 41 Critical accounting judgements At 30 June 2017 18 42 24 The companys critical accounting policies, which the Directors consider are of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the Recognised in income statement 3 2 5 exercise of judgements are the same as those disclosed in note 1 Recognised in other comprehensive income and equity 108 1 109 to the consolidated financial statements in respect of taxation, post-employment benefits, contingent liabilities and legal At 30 June 2018 129 39 90 proceedings.
A critical accounting judgement, specific to the company, is the assessment that the recoverable amount of the Deferred tax on other temporary differences includes assets companys investment in subsidiaries is greater than the in respect of the UK Thalidomide Trust liability of 35 million carrying amount.
2017 36 million and share-based payment liabilities of 4 million 2017 6 million.
Income statement Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements provides details of the remuneration of the companys auditor for the group.
Information on directors emoluments, share and other interests, transactions and pension entitlements is included in the Directors remuneration report in this Annual Report.
