Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Accounting information and policies DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 107 This section describes the basis of preparation of the consolidated financial Accounting statements and the groups accounting policies that are applicable to the financial statements as a whole.
Accounting policies, critical accounting information estimates and judgements that are specific to a note are included in the note to which they relate.
This section also explains new accounting and policies standards, amendments and interpretations, that the group has adopted in the current financial year or will adopt in subsequent years.
Accounting information and policies The income statements and cash flows of non-sterling entities are a Basis of preparation translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the with the Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on the Standards IFRS and related interpretations as adopted for use in the retranslation to closing rates are taken to the exchange reserve.
European Union EU and as issued by the International Accounting Assets and liabilities are translated at closing rates.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain differences arising on the retranslation at closing rates of the opening respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The differences have no balance sheets of overseas entities are taken to the exchange reserve, impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the years as are exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings presented.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on and financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, unless the extent that they are effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on stated otherwise in the relevant accounting policy.
such items are also taken to the exchange reserve.
Gains and losses The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS accumulated in the exchange reserve are recycled to the income statement when the foreign operation is sold.
Other exchange requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of differences are taken to the income statement.
Transactions in contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses of the transaction.
The principal foreign exchange rates used in the translation of during the year.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
financial statements for the three years ended 30 June 2018, b Going concern expressed in US dollars and euros per 1, were as follows: The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going 2018 2017 2016 concern basis.
US dollar i c Consolidation Income statement and cash flows 1.35 1.27 1.48 ii The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Assets and liabilities 1.32 1.30 1.33 company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable Euro share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
A subsidiary is an i Income statement and cash flows 1.13 1.16 1.34 entity controlled by Diageo plc.
The group controls an investee when ii Assets and liabilities 1.13 1.14 1.20 it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement i Weighted average rates with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through ii Year end rates its power over the investee.
Where the group has the ability to exercise joint control over an entity but has rights to specified assets The group uses foreign exchange hedges to mitigate the effect of and obligations for liabilities of that entity, the entity is included on exchange rate movements.
For further information see note 15. the basis of the groups rights over those assets and liabilities.
d Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
108 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Financial statements of the group: Accounting information and policies e Critical accounting estimates and judgements f New accounting standards and interpretations The critical accounting policies, which the directors consider are The following amendments to the accounting standards, issued by of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise the IASB which have been endorsed by the EU, have been adopted of judgements, are set out in detail in the relevant notes: by the group from 1 July 2017 with no impact on the groups consolidated results, financial position or disclosures: Exceptional items management judgement whether exceptional or not page 114 Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure initiative Taxation management judgement of whether a provision Amendment to IAS 12 Recognition of deferred tax assets for is required and the recoverability of deferred tax assets and unrealised losses management estimate of amount of corporate tax payable Amendment to IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities or receivable page 117 The following standards issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU Brands, goodwill and other intangibles have been early adopted by the group from 1 July 2017: management judgement of the assets to be recognised and synergies resulting from an acquisition and management IFRS 9 Financial instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments estimate in determining future cash flows and appropriate Recognition and measurement and addresses the classification applicable assumptions to support the intangible asset value and measurement of financial instruments, introduces new principles page 122 for hedge accounting and a new forward-looking impairment model Post employment benefits management judgement in for financial assets.
determining whether a surplus can be recovered and The adoption of IFRS 9 hedge accounting principles did not result management estimate in determining the assumptions in a restatement of the groups results and the impact on the year in calculating the liabilities of the funds page 126 ended 30 June 2018 is not material.
The adoption of IFRS 9 did not result in any changes in the measurement or classification of financial Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings management judgement in assessing the likelihood of whether a liability instruments as at 1 July 2017.
All classes of financial assets and financial liabilities had as at 1 July 2017 the same carrying values will arise page 143 under IFRS 9 as they had under IAS 39.
Venezuela is a hyper-inflationary economy where the government Diageos principal associate, Mot Hennessy has adopted IFRS 9. maintains a regime of strict currency controls with multiple foreign This has no impact on Diageos share of the net assets of Mot currency rate systems.
Access to US dollars on these exchange Hennessy but resulted in a decrease in the groups hedging reserve systems is very limited.
The foreign currency denominated of 3 million with a corresponding increase in retained earnings.
transactions and balances of the groups Venezuelan operations This change has been disclosed as a movement in the year ended are translated into the local functional currency Venezuelan bolivar 30 June 2018. at the rate they are expected to be settled, applying the most IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers provides enhanced appropriate official exchange rate DICOM.
For consolidation detail on the principle of recognising revenue to reflect the concept purposes, the group converts its Venezuelan operations using that revenue should be recognised when the control of goods or managements estimate of the exchange rate considering forecast services is transferred to the customer at a value that the company inflation and the most appropriate official exchange rate.
The is expected to receive.
It replaces the separate models for goods, exchange rate used to translate the results of the groups the services and construction contracts under previous IFRS IAS 11, IAS Venezuelan operations was VEF GBP 3,858,826 for the year ended 18 and related interpretations which was based on the concept of 30 June 2018 2017 VEF GBP 6,110. the transfer of risks and rewards.
It also provides further guidance on The following table presents the contribution of the groups the initial measurement of sales on contracts which have discounts, Venezuelan operations to the consolidated income statement, cash rebates and consignment inventories by identifying separate flow statement and net assets for the year ended 30 June 2018 and performance obligations that may apply.
with the amounts that would have resulted if the official DICOM During the year ended 30 June 2017 the group carried out exchange rate had been applied: a detailed review of the recognition criteria for revenue applying At estimated the requirements of IFRS 15 to ensure that the same principles were exchange rate At DICOM 3,858,826 VEF exchange rate being applied consistently across the group.
This review in particular GBP 151,800 VEF GBP examined promotional and marketing support payments made million million to customers post the initial sale of product, the timing of the Net sales 1 27 recognition of sales made where a third party manufactures or Operating profit 16 modifies a product on behalf of Diageo and consignment Other finance income hyperinflation inventories.
On application of IFRS 15 some changes in accounting adjustment 18 458 policy resulted, principally in respect of variable consideration Net cash inflow from operating activities 1 12 receivable where the criteria applied for deducting future Net assets 69 1,744 promotional payments from the initial revenue recognition was more stringent than under the former accounting policy.
Management have also ensured that this policy is being adopted consistently across the group.
The revised accounting policy establishes that revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a reversal in the amount of revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently settled.
This means that Diageo, under the revised accounting policy, deducts from the initial revenue recognised any Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Accounting information and policies DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 109 recognised on the balance sheet as right of use assets and future promotional payments to direct and indirect customers unless it is highly probable that they will not be incurred.
depreciated on a straight line basis.
The liability, recognised as part Diageo has adopted the modified retrospective transition of net borrowings, will be measured at a discounted value and any method, recognising the cumulative effect of initially applying IFRS15 interest will be charged to finance charges in the income statement.
Therefore, the charge to the income statement for the operating as an adjustment to the balance of retained earnings as at 1 July 2017.
Retained earnings at 1 July 2017 has been debited by 89 million.
lease payment will be replaced with depreciation on the right of The adjustment comprised an increase in creditors of 116 million, use asset and the interest charge inherent in the lease.
a decrease in debtors of 9 million, an increase in inventories of The group will implement IFRS 16 from 1 July 2019 by applying the modified retrospective method, meaning that the comparative 8 million, a decrease in non-controlling interests of 2 million and an increase in deferred tax assets of 26 million.
The changes in figures in the financial statements for the year ending 30 June 2020 accounting policy that resulted in these adjustments are principally will not be restated to show the impact of IFRS 16.
The operating in respect of variable consideration where the criteria for deducting leases which will be recorded on the balance sheet following implementation of IFRS 16 are principally in respect of warehouses, future promotional payments from the initial revenue recognition is more stringent than under the former accounting policy.
The revised office buildings, plant and machinery, cars and distribution vehicles.
accounting policy establishes that revenue is recognised to the The group has decided to reduce the complexity of implementation extent that it is highly probable that a reversal in the amount of to take advantage of a number of practical expedients on transition on 1 July 2019 namely: cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently settled.
i t o measure the right of use asset at the same value as the lease This means that Diageo, under the new accounting policy, deducts liability from the initial revenue recognised any future promotional payments ii to apply the short term and low value exemptions iii to treat, wherever possible, services provided as an income unless it is highly probable that they will not be incurred.
For the year ended 30 June 2018, as a result of applying the new statement item and only capitalise the lease payment amounts accounting policy, sales increased by 11 million, operating profit in respect of the asset The anticipated impact of the standard on the group is not yet increased by 12 million, taxation was 3 million higher and profit for the year increased by 9 million.
The operating profit benefit in the known though is not expected to be material on the income year was more than offset by the impact to sales and profit of statement or net assets though assets and liabilities will be grossed working capital efficiencies, including inventory reductions, delivered up for the net present value of the outstanding operating lease liabilities as at 1 July 2019.
See note 19 for information on gross by Diageos customers.
Consideration was also given to the disclosure of revenue into operating lease commitments.
It was determined that all revenue would The following standard, issued by the IASB has not been endorsed be disclosed as sale of goods as revenue from other sources by the EU and has not been adopted by the group: was immaterial.
IFRS 17 Insurance contracts effective in the year ending IFRIC agenda decision In October 2017 the IFRIC clarified that 30 June 2022 is ultimately intended to replace IFRS 4. interest and penalties in respect of corporate taxes should generally Based on a preliminary assessment the group believes that the be accounted for under IAS 37 rather than IAS 12 and therefore not adoption of IFRS 17 will not have a significant impact on its be disclosed in the income statement within Taxation.
For consolidated results or financial position.
comparative years Diageo disclosed interest and penalties in respect There are a number of other amendments and clarifications to of corporate taxes as part of Taxation in the consolidated income IFRS, effective in future years, which are not expected to significantly statement and consolidated balance sheet.
As a result of the impact the groups consolidated results or financial position.
clarification by the IFRIC Diageo has changed its accounting policy from 1 July 2017.
In addition, for consistency, Diageo has changed its treatment of interest arising on indirect tax.
For the year ended 30 June 2018, 10 million of interest and 2 million of penalties in respect of corporate tax and indirect taxes was charged to other finance charges and operating profit, respectively.
At 30 June 2017, the cumulative interest and penalties in respect of corporate tax included in Corporate tax payable in the consolidated balance sheet was 37 million.
At 30 June 2018 the cumulative interest in respect of corporate taxes is included in interest payable 34 million and penalties within other payables 2 million.
Interest and penalties in respect of indirect taxes in the consolidated balance sheet are immaterial.
Comparatives have not been restated as the amounts are immaterial.
The following standard issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU, has not yet been adopted by the group: IFRS 16 Leases effective in the year ending 30 June 2020 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both the lessee and the lessor.
It eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases currently required under IAS 17 and introduces a single lessee accounting model where the lessee is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all material leases.
All material leases will be
