Financial statements Financial statements of the company: Notes to the company financial statements of Diageo plc DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 151 Dividends paid and received Dividends are included in the financial statements in the financial Notes to the company year in which they are approved.
Dividends received are included in the financial statements in the year in which they are receivable.
financial statements of Share-based payments employee benefits Diageo plc The companys accounting policy for share-based payments is the same as set out in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Where the company grants options over its own shares to the 1.
Accounting policies of the company employees of its subsidiaries, it generally recharges the cost to the Basis of preparation relevant group company.
Where the amount is not recharged the The financial statements of Diageo plc the company are prepared value of the options is recognised as a capital contribution to the in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced subsidiaries and increases the cost of investment.
In preparing these financial statements, the company applies the Pensions and other post employment benefits recognition, measurement, and disclosure requirements of The companys accounting policy for post employment benefits International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU is the same as set out in note 13 to the consolidated financial IFRS, but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply statements.
with the Companies Act 2006 and has excluded certain information The company acts as sponsor of all UK post employment plans as permitted by FRS 101. for the benefit of employees and former employees throughout the The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis group.
There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for under the historical cost convention, except for certain financial charging the net defined benefit costs for the plan measured in instruments and post employment benefits which are stated at accordance with FRS 101, to other group companies whose their fair value.
employees participate in these group wide plans.
However, recharges By virtue of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the company to other group companies are made on a funding basis and are is exempt from presenting an income statement and disclosing credited against post employment service costs to the extent they employee numbers and staff costs.
The company has taken are in respect of current service.
The fair value of the plans assets less advantage of the exemption under FRS 101 from preparing a the present value of the plans liabilities are disclosed as a net asset or cash flow statement and related notes, disclosures in respect of net liability on the companys balance sheet as it is deemed to be the transactions and the capital management of wholly owned legal sponsor of these plans.
The net income charge credit reflects subsidiaries, the effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs and the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from service disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management in the current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.
As the consolidated financial statements of Diageo plc Past service costs are recognised in income.
The net interest cost include equivalent disclosures, the company has also utilised is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the exemptions available under FRS 101 from disclosing IFRS 2 defined benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets and Share-based Payment in respect of group settled share-based is included in the income statement.
Any differences due to changes payments, disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instruments in assumptions or experience are recognised in other Disclosures and by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
New accounting policies Provisions The following standards issued by the IASB and endorsed by the Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
A provision EU have been early adopted by the company from 1 July 2017: is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the group has a present IFRS 9 Financial instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and instruments Recognition and measurement and addresses the it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required classification and measurement of financial instruments, introduces to settle the obligation.
Provisions are calculated on a discounted new principles for hedge accounting and a new forward-looking basis.
The carrying amounts of provisions are reviewed at each impairment model for financial assets.
The adoption of IFRS 9 balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
principles did not result in any changes in the measurement and classification of financial instruments and had no impact on the Taxation balance sheet of the company for the year ended 30 June 2018.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit All classes of financial assets and financial liabilities had as at is different from accounting profit due to temporary differences 1 July 2017 the same carrying values under IFRS 9 as they had between accounting and tax treatments, and due to items that are under IAS 39. never taxable or tax deductible.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
Once Investment in subsidiaries considered to be probable, tax benefits are reviewed each year Investments in subsidiaries are stated at historical cost less to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition impairment provisions for any permanent decrease in value.
of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through The carrying amounts of the companys investments are reviewed negotiation and or litigation.
Tax provisions are included in current at each reporting date to determine whether there is an indication liabilities.
Penalties and interest on tax liabilities for the year ended of impairment.
If such an indication exists, then the assets 30 June 2018 are included in profit before taxation.
In prior years recoverable amount is estimated.
Losses are recognised in the penalties and interest on tax liabilities were provided for in the income statement and reflected in an allowance against the carrying tax charge.
When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment Full provision for deferred tax is made for temporary differences loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through between the carrying value of assets and liabilities for financial the income statement.
