Additional Information Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 161 requirement in respect of directors.
Directors may also be removed before the expiration of their term of office in accordance with the Additional information provisions of the Companies Acts.
for shareholders Voting rights Voting on any resolution at any general meeting of the company Related party transactions is by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show Transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 20 to the of hands, a every shareholder who is present in person at a general consolidated financial statements.
meeting, and every proxy appointed by any one shareholder and Share capital present at a general meeting, has have one vote regardless of the Major shareholders number of shares held by the shareholder or, subject to b, At 30 June 2018, the following substantial interests 3% or more in represented by the proxy, and b every proxy present at a general the companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been meeting who has been appointed by more than one shareholder has notified to the company.
one vote regardless of the number of shareholders who have appointed him or the number of shares held by those shareholders, Percentage of issued unless he has been instructed to vote for a resolution by one or more ordinary share shareholders and to vote against the resolution by one or more capital Number of excluding Date of shareholders, in which case he has one vote for and one vote against ordinary treasury notification the resolution.
Shareholder shares shares of interest On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy BlackRock Investment 3 December Management UK Limited has one vote for every share held by that shareholder, but a indirect holding 147,296,928 5.89% 2009 shareholder or proxy entitled to more than one vote need not cast all Capital Research and his votes or cast them all in the same way the deadline for exercising Management Company voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
indirect holding 124,653,096 4.99% 28 April 2009 A poll may be demanded by any of the following: The company has not been notified of any other substantial interests the chairman of the general meeting: in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not have at least three shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is resolution and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant control of the company.
resolution: or Articles of association any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and The company is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is holding shares conferring a right to vote on the relevant resolution registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307. on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to The following description summarises certain provisions of not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares Diageos articles of association as adopted by special resolution at conferring that right.
the Annual General Meeting on 14 October 2009 and applicable Diageos articles of association and the Companies Acts provide for English law concerning companies the Companies Acts, in each case as at 13 July 2018.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by matters to be transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the reference to the Companies Acts and Diageos articles of association.
proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: Investors can obtain copies of Diageos articles of association ordinary resolutions, which include resolutions for the election, by contacting the Company Secretary at the.
re-election and removal of directors, the declaration of final Any amendment to the articles of association of the company dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of the external may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies auditor, the remuneration report and remuneration policy, the Act 2006, by way of special resolution.
increase of authorised share capital and the grant of authority to allot shares: and Directors special resolutions, which include resolutions for the amendment Diageos articles of association provide for a board of directors, of Diageos articles of association, resolutions relating to the consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution disapplication of pre-emption rights, and resolutions modifying of shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the holders 25 directors, in which all powers to manage the business and affairs of such class.
Directors may be elected by the members in a general meeting or appointed by Diageos Board.
At each annual An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple general meeting, the following are required to retire and are then majority of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at reconsidered for election re-election, assuming they wish to stand which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions for election re-election: any director who has been appointed by require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the Diageos Board since the last annual general meeting: any director votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is who has been in office during the two previous general meetings a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting and did not retire at either of them: and any director who has been of Diageo is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or in office, other than in an executive position, for a continuous period by proxy and entitled to vote.
of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
There is no age limit 162 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Additional information for shareholders Warning to shareholders share fraud A shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if he has been served Please beware of the share fraud of boiler room scams, where with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association shareholders are called out of the blue by fraudsters sometimes after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests claiming to represent Diageo attempting to obtain money or property dishonestly.
Further information is available in the investor in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
section of the companys website www.
com but in short, Pre-emption rights and new issues of shares if in doubt, take proper professional advice before making any While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under investment decision.
Diageos articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause External limited assurance of selected Sustainability & Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is Responsibility performance data restricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, We engaged PwC LLP to perform an independent limited assurance with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without engagement, reporting to the Board of Directors of Diageo plc, over selected Sustainability & Responsibility S&R performance data express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in a general marked with the symbol within the Strategic Report of the Annual meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five Report 2018, and the S&R Performance Addendum to the Annual years.
Under the Companies Acts, Diageo may also not allot shares Report 2018.
PwC LLP engagement was performed in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such Revised Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion Historical Financial Information and, in respect of the greenhouse gas to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived emissions, in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas by a special resolution of the shareholders.
statements, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Repurchase of shares Standards Board.
Subject to authorisation by special resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares PwC LLPs full assurance opinion is available in the S&R which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, Performance Addendum to the Annual Report 2018, available at if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of www.
the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued A summary of the work they performed is included in their assurance share capital.
It is important to read the selected S&R performance data Restrictions on transfers of shares contained within this report in the context of PwC LLPs full limited The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated Diageo assurance opinion and our reporting methodologies.
Our reporting share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified methodologies are included in the S&R Performance Addendum to the Annual Report, available at www.
or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty, and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require, b is in respect of only one class of share and c if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in Diageos articles of association and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in Diageos articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in Diageos articles of association.
Documents on display The Annual Report on Form 20-F and any other documents filed by the company with the US Securities Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs office of Investor Education and Advocacy located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
Filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commerical document retrieval services, and from the website maintained by the US Securities and Exchange Commission at www.
