Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Other financial information DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 143 This section includes additional financial information that are either Other financial required by the relevant accounting standards or management considers these to be material information for shareholders.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings Order did not extend to them.
At the time of the completion of the UBHL Share Sale, the Leave Order remained subject to review on Accounting policies appeal.
However, as stated by Diageo at the time of closing on Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or 4 July 2013, it was considered unlikely that any appeal process in other disputes against the group where it is considered to be respect of the Leave Order would definitively conclude on a timely probable that a liability exists and a reliable estimate can be made basis and, accordingly, Diageo waived the conditionality under the of the likely outcome.
Where it is possible that a settlement may SPA relating to the absence of insolvency proceedings in relation to be reached or it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the UBHL and acquired the 10,141,437 USL shares from UBHL at that time.
estimated financial effect appropriate disclosure is made but no Following closing of the UBHL Share Sale, appeals were filed by provision created.
various petitioners in respect of the Leave Order.
On 20 December 2013, the division bench of the High Court set aside Critical accounting judgements the Leave Order the December 2013 Order.
Following the December Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a claim 2013 Order, Diageo filed special leave petitions SLPs in the Supreme will succeed, or a liability will arise, and an estimate to quantify the Court of India against the December 2013 Order.
possible range of any settlement.
Due to the inherent uncertainty On 10 February 2014, the Supreme Court of India issued an order in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the giving notice in respect of the SLPs and ordering that the status quo liability originally estimated.
The group may be involved in legal be maintained with regard to the UBHL Share Sale pending a hearing proceedings in respect of which it is not possible to make a on the matter in the Supreme Court.
Following a number of reliable estimate of any expected settlement, if any.
In such cases adjournments, the next firm hearing date for the SLPs in respect of appropriate disclosure is provided but no provision is made and which leave has since been granted and which have been converted no contingent liability is quantified.
to civil appeals is yet to be fixed.
In separate proceedings, the High Court passed a winding-up a Guarantees and related matters order against UBHL on 7 February 2017.
On 4 March 2017, UBHL As of 30 June 2018, the group has no material unprovided guarantees appealed against this order before a division bench of the High or indemnities in respect of liabilities of third parties.
This appeal is currently pending.
Diageo continues to believe that the acquisition price of b Acquisition of USL shares from UBHL, winding-up INR 1,440 per share paid to UBHL for the USL shares is fair and petitionsagainst UBHL and other proceedings in relation reasonable as regards UBHL, UBHLs shareholders and UBHLs secured to the USL transaction and unsecured creditors.
However, adverse results for Diageo in the On 4 July 2013, Diageo completed its acquisition, under a share proceedings referred to above could, absent leave or relief in other purchase agreement with United Breweries Holdings Limited proceedings, ultimately result in Diageo losing title to the 10,141,437 UBHL and various other sellers the SPA, of 21,767,749 shares 14.98% USL shares acquired from UBHL.
Diageo believes it would remain in United Spirits Limited USL for a total consideration of INR 31.3 in control of USL and be able to consolidate USL as a subsidiary billion 349 million, including 10,141,437 shares 6.98% from UBHL.
regardless of the outcome of this litigation.
There can be no The SPA was signed on 9 November 2012 and was part of the certainty as to the outcome of the existing or any further related transaction announced by Diageo in relation to USL on that day legal proceedings or the timeframe within which they would the Original USL Transaction.
Through a series of further be concluded.
transactions, as of 2 July 2014, Diageo had a 54.78% investment in USL Diageo also has the benefit of certain contractual undertakings excluding 2.38% owned by the USL Benefit Trust.
and commitments from the relevant sellers in relation to potential Prior to the acquisition from UBHL on 4 July 2013, the High Court challenges to its unencumbered title to the USL shares acquired of Karnataka High Court had granted leave to UBHL under sections on 4 July 2013, including relating to the winding-up petitions 536 and 537 of the Indian Companies Act 1956 the Leave Order to described above and or certain losses and costs that may be incurred enable the sale by UBHL to Diageo to take place the UBHL Share in the event of third party actions relating to the acquisition of the Sale notwithstanding the continued existence of five winding-up USL shares.
petitions that were pending against UBHL on 9 November 2012, being the date of the SPA.
Additional winding-up petitions have been brought against UBHL since 9 November 2012, and the Leave 144 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Financial statements of the group: Other financial information DHN also commenced claims in the English High Court against c Continuing matters relating to the resignation of Dr Vijay Mallya from USL and USL internal inquiries Dr Mallya, his son Sidhartha Mallya and two companies affiliated with On 25 February 2016, Diageo and USL each announced that they Dr Mallya Watson and Continental Administration Services Limited had entered into arrangements with Dr Mallya under which he had CASL for in excess of $142 million 105 million plus interest in relation to Watsons liability to DHN in respect of its borrowings agreed to resign from his position as a director and as chairman of USL and from his positions in USLs subsidiaries.
As specified by referred to above and the breach of associated security documents.
Diageo in its announcement at that time, these arrangements ended These additional claims are described in paragraph d below.
its prior agreement with Dr Mallya regarding his position at USL, Dr Mallya, Sidhartha Mallya and the relevant affiliated companies filed a defence to such claims and the additional claims on 12 March 2018, therefore bringing to an end the uncertainty relating to the governance of USL, and put in place a five-year global non-compete and Dr Mallya also filed a counterclaim for payment of the two excluding the United Kingdom, non-interference, non-solicitation $7 million 5 million instalment payments withheld by Diageo as and standstill arrangement with Dr Mallya.
As part of those described above.
Diageo intends to continue to prosecute its claims and to defend the counterclaims.
arrangements, USL, Diageo and Dr Mallya agreed a mutual release in relation to matters arising out of an inquiry into certain matters As previously announced by USL, the Initial Inquiry identified referred to in USLs financial statements and the qualified auditors certain additional parties and matters indicating the possible report for the year ended 31 March 2014 the Initial Inquiry which existence of other improper transactions.
These transactions could not be fully analysed during the Initial Inquiry and, accordingly, USL, had revealed, among other things, certain diversions of USL funds.
Dr Mallya also agreed not to pursue any claims against Diageo, USL as previously announced, mandated that its Managing Director and and their affiliates including under the prior agreement with Diageo.
Chief Executive Officer conduct a further inquiry into the transactions In evaluating entering into such arrangements, Diageo considered involving the additional parties and the additional matters to determine whether they also suffered from improprieties the the impact of the arrangements on USL and all of USLs shareholders, and came to the view that the arrangements were in the best Additional Inquiry.
USL announced the results of the Additional interests of USL and its shareholders.
Inquiry in a notice to the Indian Stock Exchange dated 9 July 2016.
The mutual release in relation to the Initial Inquiry agreed by Diageo Diageos agreement with Dr Mallya the February 2016 Agreement provided for a payment of $75 million and USL with Dr Mallya announced on 25 February 2016 does not 53 million to Dr Mallya over a five year period in consideration for extend to matters arising out of the Additional Inquiry.
the five-year global non-compete, non-interference, non-solicitation As stated in USLs previous announcement, the Additional Inquiry revealed further instances of actual or potential fund diversions from and standstill commitments referred to above, his resignation from USL and the termination of his USL-related appointment and USL and its Indian and overseas subsidiaries to, in most cases, Indian governance rights, the relinquishing of rights and benefits attached and overseas entities in which Dr Mallya appears to have a material to his position at USL, and his agreement not to pursue claims against direct or indirect interest, as well as other potentially improper transactions involving USL and its Indian and overseas subsidiaries.
The February 2016 Agreement also provided for the release of Dr Mallyas personal obligations to indemnify i Diageo In connection with the matters identified by the Additional Holdings Netherlands B. V. DHN in respect of its earlier liability Inquiry, USL has, pursuant to a detailed review of each case of such $141 million 96 million under a backstop guarantee of certain fund diversion and after obtaining expert legal advice, where appropriate, filed civil suits for recovery of funds from certain parties, borrowings of Watson Limited Watson a company affiliated with Dr Mallya, and ii Diageo Finance plc in respect of its earlier liability including Dr Mallya, before the relevant courts in India.
30 million under a guarantee of certain borrowings of United The amounts identified in the Additional Inquiry have been Breweries Overseas Limited.
$40 million 28 million of the previously provided for or expensed in the financial statements of USL or its subsidiaries for prior periods.
Further, at this stage, it is not $75 million 53 million amount was paid on signing of the February 2016 Agreement with the balance being payable in equal instalments possible for the management of USL to estimate the financial impact of $7 million 5 million a year over five years, subject to and on USL, if any, arising out of potential non-compliance with conditional on Dr Mallyas compliance with certain terms of the applicable laws in relation to such fund diversions.
While the first two instalments of $7 million 5 million d Other continuing matters relating to Dr Mallya and affiliates each would have become due on 25 February 2017 and DHN issued a conditional backstop guarantee on 2 August 2013 25 February 2018, respectively, owing to various reasons including to Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered pursuant to a breaches committed by Dr Mallya and certain persons connected guarantee commitment agreement the Guarantee Agreement.
with him of several provisions of the February 2016 Agreement and The guarantee was in respect of the liabilities of Watson, a company agreements of the same date between Dr Mallya and USL, Diageo affiliated with Dr Mallya, under a $135 million 92 million facility believes that it was not liable to pay such amount, and is very unlikely from Standard Chartered the Facility Agreement.
The Guarantee to become liable to pay any future instalments, to Dr Mallya.
By notice Agreement was entered into as part of the arrangements put in place to Dr Mallya and certain persons connected with him on and announced at the closing of the USL transaction on 4 July 2013.
24 February 2017, 3 November 2017 and 23 February 2018, Diageo DHNs provision of the Guarantee Agreement enabled the and other group companies have demanded from Dr Mallya the refinancing of certain existing borrowings of Watson from a third repayment of $40 million 28 million which was paid by Diageo party bank and facilitated the release by that bank of rights over on 25 February 2016, and also sought compensation from him for certain USL shares that were to be acquired by Diageo as part of various losses incurred by the relevant members of the Diageo group the USL transaction.
The facility matured and entered into default on account of the breaches committed by him and certain persons in May 2015.
In aggregate DHN paid Standard Chartered $141 million connected with him.
On 16 November 2017, Diageo and other 96 million under this guarantee, i. e. including payments of default relevant members of the Diageo group commenced claims in the interest and various fees and expenses.
High Court of Justice in England and Wales the English High Court Watson remains liable for all amounts paid by DHN under the against Dr Mallya in relation to certain of the matters specified in the guarantee.
Under the guarantee documentation with Standard notices of 24 February 2017 and 3 November 2017.
At the same time Chartered, DHN is entitled to the benefit of the underlying security Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Other financial information DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 145 1 million, being the costs incurred to date in the various Indian package for the loan, including: a certain shares in United Breweries Limited UBL held solely by Dr Mallya and certain other shares in UBL proceedings referred to above plus interest, and B damages of held by Dr Mallya jointly with his son Sidhartha Mallya, b Watsons $141 million 96 million, being DHNs loss as a result of those Indian interest in Orange India Holdings S. a. r. l. Orange, the joint venture proceedings which currently prevent enforcement of the security over shares in UBL plus interest : and iii a claim against CASL, that owns the Force India Formula One F1 team, and c the shareholding in Watson.
as a co-surety with DHN of Watsons obligations under the Facility Aspects of the security package are the subject of various Agreement, for 50% of the difference between the amount claimed proceedings in India in which third parties are alleging and asserting under i above and the amount if any that DHN is in fact able to recover from Watson, Dr Mallya and or Sidhartha Mallya.
As noted prior rights to certain assets comprised in the security package or otherwise seeking to restrain enforcement against certain assets in paragraph c, Dr Mallya, Sidhartha Mallya and the relevant affiliated by Standard Chartered and or DHN.
These proceedings are ongoing companies filed a defence to these claims on 12 March 2018. and DHN will continue to vigorously pursue these matters as part of As stated in paragraph c, DHN and Diageo intends to continue to prosecute these claims.
its efforts for enforcement of the underlying security and recovery of outstanding amounts.
Diageo believes that the existence of any prior e Regulatory notices in relation to USL rights or dispute in relation to the security would be in breach of Following USLs earlier updates concerning the Initial Inquiry as well representations and warranties given by Dr Mallya to Standard as in relation to the arrangements with Dr Mallya that were the Chartered at the time the security was granted and further believes subject of the 25 February 2016 announcement, USL and Diageo that certain actions taken by Dr Mallya in relation to the proceedings have received various notices from Indian regulatory authorities, described above also breached his obligations to Standard Chartered.
including the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Serious Fraud Under the terms of the guarantee and as a matter of law, there are Investigation Office, National Stock Exchange, Income Tax arrangements to pass on to DHN the benefit of the security package Department, Enforcement Directorate, Securities and Exchange upon payment under the guarantee of all amounts owed to Standard Board of India SEBI, Bangalore police, Central Excise Intelligence and Chartered.
Payment under the guarantee has now occurred as the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Diageo and USL are described above.
To the extent possible in the context of the cooperating fully with the authorities in relation to these matters.
proceedings described above, Standard Chartered has taken certain Diageo and USL have also received notices from SEBI requesting recovery steps and is working with DHN in relation to these information in relation to, and explanation of the reasons for, the proceedings.
DHN is actively monitoring the security package and arrangements with Dr Mallya that were the subject of the is discussing with Standard Chartered steps to continue enforcement 25 February 2016 announcement as well as, in the case of USL, in against the background of the proceedings described above, as well relation to the Initial Inquiry and the Additional Inquiry, and, in the as enforcement steps in relation to elements of the security package case of Diageo, whether such arrangements with Dr Mallya or the that are unaffected by those proceedings.
DHNs ability to assume or Watson backstop guarantee arrangements referred to in paragraphs enforce security over some elements of the security package is also c and d above were part of agreements previously made with subject to regulatory consent.
It is not at this stage possible to Dr Mallya at the time of the Original USL Transaction announced on determine whether such consent would be forthcoming.
9 November 2012 and the open offer made as part of the Original In addition to the Indian proceedings just described, certain of the USL Transaction.
Diageo and USL have complied with such assets comprised in the security package may also be affected by information requests and Diageo has confirmed that, consistent with a worldwide freezing order of the English High Court granted on prior disclosures, the Watson backstop guarantee arrangements and 24 November 2017 and continued on 8 December 2017 and 8 May the matters described in the 25 February 2016 announcement were 2018 in respect of the assets of Dr Mallya.
The agreement with not the subject of any earlier agreement with Dr Mallya.
In respect Dr Mallya referenced in paragraph c above does not impact the of the Watson backstop guarantee arrangements, SEBI issued a security package, which, as described above, includes shares in UBL further notice to Diageo on 16 June 2016 that if there is any net and Watsons interest in Orange, the joint venture that owns the liability incurred by Diageo after any recovery under relevant security Force India F1 team.
Watson remains liable for all amounts paid or other arrangements, which matters remain pending on account pursuant to the guarantee and DHN has the benefit of a counterof the Watson backstop guarantee, such liability, if any, would be indemnity from Watson in respect of payments in connection with considered to be part of the price paid for the acquisition of USL the guarantee.
The various security providers, including Dr Mallya shares under the SPA which formed part of the Original USL and Watson, acknowledged in the February 2016 Agreement referred Transaction and that, in that case, additional equivalent payments to in paragraph c above that DHN is entitled to the benefit of the would be required to be made to those shareholders representing security package underlying the Standard Chartered facility and have 0.04% of the shares in USL who tendered in the open offer made also undertaken to take all necessary actions in that regard.
Further, as part of the Original USL Transaction.
Diageo is clear that the Diageo believes that the existence of any prior rights or disputes in Watson backstop guarantee arrangements were not part of the price relation to the security package would be in breach of certain paid or agreed to be paid for any USL shares under the Original USL confirmations given to Diageo and DHN pursuant to that agreement Transaction and therefore believes the decision in the SEBI notice by Dr Mallya, Watson and certain connected persons.
to be misconceived and wrong in law and appealed against it before On 16 November 2017, DHN commenced various claims in the the Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai SAT.
On 1 November 2017, English High Court for, in aggregate, in excess of $142 million SAT issued an order in respect of Diageos appeal in which, amongst 105 million plus interest in relation to these matters, including the other things, it observed that the relevant officer at SEBI had neither following: i a claim against Watson for $141 million 96 million plus considered Diageos earlier reply nor provided Diageo with an interest under Watsons counter-indemnity to DHN in respect of opportunity to be heard, and accordingly directed SEBI to pass a fresh payments made by DHN to Standard Chartered under the guarantee order after giving Diageo an opportunity to be heard.
Following SATs referred to above: ii a claim against Dr Mallya and Sidhartha Mallya order, Diageo has made its further submissions in the matter, under various agreements creating or relating to the security including at a personal hearing before a Deputy General Manager package referred to above for A not less than $1.8 million of SEBI.
146 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Financial statements of the group: Other financial information h Other Diageo has also responded to a show cause notice dated 12 May 2017 from SEBI arising out of the correspondence in relation to the matters The group has extensive international operations and is a defendant described in the 25 February 2016 announcement and made its in a number of legal, customs and tax proceedings incidental to further submissions in the matter, including at a personal hearing these operations, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
In particular, the group is currently a defendant in various before a Whole Time Member of SEBI.
Diageo is unable to assess if the notices or enquiries referred to customs proceedings that challenge the declared customs value of above will result in enforcement action or, if this were to transpire, products imported by certain Diageo companies.
Diageo continues to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss, if any, to defend its position vigorously in these proceedings.
Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo, nor any member of the to which any such action might give rise if determined against Diageo or USL.
Diageo group, is or has been engaged in, nor so far as Diageo is aware is there pending or threatened by or against it, any legal or f SEC Inquiry arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the Diageo has received requests for information from the US Securities financial position of the Diageo group.
and Exchange Commission SEC regarding its distribution in and public disclosures regarding the United States and its distribution 19.
Commitments in certain other Diageo markets as well as additional context about a Capital commitments the Diageo group globally.
Diageo is currently responding to the Commitments for expenditure on intangibles and property, plant and equipment not provided for in these consolidated financial SECs requests for information in this matter.
Diageo is unable to assess if the inquiry will evolve into further information requests statements are estimated at 161 million 2017 84 million: 2016 or an enforcement action or, if this were to transpire, to quantify 87 million.
meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss, if any, to which any On 10 July 2018 Diageo launched a partial tender offer to increase its aggregate equity stake in Sichuan Shuijingfang Company Limited such action might give rise.
See note 22 for details of the commitment made for the g Tax acquisition of the additional equity shares in SJF.
The international tax environment has received increased attention and seen rapid change over recent years, both at a US and European b Operating lease commitments level, and by international bodies such as the Organisation for The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases, Economic Cooperation and Development OECD.
Against this principally in respect of properties, are as follows: backdrop, Diageo has been monitoring developments and continue 2018 2017 to engage transparently with the tax authorities in the countries million million where Diageo operates to ensure that the group manages its Payments falling due: arrangements on a sustainable basis.
Within one year 100 95 In October 2017, the European Commission opened a state aid Between one and two years 70 72 investigation into the Group Financing Exemption in the UK Between two and three years 48 52 controlled foreign company rules.
The Group Financing Exemption Between three and four years 32 40 was introduced in legislation by the British government in 2013.
Between four and five years 20 28 In common with other UK-based international companies whose After five years 42 51 arrangements are in line with current UK CFC legislation, Diageo may 312 338 be affected by the outcome of this investigation.
If the preliminary findings of the European Commissions investigation into the UK legislation are There are no significant leases for which contingent rent is payable, nor any that have purchase options, escalation clauses or restrictions.
upheld, Diageo calculates its maximum potential liability to be approximately 250 million.
Based on its current assessment, Diageo Certain of the operating leases have renewal clauses which are at fair believes that no provision is required in respect of this issue.
During the year ended 30 June 2018, Diageo reached agreement 20.
Related party transactions with HM Revenue & Customs in the United Kingdom in respect of Transactions between the group and its related parties are made on transfer pricing and related issues.
See note 7 Taxation for further terms equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
Diageo has also been in discussions with the French Tax a Subsidiaries Authorities over the deductibility of certain interest costs.
During the Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries are year the French Tax Authorities issued assessments denying tax relief eliminated on consolidation and therefore are not disclosed.
Details for interest costs incurred in the periods ended 30 June 2011 to of the principal group companies are given in note 21.
Diageo believes that the interest costs are deductible and accordingly is challenging the assessments from the French Tax b Associates and joint ventures Authorities.
Including interest and penalties, the exposure for the Sales and purchases to and from associates and joint ventures are periods ended 30 June 2011 to 30 June 2018 is approximately principally in respect of premium drinks products but also include 241 million 214 million.
Based on its current assessment, Diageo the provision of management services.
believes that no provision is required in respect of this issue.
Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Other financial information DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 147 Transactions and balances with associates and joint ventures are set e Directors remuneration out in the table below: 2018 2017 2016 million million million 2017 2016 i i 2018 restated restated Salaries and short term employee million million million benefits 2 2 2 Income statement items Annual incentive plan 3 3 2 Sales 10 10 31 Non-Executive Directors fees 1 1 1 Purchases 29 32 36 i Share option exercises 2 Balance sheet items i Shares vesting 1 4 5 Group payables 3 4 5 ii Post employment benefits 1 1 1 Group receivables 2 1 2 8 13 11 Loans payable 6 6 6 i Gains on options realised in the year and the benefit from share awards, calculated by using the Loans receivable 59 31 21 share price applicable on the date of exercise of the share options and release of the awards.
ii Includes a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
Cash flow items Loans and equity contributions, Details of the individual Directors remuneration are given net 37 14 in Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors i Comparatives for loans receivable from associates and joint ventures were restated to include and Non-Executive Directors remuneration in the Directors advances to associates that are convertible to equity.
Other disclosures in respect of associates and joint ventures are included in note 6. c Key management personnel The key management of the group comprises the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the members of the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary.
They are listed under Board of Directors and Company Secretary and Executive Committee.
2018 2017 2016 million million million Salaries and short term employee benefits 10 10 11 Annual incentive plan 10 9 9 Non-Executive Directors fees 1 1 1 i Share-based payments 15 9 7 Post employment benefits 2 2 2 Termination benefits 2 2 38 33 32 i Time-apportioned fair value of unvested options and share awards.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive share-based payments or post employment benefits.
Details of the individual Directors remuneration are given in Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors remuneration in the Directors remuneration report.
d Pension plans The Diageo pension plans are recharged with the cost of administration services provided by the group to the pension plans and with professional fees paid by the group on behalf of the pension plans.
The total amount recharged for the year was 14 million 2017 15 million: 2016 16 million.
148 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Financial statements of the group: Other financial information 21.
Principal group companies The companies listed below include those which principally affect the profits and assets of the group.
The operating companies listed below may carry on the business described in the countries listed in conjunction with their subsidiaries and other group companies.
Percentage Country of Country of of equity i incorporation operation owned Business description Subsidiaries Diageo Ireland Republic of Ireland Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Great Britain Limited England Great Britain 100% Marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Scotland Limited Scotland Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Brands B. V. Netherlands Worldwide 100% Marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo North America, Inc. United States Worldwide 100% Production, importing, marketing and distribution of premium drinks ii United Spirits Limited India India 54.78% Production, importing, marketing and distribution of premium drinks iii Diageo Capital plc Scotland United Kingdom 100% Financing company for the group iii Diageo Finance plc England United Kingdom 100% Financing company for the group Diageo Investment Corporation United States United States 100% Financing company for the US group Mey ki Sanayi five Ticaret A.. Turkey Turkey 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Associates iv Mot Hennessy, SAS France France 34% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks i All percentages, unless otherwise stated, are in respect of holdings of ordinary share capital and are equivalent to the percentages of voting rights held by the group.
ii Percentage ownership excludes 2.38% owned by the USL Benefit Trust.
iii Directly owned by Diageo plc.
iv French limited liability company.
1 Diageo Finance B. V. Netherlands is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of the group.
As at 30 June 2018, there were no outstanding securities issued by Diageo Finance B. V. 22.
Post balance sheet events Offer for shares in Sichuan Shuijingfang Company Limited SJF On 10 July 2018 Diageo launched a partial tender offer to increase its aggregate equity stake in SJF from 39.71% to up to a maximum of 60%.
The price per share offered is RMB62.00 per share adjusted for any dividend distribution by SJF during the tender offer period and gives all non Diageo shareholders the opportunity to elect to sell their shares in SJF to Diageo up to 11 August 2018.
The maximum possible consideration to reach 60% of the equity in SJF is RMB6,146 million 703 million, of which RMB1,229 million 141 million was deposited in escrow with the Chinese regulatory authorities on 3 July 2018.
$900 million 682 million of the $3.5 billion 2,652 million available undrawn committed bank facilities have been ring-fenced, as a backstop to Diageos normal funding sources, for the cost of acquiring the shares in SJF until settlement is completed.
Share buyback On 25 July 2018 the Board resolved to delegate to a committee of the Board a decision in respect of a potential share buyback programme of up to 2 billion in the year ending 30 June 2019.
It is anticipated that the committee will make a decision on the matter at a meeting to be held on 26 July 2018.
