NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate information conclusion, the Group determined that the subordinated debt of 521.1 million and derivative liabilities of 46.4 million Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company represented liabilities connected with insurance but not registered in England and Wales company number liabilities arising from contracts within the scope of IFRS 4.
The address of the registered office is Churchill There have been no significant changes in the Groups Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR11DP, England.
activities since this assessment to require a reassessment of the criteria.
Accounting policies The fair value at the end of the reporting period for financial Basis of preparation assets with contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the EU IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements the principal amount are disclosed in note 40.
The amount of are prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB as change in the fair value during the period for these financial adopted by the EU.
The Companys financial statements have assets was: AFS debt securities 103.7 million decrease, been prepared in accordance with and in full compliance held-to-maturity HTM debt securities 3.2 million decrease, with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The Company has elected to infrastructure debt 18.2 million decrease and commercial prepare its parent entity financial statements in accordance real estate loans had a small increase.
with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Derivative assets do not have contractual terms that give rise The consolidated financial statements are prepared on on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payment of the historical cost basis except for available-for-sale AFS principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
financial assets, investment property and derivative financial The fair value of these financial assets is disclosed in note 40 instruments, which are measured at fair value fair value is and the amount of change in the fair value during the period defined in note 40. was 26.7 million.
The Companys financial statements and the consolidated In note 3.3.
3 the Group has disclosed the carrying amount financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the of financial assets at the end of the reporting period by credit functional currency of the Company.
risk rating grade, as defined in IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The fair value and the carrying amount of Adoption of new and revised standards financial assets that meet the solely payments of principal The Group has adopted the following new amendments and interest criteria and, at the end of the reporting period to IFRSs and International Accountings Standards IASs that do not have a low credit risk, was 393.9 million.
became mandatorily effective for the Group for the first time during 2018 however these had no material impact on the IFRS 9 information that relates to entities within the Group consolidated financial statements or performance.
that is not provided in the Groups consolidated financial statements can be obtained from their individual financial IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers statements.
This information will be available from Companies introduces new recognition and disclosure requirements.
House once the individual financial statements have been Entities are required to recognise revenue as goods and approved and filed with Companies House.
services are transferred to the customer in proportion to the total consideration it expects to receive in exchange for The IASB amended IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to those services.
The Group has adopted the standard on a provide further clarity on: the effects of vesting conditions fully retrospective basis.
This has not had a material impact on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payment on the consolidated financial statements.
transactions: the classification of a share-based payment transaction with net settlement features for withholding tax Insurance contracts are out of scope of IFRS 15. obligations: and accounting where a modification to the Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments terms and conditions of a share-based payment transaction with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts was issued on 12 September changes its classification from cash-settled to equity-settled.
2016 and endorsed by the EU on 3 November 2017.
These The Group operates equity-settled share-based schemes amendments permitted insurers who satisfied certain criteria only and has no obligation to withhold tax in respect of to defer the effective date of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, to the employees personal tax liability.
These amendments coincide with the expected effective date of IFRS 17 Insurance have no impact on the Groups share-based payments Contracts, to 1 January 2022.
The IASB permitted this option accounting policy.
having considered potential asset and liability mismatching and temporary profit and loss volatility caused by introducing A number of further narrow scope amendments which became these new standards in different periods within a short effective for the Group but do not have an impact on existing period of time.
accounting policies, are as follows: When first published, Amendments to IFRS 4 required The IASB amended IAS 40 Investment Property to clarify insurance entities to evaluate whether their activities were when an entity should categorise a property as an investment predominantly connected to insurance as at its annual property.
Property should be transferred to or from investment reporting date immediately preceding 1 April 2016, providing property when there is evidence of a change in use meaning an option to defer adoption of IFRS 9 if liabilities connected the property now satisfies, or ceases to satisfy, the definition to insurance comprised a predominant proportion of its total of an investment property.
liabilities as at that date.
The Group concluded that it satisfied IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance the criteria that the carrying value of its liabilities connected Consideration clarifies how to determine the date of the to insurance was greater than 90% of the carrying value of transaction for the exchange rate to be used on the initial its total liabilities at 31 December 2015.
In making this recognition where an entity pays or receives consideration in advance for foreign currency denominated contracts.
136 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 136 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to the relating to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial consolidated income statement on disposal or partial disposal Reporting Standards the amendment deletes certain shortof a foreign operation.
term exemptions for first-time adopters, and IAS 28 Investments 1.3 Contract classification in Associates and Joint Ventures the amendment provides Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group clarification that measuring investees at fair value through the insurer has accepted significant insurance risk from profit or loss is an  choice.
another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate 1.1 Basis of consolidation the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial the insured event adversely affects the policyholder.
statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, by the Group at 31 December 2018 and 31 December it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, 2017.
Control exists when the Group is exposed, or has even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished.
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power 1.4 Revenue recognition over the entity.
In assessing if the Group controls another entity, Premiums earned the existence and effect of the potential voting rights that are Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total currently exercisable or convertible are considered.
premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the by contracts incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting unearned premium provision, which represents the proportion policies used into line with those used by the Group.
of the premiums incepted in the year or prior periods that relate The policies set out below have been applied consistently to periods of insurance cover after the balance sheet date.
throughout the years ended 31 December 2018 and Unearned premiums are calculated over the period of exposure 31 December 2017 to items considered material to the under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for consolidated financial statements.
the estimated incidence of exposure under policies.
A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties, statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from the date the Group ceases to control it.
On acquisition of underwriting or past experience and are included in insurance a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent premiums.
Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any at fair value.
commission payable to intermediaries or other parties.
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses Cash back payments to policyholders under motor telematics between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
policies represent a reduction in earned premiums.
1.2 Foreign currencies Investment return The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented Interest income on financial assets is determined using the in sterling which is the presentational currency of the Group.
The effective interest rate method Group entities record transactions in the currency of the is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset primary economic environment in which they operate their or group of financial assets and of allocating the interest functional currency, translated at the foreign exchange rate income over the expected life of the asset.
ruling at the date of the transaction.
Rental income from investment property is recognised in the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency the contract.
Any gains or losses arising from a change in at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the settlement of foreign Instalment income currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets Instalment income comprises the interest income earned on and liabilities are reported in the income statement.
policyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums are Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are settled by a series of instalment payments.
Interest is earned stated at fair value are translated into the relevant functional using an effective interest rate method over the term of the policy.
currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the values are determined.
Translation differences arising on nonOther operating income monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in the Vehicle replacement referral income income statement except for differences arising on AFS nonVehicle replacement referral income comprises fees recognised monetary financial assets, which are recognised in other at a point in time in respect of referral income received when comprehensive income.
a customer or a non-fault policyholder claimant of another insurer has been provided with a hire vehicle from a Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill preferred supplier.
and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated Income is recognised when the customer or claimant has been into sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance provided with a vehicle by the supplier.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates unless these Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services do not approximate the foreign exchange rates ruling at the Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising recognised at a point in time on satisfaction of performance on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in the obligations.
The cost of providing the service is incurred as consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amount the service is rendered.
CO. UK 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.4 Revenue recognition continued A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks The Groups income also comprises vehicle repair services arising where the expected value of claims and expenses provided to other third-party customers.
Income in respect attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in repair obligations.
The price is determined using market rates relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition for the services and materials used after discounts have been costs deferred and other prepaid amounts for example, deducted where applicable.
The expected value is determined by reference to recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium Legal services income rates.
The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately Legal services income represents the amount charged to clients by reference to classes of business that are managed together for professional services provided during the year including after taking account of relevant investment returns.
recovery of expenses but excluding value added tax.
Income relating to variable legal services fees is recognised on a best 1.6 Reinsurance estimate basis.
The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
Other income Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal at a point in time on satisfaction of related performance course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits obligations.
Where fees have a variable element, income varying by product line.
Outward reinsurance premiums are is recognised on a best estimate of the total consideration generally accounted for in the same accounting period as expected.
Income is stated excluding applicable sales taxes.
the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured.
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same 1.5 Insurance claims accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full cost of Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Amounts recoverable claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the and subrogation recoveries.
Outstanding claims provisions are outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated not discounted for the time value of money except for claims with the reinsured policies and in accordance with the to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003. relevant reinsurance contract.
Recoveries in respect of PPOs are discounted for the time value of money.
A court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance or partly to take the form of PPOs.
These are covered in more asset may not be collected or where the reinsurers credit rating detail in note 2.4.
Costs for both direct and indirect claims has been downgraded significantly and this is taken as an handling expenses are also included.
indication of a reinsurers difficulty in meeting its obligations under the reinsurance contracts.
This also includes an Provisions are determined by management based on assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions experience of claims settled and on statistical models to reflect the counterparty default risk exposure to long-term which require certain assumptions to be made regarding reinsurance assets particularly in relation to PPOs.
Increases the incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific in this provision affect the Group by reducing the carrying factors such as adverse weather conditions.
When calculating value of the asset and the impairment loss is recognised in the total provision required, the historical development of the income statement.
claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, within acceptable probability parameters, the value of 1.7 Deferred acquisition costs outstanding claims gross and net at the balance sheet date.
Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance policies Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are are matched with the earning of the premiums to which they factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation.
A proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year is therefore deferred to the subsequent accounting period to Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques match the extent to which premiums written during the year that incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims are unearned at the balance sheet date.
cost adjusted for inflation and frequency methods.
As claims mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising based on actual claims experience.
The approach adopted expenditure, directly attributable administration costs, takes into account the nature, type and significance of the commission paid and costs associated with telesales business and the type of data available, with large claims and underwriting staff.
The data used for 1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an reconciled to the accounting data.
acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities the ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any handling costs.
Actual claims experience may differ from accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the the historical pattern on which the actuarial best estimate is acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is based and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed included in the balance sheet category goodwill and other that assumed.
As a result, the Group sets provisions at a intangible assets.
The gain or loss on the disposal of a margin above the actuarial best estimate.
This amount is subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the carrying recorded within claims provisions.
value of any related goodwill.
138 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 138 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the immediately in the income statement and the carrying value of assets economic lives using methods that best reflect the the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss.
pattern of economic benefits and is included in operating A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or expenses.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises Software development costs Up to 10 years provided the increased carrying value does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment losses on written off as incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development goodwill are not reversed.
of internal-use computer software and associated business processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and 1.11 Investment property economic viability have been established.
These costs include Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold payroll costs, the costs of materials and services and directly properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital attributable overheads.
Capitalisation of costs ceases when the appreciation or both.
Investment property is not depreciated software is capable of operating as intended.
During and after but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices for against the projected benefits that the software is expected to similar properties adjusted for the specific characteristics of generate.
Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical each property.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred, fair value is recognised in the income statement.
as are all training costs and general overheads.
Investment property is derecognised when it has been either 1.9 Property, plant and equipment disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future Items of property, plant and equipment except investment economic benefit is expected from disposal.
Any gains or property note 1.11 are stated at cost less accumulated losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property depreciation and impairment losses.
Where an item of are recognised in the income statement in the year of property, plant and equipment comprises major components retirement or disposal.
having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.
1.12 Financial assets Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straightFinancial assets are classified as AFS, HTM designated at fair line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount of property, value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables.
plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives.
The Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
of assets within a time frame established by regulation or Land is not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: convention in the market place are recognised on the date Freehold and leasehold 50 years or the period that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
buildings of the lease if shorter Available-for-sale Vehicles 3 years Financial assets can be designated as AFS on initial recognition.
AFS financial assets are initially recognised at fair value Computer equipment Up to 5 years plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently Other equipment, including 2 to 15 years measured at fair value.
Impairment losses and exchange property adaptation costs differences resulting from translating the amortised cost of foreign The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of currency monetary AFS financial assets are recognised in the property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference income statement, together with interest calculated using the between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying effective interest rate method.
Other changes in the fair value amount of the item.
of AFS financial assets are reported in a separate component of shareholders equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain 1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, or loss is recognised in the income statement.
plant and equipment At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an plant and equipment are impaired.
If any such indication exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and asset and the impairment loss, if any.
Goodwill is tested for regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes basis.
The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
If an asset is usually the current bid price.
When current bid prices are does not generate cash flows that are independent of those unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not been is determined for the cash-generating unit CGU to which a significant change in economic circumstances since the time of the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the the transaction.
If conditions have changed since the time of higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
the transaction for example, a change in the risk-free interest rate following the most recent price quote for a corporate Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the bond, the fair value reflects the change in conditions by asset or CGU, discounted at a rate that reflects market interest reference to current prices or rates for similar financial rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or CGU that have instruments, as appropriate.
The valuation methodology not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows.
described above uses observable market data.
CO. UK 139 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.12 Financial assets continued Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group and the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique.
financial assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the Valuation techniques include using recent arms length market impairment losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the transactions between knowledgeable and willing parties impairment loss reduces, and the reduction can be ascribed to if available, reference to the current fair value of another an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
analysis and option pricing models.
If there is a valuation Insurance receivables technique commonly used by market participants to price Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance premiums the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to where the policyholders have elected to pay in instalments or provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market amounts due from third parties where they have collected or transactions, the Group uses that technique.
are due to collect the money from the policyholder.
Held-to-maturity Receivables also include amounts due in respect of the Non-derivative financial assets not designated as AFS or loans provision of legal services.
and receivables with fixed or determinable payments and fixed For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision is maturity where the intention and ability to hold them to maturity calculated based upon prior loss experience.
For all balances exists are classified as HTM.
outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt provision Subsequent to initial recognition, HTM financial assets are is made.
Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, the measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate outstanding debt that is overdue is charged to the income method less any impairment losses.
statement and the bad debt provision is released back to Loans and receivables the income statement.
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable Derivatives and hedging repayments that are not quoted in an active market are Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and classified as loans and receivables, except those that are subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values classified as AFS or HTM.
Loans and receivables are initially are determined from quoted prices in active markets where recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs available.
Where there is no active market for an instrument, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the fair value is derived from prices for the derivatives components effective interest rate method less any impairment losses.
using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
Impairment of financial assets Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying group of financial assets classified as AFS, HTM or loans hedge.
The Group enters into fair value hedge relationships and receivables is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of and a small amount of cash flow hedges.
financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
if there is objective evidence that an event or events since The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected the instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during Available-for-sale the period of the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly effective When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified in offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values attributable as AFS has been recognised directly in equity and there is to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative management strategy, or if the hedging instrument expires or is loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
The loss is measured as the difference between the In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
through profit or loss, but those on AFS debt instruments are reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging related to a subsequent event.
instrument is recognised in the income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is Held-to-maturity and loans and receivables recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying financial asset or group of financial assets classified as HTM or amount of the hedged item.
loans and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying Derecognition of financial assets amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset initial recognition.
and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant ownership of the asset.
or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
140 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 140 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.13 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known The current service cost and any past service costs, together amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of with the net interest on net pension liability or asset, is charged change in value.
or credited to operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts, are measured the income statement and presented in other comprehensive at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
income under Items that will not be reclassified subsequently 1.14 Financial liabilities to the income statement.
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net of 1.19 Taxation transaction costs incurred.
Other than derivatives which are The tax charge or credit represents the proportion of the tax recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial payable and receivable arising in the current year only.
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The current tax charge is based on the taxable profits for the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 1.15 Subordinated liabilities statement because it excludes items of income or expense that Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated guaranteed are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes dated notes which are initially measured at the consideration items that are never taxable or deductible.
received less related transaction costs.
Subsequently, Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have subordinated liabilities are measured at amortised cost been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet using the effective interest rate method.
date and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to components of other comprehensive 1.16 Provisions income and equity, as appropriate.
The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to sheet liability method on all temporary differences between the settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes.
The Group makes provision for all insurance industry levies, such as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all Motor Insurance Bureau.
taxable temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises profits will be available against which deductible temporary the present obligation under the contract as a provision.
A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs of meeting the contractual obligations exceed the expected future Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date economic benefit.
In respect of leasehold properties, a and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not provision is recognised when the Group has a detailed formal be recovered.
plan to vacate the leasehold property, or significantly reduce Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates its level of occupancy, the plan has been communicated to expected to apply when the assets are realised or liabilities those affected and the future property costs under the lease are settled based on laws and rates that have been enacted or exceed future economic benefits.
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, is charged or credited in the income statement, except when when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.
it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt plan and has communicated the plan to those affected.
with in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
1.17 Leases Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a Payments made under operating leases are charged to legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes of the lease.
levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current assets and liabilities on a net basis.
1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form 1.20 Share-based payment of pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation plans under which it awards Ordinary Shares and share Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension options to its employees.
Such awards are generally subject scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable.
to vesting conditions that vary the amount of cash or shares The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as described in to which an employee is entitled.
Scheme liabilities are measured Vesting conditions include service conditions requiring the on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method, employee to complete a specified period of service and and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return performance conditions requiring the Group to meet on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and specified performance targets.
currency to the scheme liabilities.
CO. UK 141 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.20 Share-based payment continued use asset.
Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation unchanged from the current approach under IAS 17. techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free The Group expects to recognise right-of-use assets of interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility.
approximately 150.0 million on 1 January 2019 and lease The cost of employee services received in exchange for an liabilities of approximately 165.0 million.
The reduction award of shares or share options granted is measured by to equity after tax is approximately 15.0 million.
From reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the 1 January 2019 lease charges previously recognised as rental date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting expenses in profit or loss will instead comprise depreciation conditions and market performance conditions conditions and finance costs.
The profit or loss impact, had this standard related to the market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
been adopted on 1 January 2018, would have been a reduction in operating expenses of approximately 5 million The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting and an increase in finance costs of approximately 7 million period the period during which all the specified vesting in the 2018 consolidated income statement.
conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding increase in equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability The actual impacts may differ from the amounts presented in a cash-settled award.
The cost is adjusted for vesting above when the Group presents its first financial statements conditions other than market performance conditions so as to from the initial date of application.
reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest.
In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 The cancellation of an award through failure to meet nonwhich replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition vesting conditions triggers an immediate expense for any and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9: unrecognised element of the cost of an award.
it was endorsed by the EU in 2016.
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial 1.21 Capital instruments assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets: financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with it is effective for annual periods beginning on or after the substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is 1 January 2018. classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver In September 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 4 to cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets address issues arising from the different effective dates of IFRS or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as 9 and IFRS 17.
The amendments to IFRS 4 were endorsed by equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the the EU in November 2017.
Group after the deduction of liabilities.
The Group conducted a high-level assessment of the three The Tier 1 notes are classified as equity as they have a aspects of IFRS 9 and based on current information, the impact perpetual maturity and the Group has full discretion over of applying the expected loss model for the first time is currently interest payments, including ability to defer or cancel interest immaterial.
The Group does not expect any other significant payments indefinitely.
impact on its financial statements.
The Group satisfies the The consideration for any Ordinary Share of the Company exemption criteria within IFRS 4 and has decided to defer purchased by the Group for the benefit of the employee the application of IFRS 9 until the expected effective date of trusts is deducted from equity.
the new insurance contracts standard IFRS 17, on 1 January 2022, applying the temporary exemption from applying 1.22 Dividends IFRS 9 as introduced by the amendments to IFRS 4.
Interim dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative on Ordinary Shares are recognised when they have been Compensation was issued in October 2017 to allow approved at the AGM.
instruments with symmetric prepayment options to qualify for amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive 1.23 Accounting developments income measurement because they would otherwise fail the New IFRSs and amendments that are issued, but not yet solely payments of principal and interest on the principal effective for the 31 December 2018 reporting period and amount condition.
The amendments are effective from the have not been early adopted by the Group are disclosed same period as IFRS 9. below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective, except for IFRS 9 IFRS 17 was issued by the IASB in May 2017 to replace as explained below.
IFRS 4 and is expected to be effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022, with comparative The IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases in January 2016 to replace figures required.
IFRS 17 is a comprehensive new accounting IAS 17 Leases and will be effective for reporting periods standard for all insurance contracts covering recognition beginning on or after 1 January 2019, applied by the and measurement, presentation and disclosure.
The overall Group fully retrospectively from this date.
IFRS 16 sets out objective of IFRS 17 is to provide an accounting model for the principles for recognition, measurement and disclosure of insurance contracts that is more useful and consistent for leases and requires lessees to account for all leases under a insurers and to replace the requirements of IFRS 4 that single on-balance sheet model similar to the accounting for allowed insurers to apply grandfathering of previous local finance leases under IAS 17.
There are two exemptions: for accounting policies.
leases of a low value and for leases of a short-term nature of 12 months or less.
At the start of the lease a lessee will The core of IFRS 17 is the general model, supplemented by recognise a liability for the lease payments and an asset, an optional simplified premium allocation approach which representing the right to use the asset during the lease term.
is permitted for the liability for the remaining coverage for Lessees will be required to separately recognise the interest on short duration contracts one year or less.
The general model the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-ofmeasures insurance contracts using the building blocks of: 142 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 142 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS discounted probability weighted cash flows: an explicit risk IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS 11 Joint adjustment: and a contractual service margin representing the Arrangements the amendments to IFRS 3 clarify that when unearned profit of the contract which is recognised as revenue an entity obtains control of a business that is a joint operation, over the coverage period.
it remeasures previously held interests in that business: the amendments to IFRS 11 clarify that when an entity obtains An assessment on the impact of IFRS 17 on the Groups joint control of a business that is a joint operation, the entity financial statements is in progress.
The Group expects to be does not remeasure previously held interests in that business.
able to apply the simplified premium allocation approach to most of its insurance and reinsurance contracts.
IAS 12 Income Taxes the amendments clarify that all income tax consequences of dividends should be recognised The following accounting developments are not expected to in profit or loss, regardless of how the tax arises.
have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in future periods: IAS 23 Borrowing Costs the amendments clarify that if any specific borrowing remains outstanding after the related asset Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Associates and is ready for its intended use or sale, that borrowing becomes Joint Ventures was issued in October 2017 to clarify that an part of the funds that an entity borrows generally when entity applies IFRS 9 to long-term interests in associates or joint calculating the capitalisation rate on general borrowings.
ventures that form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture but to which the equity method is not applied.
In March 2018 the IASB issued Amendments to References The amendments are effective from 1 January 2019. to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards amending some references to previous versions of the Conceptual IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments was Framework in IFRS Standards and their accompanying issued in June 2017 and provides interpretation when there documents and IFRS Practice Statements.
This is effective is uncertainty over income tax treatments under IAS 12 from 1 January 2020.
This is effective from 1 January 2019.
In October 2018 the IASB issued Amendments to IFRS 3 Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Plan Amendment, Business Combinations this will permit a simplified Curtailment or Settlement was issued in February 2018.
The assessment of whether an acquired set of activities and amendments clarify the accounting when a plan amendment, assets is a group of assets rather than a business.
This is curtailment or settlement occurs.
This is effective from effective from 1 January 2020.
In October 2018 the IASB issued Amendments to IAS 1 In December 2017 the IASB issued Annual Improvements and IAS 8 Definition of Material this clarifies and aligns the to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle with an effective definition of material and provides guidance to help improve date of 1 January 2019, which included the following consistency in the application of that concept whenever it is three amendments: used in IFRS Standards.
This is effective from 1 January 2020.
CO. UK 143 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underline the preparation of its financial information.
The Groups principal accounting policies are set out on pages 136 to 143.
Company law and IFRSs require the Directors, in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors requires management to develop and apply an accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
The judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
2.1 Impairment provisions financial assets The Group makes a judgement that financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
The determination of which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset requires judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of the financial asset, the financial health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow or whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost.
Impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors.
On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired based on the following criteria: actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal: adverse movements in the credit rating for the investee borrower: price performance of a particular AFS debt security, or group of AFS debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared to the market as a whole: and an event has occurred that could be reliably estimated and which had an impact on the financial asset or its future cash flows.
The Group has made a judgement that there was objective evidence of impairment of an asset within the loan and receivables portfolio in the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Group has also made an estimation of the recoverable value of the loan and this resulted in an impairment charge of 6.0 million 2017: 9.5 million.
Had all the declines in AFS asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2018, the Group would suffer a loss of 21.0 million 2017: 6.5 million, being the transfer of the total AFS reserve for unrealised losses to the income statement.
These movements represent mark-to-market movements and where there is no objective evidence of any loss events that could affect future cash flows, no impairments have therefore been recorded for these movements.
2.2 Fair value The Group has made the judgement that level 1 of the Groups fair value hierarchy set out in note 40 will include only sovereign debt securities issued by members of the G10 group of countries within the Groups AFS debt securities portfolio, with all other financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value included in level 2 as they are not considered to be quoted in a deeply liquid market.
The Group has also made the judgement that investment properties, most of the HTM debt securities, commercial real estate loans and infrastructure debt fall within level 3 of the Groups fair value hierarchy note 40 as the valuation models used are driven predominantly by unobservable inputs: investment property valuations are derived from recent market transactions which are adjusted for specific characteristics of each property including the size, location and condition by reference to the benchmark property transactions.
2.3 Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill impairment testing inherently involves estimation uncertainty in a number of areas including: the preparation of the five-year strategic plan and the extrapolation of cash flow forecasts beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the CGUs: estimation of market values of CGUs: and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
Details of a sensitivity analysis on the recoverable amount in excess of carrying value are shown in note 17.
Judgement is applied to determine whether intangible assets are impaired.
In making this judgement, the Group considers: the projection of the economic benefits associated with each asset: subsequent re-measurement of these benefits through the development cycle and into use: the projected ultimate cost of each asset at each point through the development cycle due to specification changes: and the likelihood of obsolescence of any component parts.
Details of intangible assets are shown in note 17.
2.4 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and related reinsurance recoveries The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding claims from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling costs.
Outstanding claims provisions net of related reinsurance recoveries at 31 December 2018 amounted to 2,900.7 million 2017: 3,144.5 million.
144 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 144 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Claims reserves are assessed separately for large and attritional claims, typically using standard actuarial methods of projection.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty include those arising from the selection of specific methods as well as assumptions for claims frequency and severity through the review of historical claims and emerging trends.
The corresponding reinsurance recoveries and impairment provision are calculated on an equivalent basis, with similar estimation uncertainty, as discussed in note 1.6.
The reinsurance bad debt provision is mainly for expected recoveries against future PPO payments.
The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by a lump sum paid to the claimant and, in the cases where this includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement calculations have reference to a standardised annuity factor at a discount rate normally referenced to as the Ogden discount rate.
The Ogden discount rate was at 2.5% from 2001 until 2017, when it was changed to minus 0.75% based on a 3-year average of yields on index-linked Government securities, in line with case law that claimants were entitled to invest their lump sum in a way which was very low or even zero risk.
The Civil Liability Act 2018 changes this approach and instead requires the Government to reset the Ogden discount rate by reference to low risk rather than very low or zero risk investments.
The process is due to conclude in 2019, but there is considerable uncertainty about its outcome and the date from which a new rate will apply.
The Group will continue to exercise judgement around the Ogden discount rate used in its reserves.
Risks and uncertainties here are significant but the move to introduce additional asset classes into the assumed claimant portfolio points towards a higher rate than minus 0.75%.
The Group has therefore made a judgement that it is likely that the Ogden discount rate will change and has selected an estimate of 0% to value its lump sum bodily injury reserves.
An allowance for further movements in the Ogden discount rate is made within the Groups solvency II balance sheet and capital requirements.
Details of the IFRS sensitivity analysis to the assumed Ogden discount rate are shown in note 3.3.
The Group settles some large bodily injury claims as PPOs rather than lump sum payments.
The table below analyses the outstanding PPO claims provisions on a discounted and an undiscounted basis at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlements.
Discounted Undiscounted Discounted Undiscounted 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m At 31 December Gross claims Approved PPO claims provisions 516.2 1,424.5 524.9 1,460.3 Anticipated PPOs 358.1 943.9 373.8 974.7 Total 874.3 2,368.4 898.7 2,435.0 Reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 268.6 784.5 276.5 806.8 Anticipated PPOs 245.2 701.1 240.4 680.7 Total 513.8 1,485.6 516.9 1,487.5 Net of reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 247.6 640.0 248.4 653.5 Anticipated PPOs 112.9 242.8 133.4 294.0 Total 360.5 882.8 381.8 947.5 The provisions for PPOs have been categorised as either claims which have already been determined by the courts as PPOs approved PPO claims provisions or those expected to settle as PPOs in the future anticipated PPOs.
The Group has made a judgement on the likelihood of large bodily injury claims settling as PPOs.
The anticipated PPOs in the table above are based on  propensities adjusted for the assumed Ogden discount rate.
They do not allow for any future changes in PPO propensity.
Anticipated PPOs consist of both existing large loss case reserves including allowances for development and claims yet to be reported to the Group.
Reinsurance is applied at claim level and the net cash flows are discounted for the time value of money.
The discount rate is consistent with the long duration of the claims payments and the assumed future indexation of the claims payments.
In the majority of cases, the inflation agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings SOC 6115 inflation published by the Office for National Statistics, for which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4% 2017: 4%.
The Group has estimated a rate of interest used for the calculation of present values as 4% 2017: 4%, which results in a real discount rate of 0% 2017: 0%.
The Group will continue to exercise judgement around the inflation and discount rates used to calculate these insurance reserves.
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.
CO. UK 145 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Risk management 3.1 Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework The Enterprise Risk Management Strategy and Framework sets out, at a high level, our approach and processes for managing risks.
Further information can be found in the risk management section of the strategic report on page 45.
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group carries out detailed modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed.
This modelling includes the Groups own assessment of its SCR, using its Partial Internal Model approved by the PRA in 2016.
The SCR quantifies the insurance, market, credit, operational and liquidity risks that the regulated entities are undertaking.
The Board is closely involved in the SCR process and reviews, challenges and approves its assumptions and results.
3.3 Principal risks from insurance activities and use of financial instruments There is considerable uncertainty as to the effect of Brexit on the Group and we have proactively considered a variety of possible implications of a disruptive hard Brexit, including of a financial and operational nature: these are referred to in the risk management section of the strategic report.
The risk management section of the strategic report also sets out all the risks assessed by the Group as principal risks.
Detailed below is the Groups risk exposure arising from its insurance activities and use of financial instruments specifically in respect of insurance risk, market risk, credit risk, operational risk and liquidity risk.
1 Insurance risk The Group is exposed to insurance risk as a primary consequence of its business.
Key insurance risks focus on the risk of loss due to fluctuations in the timings, amount, frequency and severity of an insured event relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following insurance risks: Reserve risk Reserve risk relates to both premium and claims.
This is the risk of understatement or overstatement of reserves arising from: the uncertain nature of claims: data issues and changes to the claims reporting process: operational failures: failure to recognise claims trends in the market: and changes in underwriting and business written so that past trends are not necessarily a predictor of the future.
Understatement of reserves may result in not being able to pay claims when they fall due.
Alternatively, overstatement of reserves can lead to a surplus of funds being retained resulting in opportunity cost: for example, lost investment return or insufficient resource to pursue strategic projects and develop the business.
Reserve risk is controlled through a range of processes: regular reviews of the claims and premiums, along with an assessment of the requirement for a liability adequacy provision for the main classes of business by the internal actuarial team: the use of external actuaries to review periodically the actuarial best estimate reserves produced internally, either through peer review or through provision of independent reserve estimates: accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including bootstrapping and scenario analysis: oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board: regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews: and regular assessment of the uncertainty in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves.
The Groups reserves are subject to the risk of retrospective changes in judicial conditions such as the change in the Ogden discount rate announced on 27 February 2017.
This is the discount rate set by the Lord Chancellor and used by courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases.
The rate had been 2.5% since 2001 but was changed to minus 0.75% from 20 March 2017.
The Group revised its reserve estimation to be based on the new rate for year ended 31 December 2016.
However, this rate is expected to change again in 2019 following the passing of the Civil Liability Act 2018.
In anticipation of change, the Group has revalued its reserves based on an assumed Ogden discount rate of 0% for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The new Ogden discount rate may differ from this assumption, and consequently further reserve revaluation may be required, both in 2019 and going forwards as part of the new Ogden discount rate review process introduced by the Civil Liability Act.
Uncertainty in claims reserves estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed payments are made, typically over the lifetime of the injured party.
Claims reserves for PPOs are held on a discounted basis and are sensitive to a change in the discount rate.
146 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 146 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential net impact of a change in a single factor discount rate used for PPOs and separately the Ogden discount rate with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease in profit 1,2 before tax 2018 2017 m m At 31 December 3 PPOs Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points 50.7 54.6 Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points 70.1 75.1 4 Ogden discount rate Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of 1% compared to 0% 2017: 0% compared to minus 0.75% 56.2 68.4 Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of minus 1% compared to 0% 2017: minus 1.5% compared to minus 0.75% 76.3 102.9 Notes: 1.
These sensitivities are net of reinsurance and exclude the impact of taxation.
These sensitivities reflect one-off impacts at 31 December and should not be interpreted as predictions.
The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the real discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level of 0% for reserving.
The PPO sensitivity has been calculated on the direct impact on the change in the real discount rate with all other factors remaining unchanged.
Ogden discount rate sensitivity has been calculated on the direct impact of a permanent change in the discount rate with all other factors remaining unchanged.
The Group will consider the statutory discount rate when setting its reserves but not necessarily provide on this basis, as is the case at the year ended 31 December 2018.
This is intended to ensure that reserves are appropriate for current and potential future developments.
The sensitivity above is calculated on the basis of a permanent change in the rate used for the actuarial best estimate reserves as at 31 December 2018.
It does not take into account a change in the Ogden discount rate setting regime, nor any second order impacts such as those on the Groups PPO assumptions or reinsurance bad debt assumptions.
The reduction in sensitivity to a change in the Ogden discount rate since 31 December 2017 primarily reflects the overall reduction in bodily injury exposures.
The reduction in exposure is due to continued positive prior-year development of claims reserves for large bodily injury claims, particularly for accident years where the reinsurance retention level was higher than the current level of 1.0 million.
There is the risk that claims are reserved or paid inappropriately, including the timing of such activity.
However, there are claims management controls in place to mitigate this risk, as outlined below: claims are managed utilising a range of IT system-driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner: each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside their authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims.
In addition, there are various outsourced claims handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the controls and procedures: loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion.
This involves liaison with the policyholder, third parties, suppliers and the claims function: specialist bodily injury claims teams are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling dependent on the level and type of claim.
Claims exceeding a certain threshold are referred to the technical and large loss teams who also deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria: and a process is in place to deal with major weather and other catastrophic events, known as the Surge Demand Plan.
A surge is the collective name given to an incident which significantly increases the volume of claims reported to the Groups claims functions.
The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and management information monitoring of the plan.
Underwriting risk This is the risk that future claims experience on business written is materially different from the results expected, resulting in current-year losses.
The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including motor, residential property, roadside assistance, creditor, travel and pet business.
The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades within the small and medium-sized enterprises market.
Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis which means that the Groups liability usually extends for a 12-month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can revise renewal terms by amending the premium or other policy terms and conditions such as the excess as appropriate.
Underwriting risk includes catastrophe risk and the risk of loss, or of adverse change in the value of the insurance liabilities resulting from significant uncertainty of pricing, underwriting and provisioning assumptions related to extreme or exceptional circumstances.
CO. UK 147 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Risk management continued When underwriting policies, the Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: geographic concentration risk the Group purchases a catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against a modelled 1 in 200-years catastrophe loss.
The programme is structured with the retention and limits expressed as percentages of gross earned premium.
At 31 December 2018 this was the equivalent of 969.0 million 114% of gross earned premium of the previous 12 months in excess of a retained deductible of 126.5 million 14.9% of gross earned premium : product concentration risk the Groups business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market.
However, the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels to its customers: and sector concentration risk the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect of commercial customers.
It is important to note that none of these risk categories is independent of the others and that giving due consideration to the relationship between these risks is an important aspect of the effective management of insurance risk.
Distribution risk This is the risk that material change in the volume of policies written may result in losses or reduced profitability.
Pricing risk This is the risk of economic loss arising from policies being incorrectly priced or accepted to achieve desired volume and profitability.
Reinsurance risk This is the risk of inappropriate selection and or placement of reinsurance arrangements, with either individual or multiple reinsurers, which renders the transfer of insurance risk to the reinsurer s inappropriate and or ineffective.
Other risks include: reinsurance concentration risk the concentration of credit exposure to any given counterparty: reinsurance capacity being reduced and or withdrawn: underwriting risk appetite and reinsurance contract terms not being aligned: reinsurance contract terms being inappropriate or ineffective resulting in classes or types of business not being appropriately reinsured: non-adherence to the reinsurance policy terms and conditions, in terms of both policy management and claims not being handled within the reinsurance contract terms and conditions or paid on an ex-gratia basis resulting in reinsurance recoveries not being made in full: inappropriate or inaccurate management information and or modelling being used to determine the value for money and purchasing of reinsurance including aggregate modelling : and changes in the external legal, regulatory, social or economic environment altering the definition and application of reinsurance policy wordings or the effectiveness or value for money of reinsurance.
The Group uses reinsurance to: protect the underwriting result against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility to reinsurers: protect the underwriting result against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims in order to reduce volatility and to improve stability of earnings: reduce the Groups capital requirements: and or transfer risk that is not within the Groups current risk appetite.
2 Market risk Market risk is the risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the level and in the volatility of market prices of assets, liabilities and financial instruments.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: spread risk: interest rate risk: property risk: and currency risk.
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Investment Committee for managing the market risk exposure.
These set out the principles that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept having considered strategy, risk appetite and capital resources.
148 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 148 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group monitors its market risk exposure on a monthly basis and, in addition, has established an aggregate exposure limit consistent with its risk objective to maintain capital adequacy.
Interdependencies across risk types have also been considered within the aggregate exposure limit.
The allocation of the Groups investments across asset classes has been approved by the Investment Committee.
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is reviewed by the Investment Committee, which makes recommendations to the Board for its investment strategy approval.
The Investment Committee determines policy and controls, covering such areas as risk, liquidity and performance.
The Investment Committee meets at least three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines and to consider investment recommendations submitted to it.
Oversight of the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment Committee is via the First and Second Lines of Defence.
The investment management objectives are to: maintain the safety of the portfolios principal both in economic terms and from a capital, accounting and reporting perspective: maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations, including in the event of a catastrophe: and maximise the portfolios total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the investment guidelines and capital allocation.
The Group has a property portfolio and an infrastructure debt portfolio to generate a real return which, from an asset liability matching perspective, is used to offset the liability arising from longer duration PPOs.
The Group uses its internal economic capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits and monitors its market risk exposure based on a 99.5% value-at-risk measure.
The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing for the economic impact of specific severe market conditions.
The results of this analysis are used to enhance the understanding of market risk.
The asset liability matching, and investment management minimum standard explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative or gearing purposes.
However, the Group is able to and does use derivatives for hedging its currency risk and interest rate risk exposures.
Spread risk This is the risk of loss from the sensitivity of the value of assets and investments to changes in the level or in the volatility of credit spreads over the risk-free interest rate term structure.
The level of spread is the difference between the risk-free rate and actual rate paid on the asset, with larger spreads being associated with higher risk assets.
The Group is exposed to spread risk through its asset portfolio, most notably through its investment in corporate bonds.
Interest rate risk This is the risk of loss from all assets and liabilities for which the net asset value is sensitive to changes in the term structure of interest rates or interest rate volatility.
The Groups interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments and assets and liabilities exposed to fixed interest rates.
The Group has subordinated guaranteed dated notes with fixed coupon rates with a nominal value of 250 million.
500 million were issued on 27 April 2012: at the same time the Group entered into a 10-year designated hedging instrument, to exchange the fixed rate of interest on these notes to a floating rate, to hedge exposure to interest rate risk and have a redemption date of 27 April 2042.
250 million was repurchased by the Group on 8 December 2017.
The Group also has perpetual Tier 1 notes with fixed coupon rates with a nominal value of 350 million that were issued on 7 December 2017.
The Group also invests in floating rate debt securities, whose investment income is influenced by the movement of the short-term interest rate.
A movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return on these investments.
The market value of the Groups financial investments with fixed coupons is affected by the movement of interest rates.
For the majority of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds, excluding 405.2 million of short duration high yield bonds 2017: 403.9 million, the Group hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar interest rate risk using swaps.
Property risk This is the risk of loss arising from sensitivity of assets and financial investments to the level or volatility of market prices, rental yields, or occupancy rates of properties.
At 31 December 2018, the value of these property investments was 322.1 million 2017: 309.3 million.
The property investments are located in the UK.
CO. UK 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Risk management continued Currency risk This is the risk of loss from changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates.
Exposure to currency risk is generated by the Groups investments in US Dollar and Euro denominated corporate bonds.
The Group maintains exposure to US Dollar securities through 1,699.3 million 2017: 2,084.5 million of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and Euro securities through 79.4 million 2017: 110.4 million of Euro corporate bonds.
The foreign currency exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts, maintaining a minimal unhedged currency exposure on these portfolios, as well as a low basis risk on the hedging contracts.
A limited exposure to currency risk also arises through the Groups insurance and other contractual liabilities.
Currency risk is not material at Group level.
Use of derivatives As mentioned above, the Group uses derivatives to hedge against interest rate and currency risk.
The tables below analyse the maturity of the Groups derivative assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2018 m m m m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,354.6 19.2 19.2 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 18.5 1.2 0.2 1.4 Interest rate swaps 1,198.3 2.7 15.9 14.4 27.6 Total 2,571.4 17.7 16.1 14.4 48.2 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2018 m m m m m Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,716.2 20.6 20.6 Designated as hedging instruments: Interest rate swaps 341.2 0.4 0.4 4.5 5.3 Total 2,057.4 21.0 0.4 4.5 25.9 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 2,735.3 51.1 51.1 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 17.3 1.0 1.0 Interest rate swaps 1,794.9 1.9 21.5 12.7 32.3 Total 4,547.5 50.2 21.5 12.7 84.4 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 579.9 11.3 11.3 Designated as hedging instruments: Interest rate swaps 113.1 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.7 Total 693.0 11.8 0.1 0.3 12.0 150 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 150 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact on financial investments and derivatives of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Decrease 1 Increase decrease in total equity 1 in profit before tax at 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Spread Impact of a 100 basis points increase in spreads on financial 2,3, 5 investments 171.1 183.5 Interest rate Impact of a 100 basis points increase in interest rates on financial 2,3, 4,5 investments and derivatives 15.6 17.3 101.1 98.3 Investment property Impact of a 15% decrease in property markets 48.3 46.4 48.3 46.4 Notes: 1.
These sensitivities exclude the impact of taxation.
The income statement impact on financial investments is limited to floating rate instruments and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate instruments, in particular AFS debt securities, where the coupon return is not impacted by a change in prevailing market rates, as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through the income statement with fair value movements being recognised through total equity.
The increase or decrease in total equity does not reflect any fair value movement in infrastructure debt, HTM debt securities and commercial real estate loans that would not be recorded in the financial statements under IFRSs as they are classified as loans and receivables and HTM respectively, which are carried at amortised cost.
It is estimated that a fair value reduction in these asset categories resulting from a 100 basis points increase in spreads would have been 22.2 million 2017: 23.7 million and a 100 basis points increase in interest rate would have been 5.8 million 2017: 6.2 million.
The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on financial investments and derivatives, which projects a movement in a full years interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to these assets or liabilities on those positions held at 31 December.
The subordinated liabilities and associated interest rate swap are excluded from the sensitivity analysis.
The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Groups insurance liabilities or retirement benefit obligations.
They reflect one-off impacts at 31 December and should not be interpreted as predictions.
The Group has a number of open interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions.
Collateral management arrangements are in place for significant counterparty exposures.
At 31 December 2018, the Group has pledged 31.8 million in cash 2017: 28.2 million and 2.9 million in UK Gilts 2017: 0.3 million to cover initial margins and out-of-the-money derivative positions.
At 31 December 2018, counterparties have pledged 24.0 million in cash and 7.6 million in UK Gilts 2017: 25.1 million in cash and 15.5 million in UK Gilts to the Group to cover in-the-money derivative positions.
The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard.
When securities are pledged they are required to be readily convertible to cash, and as such no policy has been established for the disposal of assets not readily convertible into cash.
3 Credit risk This is the risk of loss resulting from default in cash inflows and or changes in market value of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors to which the Group is exposed.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following credit risk factors: counterparty default risk: and concentration risk.
Counterparty default risk This is the risk of loss from unexpected default of the counterparties and debtors of Group undertakings.
This risk is monitored by three forums: the Investment risk forum monitors credit spreads as indicators of potential losses on investments incurred but not yet realised: the Credit risk forum monitors reinsurance and corporate insurance counterparty default risk: and the NIG credit committee is responsible for monitoring broker credit risk.
The main responsibility of these forums is to ensure that all material aspects of counterparty default risk within the Group are identified, monitored and measured.
The main sources of counterparty default risk for the Group are: investments this arises from the investment of funds in a range of investment vehicles permitted by the investment policy: reinsurance recoveries counterparty exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and, by their very nature, to increase significantly the length of time to reach final payment.
This can increase reinsurance counterparty default risk in terms of both amount and longevity: and consumer credit exposure from offering monthly instalments on annual insurance contracts.
CO. UK 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Risk management continued The Group cedes insurance risk to reinsurers but, in return, assumes counterparty default risk against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
The financial security of the Groups panel of reinsurers is therefore important and both the quality and amount of the assumed counterparty default risk are subject to an approval process whereby reinsurance is only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least A at the time cover is purchased.
The Groups leading counterparty exposures are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the Head of Reinsurance and Corporate Insurance.
The Group aims to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and or non-payment risks associated with its reinsurance exposures.
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of bodily injury and PPO claims, and insurance reserves therefore include provisions beyond the levels created for shorter-term reinsurance bad debt.
For these contracts, reinsurance is only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least A at the time cover is purchased.
The following tables analyse the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear counterparty default risk between those assets that have not been impaired by age in relation to due date, and those that have been impaired.
Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value past due nor Past due more than have been in the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet m m m m m At 31 December 2018 Reinsurance assets 1,208.7 1,208.7 Insurance and other receivables 836.0 39.6 0.3 875.9 Derivative assets 48.2 48.2 Debt securities 4,246.6 4,246.6 Infrastructure debt 289.6 289.6 Commercial real estate loans 201.6 201.6 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,154.4 1,154.4 Total 7,985.1 39.6 0.3 8,025.0 Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value in past due nor Past due more than have been the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet m m m m m At 31 December 2017 Reinsurance assets 1,178.5 1,178.5 Insurance and other receivables 942.5 38.2 0.5 981.2 Derivative assets 84.4 84.4 Debt securities 4,555.0 4,555.0 Infrastructure debt 316.4 316.4 Commercial real estate loans 169.0 169.0 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,358.6 1,358.6 Total 8,604.4 38.2 0.5 8,643.1 Note: 1.
This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal and cash at bank and in hand.
Within the analysis of debt securities above are bank debt securities at 31 December 2018 of 1,125.2 million 2017: 1,197.4 million, that can be further analysed as: secured 63.0 million 2017: 63.5 million : unsecured 949.8 million 2017: 976.3 million : and subordinated 112.4 million 2017: 157.6 million.
Concentration risk This is the risk of loss associated with inadequately diversified portfolios of assets and or obligations, in particular: large exposures to individual credits either bond issuers or deposit-taking institutions : and large exposures to different credits where movements in values and ratings are closely correlated.
Concentration risk on investments arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings or similar activities.
The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over exposure to particular sectors engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
152 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 152 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities by geographical area commercial real estate loans and infrastructure debt are all within the UK.
CO. UK 153 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Risk management continued The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities by geographical area commercial real estate loans and infrastructure debt are all within the UK.
2018 2017 m % m % At 31 December Basic materials 104.4 2% 110.3 3% Communications 241.9 6% 239.2 5% Consumer, cyclical 312.8 8% 374.9 8% Consumer, non-cyclical 449.8 11% 494.4 11% Diversified 51.8 1% 57.9 1% Energy 206.9 5% 263.6 6% Financial 1,817.6 43% 1,836.1 40% Industrial 233.3 5% 216.2 5% Sovereign, supranational and local government 229.6 5% 280.9 6% Technology 115.5 3% 163.1 4% Transport 13.4 0% 13.4 0% Utilities 469.6 11% 505.0 11% Total 4,246.6 100% 4,555.0 100% 154 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 154 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below analyses the distribution of infrastructure debt by industry sector classifications.
2018 2017 m % At 31 December m % Social, of which: Education 125.8 44% 140.5 44% Healthcare 76.0 26% 84.3 27% Other 54.9 19% 56.3 18% Transport 32.9 11% 35.3 11% Total 289.6 100% 316.4 100% The tables below analyse the credit quality of debt securities that are neither past due nor impaired.
The tables include reinsurance exposure, after provision.
The Groups approach to reinsurance counterparty default risk is detailed on page 151.
Includes receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries which generally do not have a credit rating.
CO. UK 155 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
4 Operational risk This is the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events.
Material sources of operational risk for the Group include: Change risk This is the risk of failing to manage the Groups change portfolio resulting in conflicting priorities and failure to deliver strategic outcomes to time, cost or quality.
Technology and infrastructure risk This is the risk that the IT infrastructure is insufficient to deliver the Groups strategy.
Outsourcing risk This is the risk of failing to implement a robust framework for the sourcing, appointment and ongoing contract management of third party suppliers, outsourced service providers and intragroup relationships.
This includes both domestic and offshore outsourcing activities.
Information security risk This is the risk of loss, corruption to Group or customer data, intellectual property or failure of business-critical systems resulting in reputational damage, regulatory censure, supervision, fines and or loss of competitive advantage.
Partnership contractual obligations This is the risk of contractual obligations not being delivered for business partners resulting in damaged reputation, the loss of contract at renewal, significant liability payments and or the early termination of a partnership scheme.
The Group has in place agreed policies and standards to establish key controls relating to operational risk.
5 Liquidity risk This is the risk of being unable to realise investments in order to settle financial obligations when they fall due.
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters of the Groups liquidity risk appetite and is detailed within the liquidity risk minimum standard.
As part of this process the Investment and Treasury team are required to put in place a liquidity plan which must consider expected and stressed scenarios for cash in-flows and out-flows that is reviewed at least annually by the Investment Risk Committee.
Compliance is monitored in respect of both the minimum standard and the regulatory requirements of the PRA.
The following table analyses the carrying value of financial investments and cash and cash equivalents, by contractual maturity, which are able to fund the repayment of liabilities as they crystallise.
156 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 156 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table analyses the undiscounted cash flows of insurance and financial liabilities by contractual repricing or maturity dates, whichever is earlier.
Insurance liabilities exclude unearned premium reserves as there are no liquidity risks inherent in them.
3.4 Capital management The Group manages capital in accordance with the Groups capital management minimum standard, the aims of which are to manage capital efficiently and generate long-term sustainable value for shareholders, while balancing operational, regulatory, credit rating agency and policyholder requirements.
The Group seeks to hold capital resources such that, in normal circumstances, the solvency capital ratio is around the middle of the target range of 140% to 180%.
The Groups regulatory capital position is assessed against the solvency II framework.
From 1 July 2016, the Group gained approval to assess its SCR using a partial internal model, including a full internal economic capital model for the UKI underwriting entity.
The model is calibrated to a 99.5% confidence interval and considers business written to date and one year of future written business over a one-year time horizon, in line with solvency II requirements.
3.5 Capital adequacy unaudited Using the Groups partial internal model, there is a capital surplus of approximately 0.89 billion above an estimated SCR of 1.26 billion as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 0.91 billion and 1.39 billion respectively.
The Groups capital requirements and solvency position are produced and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Segmental analysis The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis.
The segments, which are all UK based, reflect the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer for each of the operating segments: Motor This segment consists of personal motor insurance together with the associated legal protection cover.
The Group sells motor insurance direct to customers through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands such as vehicle manufacturers and through price comparison websites.
The Motor segment includes results previously reported in the Run-off and restructuring segments.
Comparative data has been re-presented accordingly.
Home This segment consists of home insurance together with associated legal protection cover.
The Group sells home insurance products through our brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and our partnership brands RBS, NatWest and Prudential, as well as through price comparison websites.
Rescue and other personal lines This segment consists of rescue products which are sold direct through the Groups own brand, Green Flag, and other personal lines insurance, including travel, pet and creditor sold through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and through partnership brands and through price comparison websites.
Commercial This segment consists of commercial insurance for small and medium-sized enterprises sold through our brands NIG, Direct Line for Business and Churchill.
NIG sells its products exclusively through brokers operating across the UK.
Direct Line for Business sells its products directly to customers, and Churchill sells its products directly to customers and through price comparison websites.
CO. UK 157 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Segmental analysis continued No inter-segment transactions occurred in the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
If any transaction were to occur, transfer prices between operating segments would be set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be eliminated on consolidation.
For each operating segment, there is no individual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Groups total revenue.
The table below analyses the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Results for the year ended 31 December 2018 are based on total Group operations including the restructuring costs and Run-off segment.
The table below analyses the Groups assets and liabilities by reportable segment at 31 December 2018.
Rescue and other Motor Home personal lines Commercial Total m m m m m Goodwill 128.1 45.8 28.7 10.1 212.7 Other segment assets 6,755.0 788.1 210.3 1,420.0 9,173.4 Segment liabilities 4,775.7 551.0 147.0 992.8 6,466.5 Segment net assets 2,107.4 282.9 92.0 437.3 2,919.6 The segmental analysis of assets and liabilities is prepared using a combination of asset and liability balances directly attributable to each operating segment and an apportionment of assets and liabilities managed at a Group wide level.
This does not represent the Groups view of the capital requirements for its operating segments.
158 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 158 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below analyses the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Motor segment for the year ended 31 December 2017 includes restructuring costs and the Run-off segment, which were total income of 0.7 million, net insurance claims of 43.1 million and operating expenses of 11.9 million.
Comparative ratios for the Motor segment and total Ongoing operations, prior to re-presentation of the restructuring costs and the Run-off segment.
Ongoing operations for 2017 comprised total Group operations less the restructuring costs and the Run-off segment.
The table below analyses the Groups assets and liabilities by reportable segment at 31 December 2017.
The Motor segment for the year ended 31 December 2017 includes the Run-off segment, which comprised other segment assets of 642.7 million and other segment liabilities of 512.8 million.
The segmental analysis of assets and liabilities is prepared using a combination of asset and liability balances directly attributable to each operating segment and an apportionment of assets and liabilities managed at a Group-wide level.
CO. UK 159 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
Net earned premium 2018 2017 m m Gross earned premium: Gross written premium 3,211.9 3,392.1 Movement in unearned premium reserve 94.8 52.4 3,306.7 3,339.7 Reinsurance premium: Premium payable 223.5 208.4 Movement in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 6.3 3.7 217.2 204.7 Total 3,089.5 3,135.0 6.
Investment return 2018 2017 m m Investment income: Interest income from debt securities 124.0 137.5 Interest income from cash and cash equivalents 6.2 3.0 Interest income from infrastructure debt 6.9 6.8 Interest income from commercial real estate loans 6.2 3.6 Interest income 143.3 150.9 Rental income from investment property 15.9 16.2 159.2 167.1 Net realised losses gains: AFS debt securities 19.5 23.2 Derivatives 32.2 175.0 Investment property note 19 1.6 12.7 199.8 Net unrealised gains losses : Impairment of loans and receivables 6.0 9.5 Derivatives 1.4 202.0 Investment property note 19 12.7 20.0 8.1 191.5 Total 154.6 175.4 The table below analyses the realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivative instruments included in investment return.
Realised Unrealised Realised Unrealised 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Derivative losses gains: 1 Foreign exchange forward contracts 102.6 41.3 107.8 62.5 Associated foreign exchange risk 72.6 41.3 68.4 259.1 Net losses gains on foreign exchange forward contracts 30.0 176.2 196.6 1 Interest rate swaps 22.1 1.8 1.8 1.7 Associated interest rate risk on hedged items 24.3 3.2 3.0 3.7 Net losses gains on interest rate derivatives 2.2 1.4 1.2 5.4 Total 32.2 1.4 175.0 202.0 Note: 1.
Foreign exchange forward contracts are measured at fair value through profit and loss and interest rate swaps are designated as hedging instruments.
160 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 160 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
Other operating income 2018 2017 m m Vehicle replacement referral income 17.2 16.9 Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 11.7 11.3 Legal services income 11.2 11.0 1,2 Other income 32.0 23.7 Total 72.1 62.9 Notes: 1.
Other income includes salvage income and fee income from insurance intermediary services.
Other income includes a 9.6 million gain on the sale of a property in Bristol in January 2018.
Results for the year ended 31 December 2018 are based on total Group operations including the Run-off segment.
Commission expenses 2018 2017 m m Commission expenses 188.5 225.4 Expenses incurred under profit participations 11.9 61.0 Total 200.4 286.4 10.
Operating expenses 2018 2017 m m 1 Staff costs 269.9 280.1 1,2 Other operating expenses 253.3 273.6 Marketing 121.2 113.7 3 Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 46.7 111.0 Depreciation 31.1 27.9 Total 722.2 806.3 Notes: 1.
Staff costs and other operating expenses attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to the cost of insurance claims.
Other operating expenses include IT costs, insurance levies, professional fees and property costs.
Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets includes a 1.5 million impairment charge for the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: 56.9 million, which relates to capitalised software development costs for ongoing IT projects primarily relating to development of new systems.
The table below analyses the number of people employed by the Groups operations.
CO. UK 161 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
Operating expenses continued The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Groups operations comprised: 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 374.9 363.6 Social security costs 41.2 40.4 Pension costs 28.7 25.5 Share-based payments 21.0 14.8 Total 465.8 444.3 The table below analyses Auditors remuneration in respect of the Groups operations.
2018 2017 m m Fees payable for the audit of: The Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.3 The Companys subsidiaries 1.7 1.6 Total audit fees 1.9 1.9 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other assurance services 0.1 Non-audit services 0.6 0.1 Total 2.7 2.1 Aggregate Directors emoluments The table below analyses the total amount of Directors remuneration in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations.
2018 2017 m m Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 5.9 5.6 Gains on exercise of share options 4.2 5.3 Total 10.1 10.9 Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
At 31 December 2018, no Directors 2017: no Directors had retirement benefits accruing under the defined contribution pension scheme in respect of qualifying service.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, four Directors exercised share options 2017: three Directors.
Finance costs 2018 2017 m m Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 23.1 44.8 1 Net interest received on designated hedging instrument 3.8 8.0 1 Unrealised losses on designated hedging instrument 5.0 10.4 1 Unrealised gains on associated interest rate risk on hedged item 5.6 11.7 1 Realised gain on associated interest rate risk on hedged item 11.3 Premium paid to repurchase subordinated liabilities and associated transaction costs 77.4 Amortisation of arrangement costs and discount on issue of subordinated liabilities 0.4 2.2 Total 19.1 103.8 Note: 1.
As described in note 32, on 27 April 2012 the Group issued subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of 500 million at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year designated hedging instrument to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the notes for a floating rate of 3-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points, which increased to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013.
On 8 December 2017, the Group redeemed 250 million nominal value of the notes.
162 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 162 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Tax charge 2018 2017 m m Current taxation: Charge for the year 114.4 114.4 Over under provision in respect of prior year 4.8 5.3 109.6 119.7 Deferred taxation note 13 : Credit for the year 4.2 5.8 Under over provision in respect of prior year 3.5 8.9 0.7 14.7 Current taxation 109.6 119.7 Deferred taxation note 13 0.7 14.7 Tax charge for the year 108.9 105.0 The following table analyses the difference between the actual income tax charge and the expected income tax charge 1 computed by applying the standard rate of corporation tax of 19.0% 2017: 19.25%.
2018 2017 m m Profit before tax 582.6 539.0 Expected tax charge 110.7 103.8 Effects of: Disallowable expenses 5.4 5.4 Non-taxable items 2.5 0.3 Effect of change in corporation taxation rate 0.2 0.2 Over provision in respect of prior year 1.3 3.7 Deductible Tier 1 notes coupon payment in equity 3.2 Tax charge for the year 108.9 105.0 Effective income tax rate 18.7% 19.5% Note: 1.
In the Finance No 2 Act 2015 the UK Government enacted a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017, and then the Finance Act 2016 enacted a further reduction to 17% effective from 1 April 2020.
As a consequence, the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets or liabilities are settled.
The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above.
Current and deferred tax 2018 2017 m m Per balance sheet: Current tax assets 0.1 Current tax liabilities 46.0 40.7 Deferred tax liabilities 7.6 31.1 WWW.
CO. UK 163 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Current and deferred tax continued The table below analyses the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon.
Provisions Depreciation and other Retirement in excess NonAFS temporary benefit of capital distributable Investment Share-based revaluation 1 differences obligations allowances reserve properties payments reserve Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 2.6 2.1 1.0 23.4 8.2 4.1 18.0 46.0 Credit to the income statement 1.5 4.8 8.2 0.2 14.7 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 0.4 2.2 1.8 Charge direct to equity 1.0 1.0 Other movements 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2017 2.0 2.5 0.5 18.6 3.3 15.8 31.1 Credit charge to the income statement 0.3 0.1 3.9 4.9 0.5 0.7 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 0.4 23.8 23.4 Charge direct to equity 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2018 2.3 3.0 3.4 13.7 2.2 8.0 7.6 Note: 1.
The non-distributable reserve was a statutory claims equalisation reserve calculated in accordance with the rules of the PRA.
With the introduction of solvency II on 1 January 2016, the requirement to maintain the claims equalisation reserve ceased and the balance at 31 December 2015 was released to retained earnings.
The taxation of this release is spread over six years from the change in regulation.
It is provided for in deferred tax above as it represents the future unwind of previously claimed tax deductions for transfers into the reserve.
In addition, the Group has an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2018 of 4.7 million 2017: 7.4 million in relation to capital losses of which 4.7 million 2017: 4.1 million relates to realised losses and nil 2017: 3.3 million relates to unrealised losses.
Dividends and appropriations 2018 2017 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 2017 final dividend of 13.6 pence per share paid on 17 May 2018 186.1 2016 final dividend of 9.7 pence per share paid on 18 May 2017 132.4 2018 first interim dividend of 7.0 pence per share paid on 7 September 2018 95.8 2017 first interim dividend of 6.8 pence per share paid on 8 September 2017 92.9 2017 special dividend of 15.0 pence per share paid on 17 May 2018 205.3 487.2 225.3 1 Coupon payments in respect of Tier 1 notes 16.6 503.8 225.3 Proposed dividends: 2018 final dividend of 14.0 pence per share 192.5 2017 final dividend of 13.6 pence per share 187.0 2018 special dividend of 8.3 pence per share 114.1 2017 special dividend of 15.0 pence per share 206.3 Note: 1.
Coupon payments on the Tier 1 notes issued in December 2017 are treated as an appropriation of retained profits and, accordingly, are accounted for when paid.
The proposed final and special dividends for 2018 have not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The trustees of the employee share trusts waived their entitlement to dividends on shares held to meet obligations arising on the Long-Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Annual Incentive Plan and Restrictive Share Plan awards, which reduced the total dividends paid for the year ended 31 December 2018 by 2.4 million 2017: 1.6 million.
164 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 164 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company less coupon payments in respect of Tier 1 notes by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the year.
Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company less coupon payments in respect of Tier 1 notes by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
2018 2017 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 473.7 434.0 Coupon payments in respect of Tier 1 notes 16.6 Profit for the calculation of earnings per share 457.1 434.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,366.5 1,366.1 Basic earnings per share pence 33.5 31.8 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company less coupon payments in respect of Tier 1 notes by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the period adjusted for the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has share options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
2018 2017 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 473.7 434.0 Coupon payments in respect of Tier 1 notes 16.6 Profit for the calculation of earnings per share 457.1 434.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,366.5 1,366.1 Effect of dilutive potential of share options and contingently issuable shares millions 15.8 12.9 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share millions 1,382.3 1,379.0 Diluted earnings per share pence 33.1 31.5 16.
Net assets per share and return on equity Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity which excludes Tier1 notes divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts.
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts.
The table below analyses net asset and tangible net asset value per share.
2018 2017 m m At 31 December Net assets 2,573.1 2,715.1 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 566.8 471.1 Tangible net assets 2,006.3 2,244.0 Number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,375.0 1,375.0 Shares held by employee share trusts millions 10.4 9.9 Closing number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,364.6 1,365.1 Net asset value per share pence 188.6 198.9 Tangible net asset value per share pence 147.0 164.4 Note: 1.
Goodwill has arisen on acquisition by the Group of subsidiary companies and on acquisition of new accident repair centres.
Intangible assets are primarily comprised of software development costs.
CO. UK 165 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
Net assets per share and return on equity continued Return on equity The table below details the calculation of return on equity.
2018 2017 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 473.7 434.0 Coupon payments in respect of Tier 1 notes 16.6 Profit for the calculation of return on equity 457.1 434.0 Opening shareholders equity 2,715.1 2,521.5 Closing shareholders equity 2,573.1 2,715.1 Average shareholders equity 2,644.1 2,618.3 Return on equity 17.3% 16.6% 17.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 211.3 569.9 781.2 Acquisitions and additions 1.0 72.2 73.2 At 31 December 2017 212.3 642.1 854.4 Acquisitions and additions 0.4 142.0 142.4 1 Disposals and write-off 4.7 4.7 At 31 December 2018 212.7 779.4 992.1 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2017 272.3 272.3 Charge for the year 54.1 54.1 2 Impairment losses 56.9 56.9 At 31 December 2017 383.3 383.3 Charge for the year 45.2 45.2 1 Disposals and write-off 4.7 4.7 2 Impairment losses 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2018 425.3 425.3 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 212.7 354.1 566.8 At 31 December 2017 212.3 258.8 471.1 Notes: 1.
Disposals and write-off include fully amortised intangible assets no longer utilised by the Group in its operating activities.
The impairment losses relate to capitalised software development costs for ongoing IT projects primarily relating to development of new systems.
Included within other intangible assets, are assets still in development of 269.9 million 2017: 171.4 million.
These assets are reviewed for potential indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited 141.0 million, Churchill Insurance Company Limited 70.0 million and accident repair networks 1.7 million and is allocated to reportable segments.
The addition to goodwill in the year ended 31 December 2018 of 0.4 million arose on acquisition of a new accident repair centre.
The Groups testing for goodwill impairment includes the comparison of the recoverable amount of each CGU to which goodwill has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the event of indications of impairment.
166 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 166 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below analyses the goodwill of the Group by CGU.
2018 2017 m m Motor 128.1 127.7 Home 45.8 45.8 Rescue and other personal lines 28.7 28.7 Commercial 10.1 10.1 Total 212.7 212.3 There have been no impairments in goodwill for the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU fair value less the costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU.
Fair value is the estimated amount that could be obtained from the sale of the CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs were based on the value-in-use test, using the Groups strategic plan.
The long-term growth rates have been based on gross domestic product rates adjusted for inflation.
The risk discount rates incorporate observable market long-term government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate risk premium based on independent analysis.
The table below details the recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held.
Assumptions Sensitivity: Impact on recoverable amount of a: Terminal Pre-tax Recoverable 1% decrease in 1% increase in 1% decrease growth discount amount in excess terminal growth pre-tax discount in forecast 1 rate rate of carrying value rate rate pre-tax profit CGU % % m m m m Motor 3.0 11.5 1,112.3 247.4 264.2 32.5 Home 3.0 11.5 777.3 81.8 112.0 10.6 Rescue and other personal lines 3.0 11.5 557.7 56.0 75.7 6.6 Commercial 3.0 11.5 575.4 85.0 114.8 10.0 Note: 1.
Reflects a 1% decrease in the profit for each year of the strategic plan, which is five years.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold land Other and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 79.8 196.3 276.1 Additions 22.4 22.4 Disposals 15.1 15.1 At 31 December 2017 79.8 203.6 283.4 Additions 13.3 13.3 Disposals 31.9 31.9 At 31 December 2018 79.8 185.0 264.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 3.1 92.1 95.2 Depreciation charge for the year 1.1 26.8 27.9 Disposals 14.1 14.1 At 31 December 2017 4.2 104.8 109.0 Depreciation charge for the year 1.1 30.0 31.1 Disposals 31.5 31.5 At 31 December 2018 5.3 103.3 108.6 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 74.5 81.7 156.2 At 31 December 2017 75.6 98.8 174.4 The Group is satisfied that the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment is not less than its carrying value.
CO. UK 167 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19.
Investment property 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 309.3 329.0 Additions at cost 0.1 Increase in fair value during the year 12.7 21.6 Disposals 41.3 At 31 December 322.1 309.3 Note: 1.
The cost included in the carrying value at 31 December 2018 is 252.5 million 2017: 252.4 million.
The investment properties are measured at fair value derived from valuation work carried out at the balance sheet date by independent property valuers.
The valuation conforms to international valuation standards.
The fair value was determined using a methodology based on recent market transactions for similar properties, which have been adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property within the portfolio.
This approach to valuation is consistent with the methodology used in the year ended 31 December 2017.
Lease agreements with tenants are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include contingent rents.
Subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group, over which it exercises 100% voting power, are shown below.
Their capital consists of Ordinary Shares which are unlisted.
All subsidiaries a full list of which is included in note 2 of the Parent Companys financial statements are included in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Place of incorporation Name of subsidiary and operation Principal activity DL Insurance Services Limited United Kingdom Management services U K Insurance Limited United Kingdom General insurance The Group did not dispose of any subsidiaries in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
Reinsurance assets 2018 2017 Notes m m Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 1,159.9 1,141.1 1 Impairment provision 54.7 59.9 Total excluding reinsurers unearned premium reserves 33 1,105.2 1,081.2 Reinsurers unearned premium reserve 34 103.5 97.3 Total 1,208.7 1,178.5 Note: 1.
Impairment provision relates to reinsurance debtors, allowing for the risk that reinsurance assets may not be collected, or where the reinsurers credit rating has been significantly downgraded and may have difficulty in meeting its obligations.
Movements in reinsurance asset impairment provision 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 59.9 50.7 Additional provision 7.5 9.6 Release to income statement 12.7 0.4 At 31 December 54.7 59.9 22.
Deferred acquisition costs 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 185.4 203.1 Net decrease in the year 14.4 17.7 At 31 December 171.0 185.4 168 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 168 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
Insurance and other receivables 2018 2017 m m Receivables arising from insurance contracts: Due from policyholders 740.4 840.4 Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 82.9 71.3 Impairment provision of policyholder receivables 0.9 1.2 Impairment provision of agent, broker and intermediary receivables 0.5 0.9 Other debtors 54.0 71.6 Total 875.9 981.2 Movement in impairment provisions during the year Agents, brokers and Policyholders intermediaries Total m m m At 1 January 2018 1.2 0.9 2.1 Additional provision 24.7 0.2 24.9 Released to income statement 25.0 0.6 25.6 At 31 December 2018 0.9 0.5 1.4 24.
Derivative financial instruments 2018 2017 m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 19.2 51.1 Designated as hedging instruments: 1 Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1.4 1.0 Interest rate swaps 27.6 32.3 Total 48.2 84.4 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 20.6 11.3 Designated as hedging instruments: Interest rate swaps 5.3 0.7 Total 25.9 12.0 Note: 1.
Cash flow hedges in relation to supplier payments.
Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution scheme The pension charge in respect of the defined contribution scheme for the year ended 31 December 2018 was 28.7 million 2017: 25.5 million.
Defined benefit scheme The Groups defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although the Group remains the sponsoring employer for obligations to current and deferred pensioners based on qualifying years service and final salaries.
The defined benefit scheme is legally separated from the Group with trustees who are required by law to act in the interests of the scheme and of all the relevant stakeholders.
The trustees of the pension scheme are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2018 is 20 years 2017: 20 years using accounting assumptions.
The table below sets out the principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit scheme obligations.
2018 2017 % % Rate of increase in pension payment 2.2 2.2 Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.2 2.2 Discount rate 2.9 2.5 Inflation rate 3.3 3.3 WWW.
CO. UK 169 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
Retirement benefit obligations continued No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no obligations in the scheme that are linked to future increases in salaries.
Post-retirement mortality assumptions 2018 2017 Life expectancy at age 60 now: Males 87.3 87.5 Females 89.0 89.2 Life expectancy at age 60 in 20 years time: Males 89.1 89.3 Females 90.9 91.1 The table below analyses the fair value of the scheme assets by type of asset.
The liquidity fund is an investment in an open-ended fund incorporated in the Republic of Ireland which targets capital stability and income in the UK.
It is invested in short-term fixed income and variable rate securities such as Treasury Bills listed or traded on one or more recognised exchange.
The absolute return bond fund is an investment in an open-ended fund incorporated in Luxembourg which targets positive returns in all market conditions.
It is invested in short-term fixed income asset classes and seeks additional returns via a range of additional investments including certificate of deposits, rates and global currencies.
The majority of debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets.
The absolute return bond fund holds bonds that, rather than being traded on exchange, are traded through agents, brokers or investment banks matching buyers and sellers.
Movement in net pension surplus Present value of Fair value of defined benefit defined benefit scheme Net pension scheme assets obligations surplus m m m At 1 January 2017 102.5 90.5 12.0 Income statement: 1 Net interest income cost 2.7 2.4 0.3 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 1.0 1.5 2.5 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 3.1 3.1 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 3.5 3.5 Benefits paid 4.5 4.5 At 31 December 2017 101.7 87.3 14.4 Income statement: 1 Net interest income cost 2.4 2.1 0.3 Administration costs 0.2 0.2 2 Prior service costs 0.2 0.2 3 Settlement 2.4 2.4 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial losses arising from experience adjustments 3.5 3.5 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.4 0.4 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 5.8 5.8 Benefits paid 2.4 2.4 At 31 December 2018 95.6 78.6 17.0 Notes: 1.
The net interest income cost in the income statement has been included under other operating expenses.
This results from the outcome of a court case ruling in October 2018 involving the Lloyds Bank pension schemes but leading to a one-off increase in liabilities for UK pension schemes more widely.
A number of historical annuity policies held by the scheme were transferred to individual members during the year.
170 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 170 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below details the history of the scheme for the current and prior years.
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit scheme obligations 78.6 87.3 90.5 72.0 79.6 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 95.6 101.7 102.5 85.1 83.1 Net surplus 17.0 14.4 12.0 13.1 3.5 Experience adjustment gains on scheme liabilities 1.5 1.2 1.2 1.0 Experience adjustment losses gains on scheme assets 3.5 1.0 13.7 1.9 12.9 Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes to the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions.
The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques.
Impact on present value of defined benefit Impact on pension cost scheme obligations 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Discount rate 0.25% increase in discount rate 0.2 0.2 3.9 4.4 0.25% decrease in discount rate 0.1 0.1 3.9 4.4 Inflation rate 0.25% increase in inflation rate 2.0 2.2 0.25% decrease in inflation rate 2.0 2.2 Life expectancy 1 year increase in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 2.7 3.1 1 year decrease in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 2.7 3.1 The most recent funding valuation of the Groups defined benefit scheme was carried out as at 1 October 2017.
This showed an excess of assets over liabilities.
The Group agreed with the trustees to make contributions of up to 1.5 million per annum in 2019, 2020 and 2021 in the event that a deficit subsequently emerges on the anniversary of the funding valuation date.
As a result of the most recent funding update, no contributions are expected to be payable in 2019 2018: nil.
Financial investments 2018 2017 m m AFS debt securities Corporate 3,916.0 4,170.5 Supranational 43.2 43.9 Local government 29.5 12.2 Sovereign 156.9 224.8 Total 4,145.6 4,451.4 HTM debt securities Corporate 101.0 103.6 Total debt securities 4,246.6 4,555.0 Total debt securities 1 Fixed interest rate 4,211.1 4,540.1 Floating interest rate 35.5 14.9 Total 4,246.6 4,555.0 Loans and receivables Infrastructure debt 289.6 316.4 Commercial real estate loans 201.6 169.0 Total 4,737.8 5,040.4 Note: 1.
The Group swaps a fixed interest rate for a floating rate of interest on its US Dollar, Euro and a small amount of its sterling corporate debt securities by entering into interest rate derivatives.
The hedged amount at 31 December 2018 was 1,206.1 million 2017: 1,591.5 million.
CO. UK 171 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 157.4 258.0 1 Short-term deposits with credit institutions 997.0 1,100.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1,154.4 1,358.6 2 Bank overdrafts 62.0 54.1 3 Cash and bank overdrafts 1,092.4 1,304.5 Notes: 1.
This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal.
Bank overdrafts represent short-term timing differences between transactions posted in the records of the Group and transactions flowing through the accounts at the bank.
Cash and bank overdrafts disclosure note is included for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2018 was 0.58% 2017: 0.29% and average maturity was 10 days 2017: 10 days.
Assets held for sale 1 2018 2017 m m Freehold property held for sale 4.2 Note: 1.
The freehold property held for sale at 31 December 2017 related to a property in Bristol which was sold in January 2018.
Share capital 2018 2017 Number Number 2018 2017 millions millions m m Issued and fully paid: equity shares 10 1 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 1,375 1,375 150.0 150.0 11 Note: 1.
The shares have full voting dividend and capital distribution rights including wind up attached to them: these do not confer any rights of redemption.
Employee trust shares The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Groups share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market and held by employee share trusts.
At 31 December 2018, 10,432,376 Ordinary Shares 2017: 9,945,473 Ordinary Shares were owned by the employee share trusts with a cost of 35.2 million 2017: 34.1 million.
These Ordinary Shares are carried at cost and at 31 December 2018 had a market value of 33.2 million 2017: 38.0 million.
Other reserves Movements in the AFS investments revaluation reserve 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 80.2 92.1 Revaluation during the year gross 121.4 8.8 Revaluation during the year tax 20.6 1.5 Realised gains gross 19.5 23.2 Realised gains tax 3.3 4.0 At 31 December 36.8 80.2 172 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 172 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Capital reserves 2018 2017 m m 1 Capital contribution reserve 100.0 100.0 2 Capital redemption reserve 1,350.0 1,350.0 Total 1,450.0 1,450.0 Notes: 1.
Arose on the cancellation of a debt payable to a shareholder.
Arose on the reduction of nominal value of each share in issue with a corresponding transfer to capital redemption reserve.
Tier 1 notes 2018 2017 m m Tier 1 notes 346.5 346.5 On 7 December 2017, the Group issued 350 million of fixed rate perpetual Tier 1 notes with a coupon rate of 4.75% per annum.
The Group has an optional redemption date of 7 December 2027.
If the notes are not repaid on that date, a fixed rate of interest per annum will be reset.
The notes are direct, unsecured and subordinated obligations of the issuer ranking pari passu and without any preference amongst themselves.
The Tier 1 notes are treated as a separate category within equity and the coupon payments are recognised outside of the profit after tax result and directly in shareholders equity.
The Group has the option to cancel the coupon payment which becomes mandatory upon breach of non-compliance with the Group SCR, a breach of the minimum capital requirement or where the Group has insufficient distributable reserves.
Subordinated liabilities 2018 2017 m m Subordinated guaranteed dated notes 259.5 264.7 The subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of 500 million were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year designated hedging instrument to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of 3-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points which was credit value adjusted to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013.
On 8 December 2017, the Group repurchased 250 million nominal value of the subordinated guaranteed dated notes for a purchase price of 330.1 million including accrued interest of 2.7 million and associated transaction costs of 0.6 million.
The remaining notes, with a nominal value of 250 million, have a redemption date of 27 April 2042 with the option to repay the notes on 27 April 2022.
If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the 6-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.
The Group has the option, in certain circumstances, to defer interest payments on the notes but to date has not exercised this right.
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves.
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors have been met.
CO. UK 173 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33.
Included within the incurred but not reported claims provision is a 55 million net release gross: 175 million release relating to assumed changes to the Ogden discount rate which have not yet been reflected in claims reported 31 December 2017: gross and net nil: 1 January 2017: 217 million net provision increase: 542 million gross provision increase.
Movement in prior-year net claims liabilities by operating segment 2018 2017 m m 1 Motor 276.3 318.6 Home 32.6 23.7 Rescue and other personal lines 16.1 6.8 Commercial 79.4 86.3 Total 404.4 435.4 Note: 1.
Comparative data has been re-presented accordingly to include Run-off segment prior-year claims movements within the Motor segment 2017: 43.1 million.
CO. UK 175 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 35.
Share-based payments The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in the form of an LTIP, a Restricted Shares Plan, a DAIP and Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans, including both the Free Share awards and a Buy-As-You-Earn Plan, details of which are set out below.
All awards are to be satisfied using market purchased shares.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP with awards granted in the form of nil-cost options.
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued employment by the Group and also the Group achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE.
For awards since August 2017, the Directors are subject to an additional two-year holding period following the three-year vesting period.
Awards were made in the year ended 31 December 2018 over 3.9 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 10.5 million at the 2018 grant dates 2017: 4.2 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 15.2 million.
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The table below details the inputs into the model.
2018 2017 Weighted average assumptions during the year: Share price pence 355 359 Exercise price pence 0 0 Volatility of share price 21% 20% Average comparator volatility 30% 30% Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk-free rate 0.9% 0.2% Expected volatility was determined by considering the actual volatility of the Groups share price since its initial public offering and that of a group of listed UK insurance companies.
Plan participants are entitled to receive additional shares in respect of dividends paid to shareholders over the vesting period.
Therefore, no deduction has been made from the fair value of awards in respect of dividends.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Restricted Shares Plan The purpose of the Restricted Shares Plan is to facilitate the wider participation in Group share-based awards to eligible employees.
These awards can be granted at any time during the year, generally have no performance criteria, and vest over periods ranging between one and three years from the date of the grant, subject to continued employment.
During the year awards were made over 0.5 million Ordinary Shares 2017: 1.1 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 1.6 million 2017: 3.9 million using the market value at the date of grant.
Deferred Annual Incentive Plan To incentivise delivery of performance over a one-year operating cycle, Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible for awards under the AIP, of which at least 40% is granted in the form of a nil-cost option under the DAIP with the remainder being settled in cash following year end.
During the year awards were made over 1.3 million Ordinary Shares 2017: 0.9 million Ordinary Shares under this plan with an estimated fair value of 4.9 million 2017: 2.9 million using the market value at the date of grant.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2018 have no performance criteria attached: there is a requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for three years from the date of grant.
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Free Share awards In early 2018, the Group offered all eligible employees a Free Share award granting 133 Ordinary Shares free of charge to celebrate the Groups fifth anniversary in October 2017 of its launch on the London Stock Exchange.
These awards have no performance criteria attached and vest on the third anniversary of the award grant date, subject to completion of three years, continuing employment.
The Group initially granted 1.4 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 5.4 million using the market value at the date of grant.
176 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 176 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Buy-As-You-Earn Plan The Buy-As-You-Earn Plan entitles employees to purchase shares from pre-tax pay for between 10 and 150 per month and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, matching share awards were granted over 0.4 million Ordinary Shares 2017: 0.4 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 1.5 million 2017: 1.3 million.
The fair value of each matching share award is estimated using the market value at the date of grant.
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued employment with the Group together with continued ownership of the associated purchased shares up to the point of vesting.
Movement in total share awards Number of share awards 2018 2017 millions millions At 1 January 20.2 18.1 1 Granted during the year 9.2 9.6 Forfeited during the year 2.7 1.3 Exercised during the year 5.4 6.2 At 31 December 21.3 20.2 Exercisable at 31 December 1.5 1.9 Note: 1.
In accordance with the rules of the LTIP and DAIP award plans, additional awards of 1.7 million shares were granted during the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: 3.0 million in respect of the equivalent dividend.
In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2018, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.58 years 2017: 1.39 years.
No share awards expired during the year 2017: nil.
The weighted average share price for awards exercised during the year ended 31 December 2018 was 3.58 2017: 3.61.
The Group recognised total expenses in the year ended 31 December 2018 of 21.0 million 2017: 14.8 million relating to equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
Further information on share-based payments, in respect of Executive Directors, is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
Trade and other payables, including insurance payables 2018 2017 m m Trade creditors and accruals 227.7 282.8 Other taxes 100.0 103.9 Other creditors 89.1 95.9 Provisions 72.8 74.2 Due to reinsurers 47.4 74.2 Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 11.9 18.2 Deferred income 4.7 4.8 Due to insurance companies 0.5 4.0 Total 554.1 658.0 Movement in provisions during the year Regulatory levies Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2018 31.7 6.4 36.1 74.2 Additional provision 47.5 2.8 32.5 82.8 Utilisation of provision 43.6 1.9 26.0 71.5 Released to income statement 3.9 8.8 12.7 At 31 December 2018 35.6 3.4 33.8 72.8 WWW.
CO. UK 177 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 37.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 2018 2017 m m Profit for the year 473.7 434.0 Adjustments for: Investment return 154.6 175.4 Instalment income 119.9 116.4 Finance costs 19.1 103.8 Defined benefit pension scheme net interest charge income 0.1 0.3 Equity-settled share-based payment charge 21.0 14.8 Tax charge 108.9 105.0 Depreciation and amortisation charge 76.3 82.0 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 1.5 56.9 Impairment provision movements on reinsurance contracts 5.2 9.2 Gain on sale fair value adjustment on assets held for sale 9.6 0.4 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.7 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 411.6 513.9 Movements in working capital: Net decrease in net insurance liabilities including reinsurance assets, unearned premium reserves and deferred acquisition costs 325.2 186.7 Net decrease increase in prepayments and accrued income and other assets 18.2 15.2 Net decrease in insurance and other receivables 105.3 7.1 Net decrease in trade and other payables, including insurance payables 103.9 41.2 Cash generated from operations 106.0 277.9 Taxes paid 102.6 76.5 Cash flow hedges 0.8 2.6 Net cash generated from operating activities before investment of insurance assets 4.2 204.0 Interest received 303.6 316.6 Rental income received from investment property 15.9 16.2 Purchase of investment property 0.1 Proceeds on disposal of investment property 41.3 Proceeds on disposal maturity of AFS debt securities 2,159.2 1,948.4 Proceeds from maturity of HTM debt securities 2.5 Advances made for infrastructure debt and commercial real estate loans 59.3 108.5 Repayments of infrastructure debt 49.2 31.8 Purchase of AFS debt securities 2,002.9 1,885.4 Purchase of HTM debt securities 18.5 Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 468.1 341.9 178 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 178 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below details changes in liabilities arising from the Groups financing activities.
1 Subordinated liabilities Interest rate swaps 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m At 1 January 264.7 539.6 16.3 38.4 Repayment of subordinated liabilities 326.8 2 Interest paid on subordinated liabilities 23.1 51.6 Interest rate swap cash settlement 5.8 19.9 Financing cash flows 23.1 378.4 5.8 19.9 Premium paid to buy back of debt issued 76.8 Amortisation of arrangement costs and discount on issue of subordinated 0.4 2.2 liabilities Accrued interest expense on subordinated liabilities 23.1 47.5 Unrealised gain on associated interest rate risk on hedged item 5.6 11.7 Realised gain on associated interest rate risk on hedged item 11.3 10.7 Net accrued interest on interest rate swap 0.2 1.2 Fair value movement in interest rate swap 1.3 11.7 Non-cash changes 17.9 103.5 1.5 2.2 At 31 December 259.5 264.7 9.0 16.3 Notes: 1.
The interest rate swaps relate to the Groups 10-year designated hedging instrument which exchanges the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of 3-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points which was credit value adjusted to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013.
This includes 2.7 million of accrued interest settled in relation to the 250 million of repayment of subordinated guaranteed notes in 2017.
Contingent liabilities The Group did not have any material contingent liabilities at 31 December 2018 2017: none.
Commitments Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessee The Group has entered into non-cancellable operating lease agreements for properties, vehicles and other assets.
2018 2017 m m Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 21.3 18.8 The following table analyses the outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases by the period in which they fall due.
2018 2017 m m Within one year 19.2 19.2 In the second to fifth years inclusive 56.4 58.1 After five years 148.7 154.8 Total 224.3 232.1 Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor The following table analyses future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of property leased to third-party tenants.
CO. UK 179 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 40.
Fair value Fair value hierarchy Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market.
In an active market quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
level 2 financial assets and liabilities are measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by prices from observable current market transactions.
These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where prices have not been determined in an active market, or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes or assets that are valued using the Groups own models whereby the majority of assumptions are market-observable.
level 3 fair value measurements used for investment properties, HTM debt securities, infrastructure debt and commercial real estate loans are those derived from a valuation technique that includes inputs for the asset that are unobservable.
Comparison of carrying value to fair value of financial instruments and assets carried at fair value The following table compares the carrying value and the fair value of financial instruments and other assets where the Group discloses a fair value.
Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value m m m m m At 31 December 2018 Assets held at fair value: Investment property note 19 322.1 322.1 322.1 Derivative assets note 24 48.2 48.2 48.2 AFS debt securities note 26 4,145.6 156.9 3,988.7 4,145.6 Other financial assets: HTM debt securities note 26 101.0 13.9 87.4 101.3 Infrastructure debt note 26 289.6 286.3 286.3 Commercial real estate loans note 26 201.6 201.6 201.6 Total 5,108.1 156.9 4,050.8 897.4 5,105.1 Liabilities held at fair value: Derivative liabilities note 24 25.9 25.9 25.9 Other financial liabilities: Subordinated liabilities note 32 259.5 297.8 297.8 Total 285.4 323.7 323.7 Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Assets held at fair value: Investment property note 19 309.3 309.3 309.3 Derivative assets note 24 84.4 84.4 84.4 AFS debt securities note 26 4,451.4 224.8 4,226.6 4,451.4 Other financial assets: HTM debt securities note 26 103.6 14.4 92.8 107.2 Infrastructure debt note 26 316.4 326.0 326.0 Commercial real estate loans note 26 169.0 169.0 169.0 Total 5,434.1 224.8 4,325.4 897.1 5,447.3 Liabilities held at fair value: Derivative liabilities note 24 12.0 12.0 12.0 Other financial liabilities: Subordinated liabilities note 32 264.7 328.7 328.7 Total 276.7 340.7 340.7 180 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 180 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS FINANCIALS V6.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Differences arise between carrying value and fair value where the measurement basis of the asset or liability is not fair value e. g. assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost.
Fair values of the following assets and liabilities approximate their carrying values: insurance and other receivables: cash and cash equivalents: borrowings: and trade and other payables, including insurance payables excluding provisions.
The movements in assets held at fair value and classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy are within investment property and are analysed in note 19.
There were no changes in the categorisation of assets between levels 1, 2 and 3 for assets and liabilities held by the Group since 31 December 2017.
Related parties Transactions between the Groups subsidiary undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and accordingly are not disclosed.
There were no sales and purchases of products and services to or from related parties in the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Compensation of key management 2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits 11.2 10.6 Share-based payments 8.9 5.5 Total 20.1 16.1 WWW.
