STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate website Shareholder warning The Groups corporate website is www.
Almost five thousand people contact the FCA about share It contains useful information for the Companys investors and fraud each year and victims lose an average of 20,000. shareholders.
For example, it includes press releases, details of Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure forthcoming events, essential shareholder information, a dividend investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that prove to history, a financial calendar, and details of the Companys be worthless or non-existent.
Or they can offer to buy shares at AGM.
You can also subscribe to email news alerts.
an inflated price in return for you paying upfront.
However, if you buy or sell shares in this way, Market you will probably lose your money.
The Company has a premium listing on the UK Listing Authoritys How to avoid share fraud Official List.
The Companys Ordinary Shares EPIC: DLG are Remember that FCA-authorised firms are unlikely to contact admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
you unexpectedly offering to buy or sell shares: Do not converse with them.
Note the name of the person Share ownership and firm contacting you, then end the call: Share capital To see if the person and firm contacting you are authorised You can find details of the Companys share capital in note 29 by the FCA, check the Financial Services Register at to the consolidated financial statements.
uk: Dividends Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm: The Company pays its dividends in sterling to shareholders copying its website: or giving you false contact details: registered on its register of members at the relevant record date.
If you want to phone the caller back, use the firms Shareholders can arrange to receive their cash dividend contact details listed on the Financial Services Register at www.
uk: payments in a bank or building society account by completing a dividend mandate form.
This is available from the Companys If the firm does not have contact details on the Register or registrar, Computershare Investor Services Plc Registrar, they tell you the details are out of date, call the FCA on in the UK.
You can find the Registrars contact details on 0800 111 6768: page 196.
Alternatively, shareholders can access their Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at shareholdings online and download a dividend mandate form www.
uk consumers scams: from the Investor Centre.
You can find details of this below.
Remember that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised Dividend Reinvestment Plan firm, you cannot access the Financial Ombudsman Service The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
This or Financial Services Compensation Scheme: enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy the Get independent financial and professional advice before Companys Ordinary Shares in the market.
You can find more handing over any money, and details on the Companys website.
If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
Shareholder enquiries Report a scam If fraudsters approach you, tell the FCA using the share fraud Shareholders with queries about anything relating to their reporting form at www.
You shares can contact our Registrar.
can also find out more about investment scams on the same Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in web page.
shareholding details, such as their address, as soon as possible.
You can call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Shareholders can access their current shareholding details If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, call Action online at www.
Centre is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website that enables shareholders to manage their holdings online.
The website allows shareholders to: check their holdings: update their records, including address and direct credit details: access all their securities in one portfolio by setting up a personal account: vote online: and register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
To access information, the website requires shareholders to quote their shareholder reference number.
Shareholders can find this number on their share certificates.
CO. UK 189 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Tips on protecting your shares Dividend tax allowance Keep all your certificates in a safe place.
Alternatively, From April 2018, the dividend tax-free allowance was consider holding your shares in the UKs electronic reduced from 5,000 to 2,000 across an individuals registration and settlement system for equity, called CREST, entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will or via a nominee: pay tax on their dividend income.
The rate of this tax depends on their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
Keep correspondence from the Registrar that shows your The Company will continue providing registered shareholders shareholder reference number in a safe place, and shred with a confirmation of the dividends paid.
Shareholders should unwanted correspondence: include this with any other dividend income they receive when Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address: calculating and reporting total dividend income received If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a to HMRC.
The shareholder is responsible for including all change of address and you have not recently moved, dividend income when calculating tax requirements.
If you contact them immediately: have any tax queries, please contact your financial adviser.
Find out when your dividends are paid and contact the Registrar if you do not receive them: Financial calendar Consider having your dividends paid direct into your bank 2019 account.
You will need to complete a dividend mandate Date Event form and send it to the Registrar.
This reduces the risk of 05 March Preliminary Results 2018 announcement cheques being stolen or lost in the post: 04 April Ex-dividend date for 2018 final If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar of dividend and special interim dividend your new account details immediately: 05 April Record date for 2018 final dividend If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers and special interim dividend registered in the UK or in your country of residence: and 24 April Final date for election under the Be aware that the Company will never call you concerning Dividend Reinvestment Plan investments.
If you receive such a call from a person saying 1 08 May Trading update for the first quarter they represent the Group, please contact the Company of 2019 Secretary immediately, by calling 44 0 1132 920 667.
09 May Annual General Meeting 16 May Payment date for 2018 final dividend Electronic communications and voting and special interim dividend 1 The Group produces various communications.
Shareholders 31 July Half Year Report 2019 can view these online, download them, or receive paper 1 08 August Ex-dividend date for 2019 interim copies by contacting the Registrar.
dividend 1 Shareholders, who register their email address with our 09 August Record date for 2019 interim dividend 1 Registrar, or at the Investor Centre, can receive emails with 15 August Final date for election under the news on events, such as the AGM.
They can also receive Dividend Reinvestment plan shareholder communications electronically, like the Annual 1 06 September Payment date for 2019 interim dividend Report & Accounts and Notice of Meeting.
1 05 November Trading update for the third quarter of 2019 Dealing facilities Shareholders who wish to buy, sell or transfer their shares may Annual General Meeting do so through a stockbroker or a high street bank: or through The 2019 AGM will be held on 9 May 2019 at the offices of the Registrars share-dealing facility.
Deloitte LLP, 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ, starting You can call or email the Registrar regarding its share-dealing at 11.00 am.
All shareholders will receive a separate notice facility using this contact information: convening the AGM.
This will explain the resolutions to be put to the meeting.
For telephone sales, call 44 0 370 703 0084 between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays, and For internet sales, go to www.
You will need your shareholder reference number, as shown on your share certificate, or your welcome letter from the Chairman.
These dates are subject to change.
190 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 190 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS ADD INFO V5.2
