STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 1.5 REVENUE RECOGNITION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration accordance with IFRS as endorsed by the EU and in accordance received or receivable for goods and services supplied to with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies customers, after deducting sales allowances and value added reporting under IFRS.
The accounting policies set out below have taxes: revenue receivable for services supplied to customers, as been consistently applied in 2018 and the comparative year.
opposed to goods, is less than ca.
Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership transfers to There were no new standards, amendments or interpretations to the customer, which depending on individual customer terms, is existing standards which have been published and endorsed by at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer the EU and which have a significant impact on the results, acceptance.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
financial position or presentation of the consolidated financial Service revenue received in advance is deferred and recognised statements for the year ended 30 September 2018. on a pro-rata basis over the period of the contract.
1.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION 1.6 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial defined contribution and defined benefit type.
instruments which are held at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern a Defined contribution pension plans: Contributions to the basis, as discussed on page 65.
Groups defined contribution schemes are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they fall due.
1.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial b Defined benefit pension plan: The deficit recognised in the statements of the Company and entities controlled by the balance sheet for the Groups defined benefit pension plan is Company its subsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the isexposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets.
with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent its power over the entity.
The assets, liabilities and results of actuaries using the projected unit cost method and by subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of rates on high quality corporate bonds.
The pension expense acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
for the Groups defined benefit plan is recognised as follows: i Within the Consolidated Income Statement: Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial Gains and losses arising on settlements and statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into curtailments where the item that gave rise to the line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial settlement or curtailment is recognised in operating statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in Interest cost on the net deficit in the plan calculated by preparing the consolidated financial statements.
applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability at the start of the annual reporting period.
Non-controlling interests, defined as minority interests, in the net ii Within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from Income Other Comprehensive Income : the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and amount of those interests at the date of the original business liabilities of the plan related to actual experience and any combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since changes in assumptions at the end of the year.
the date of the combination.
c Share-based payments: Equity-settled transactions which are 1.3 ACQUISITIONS where the Executive Directors and certain senior employees Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method as at receive a part of their remuneration in the form of shares in the the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is Company, or rights over shares are measured at fair value at transferred to the Group.
Goodwill at the acquisition date the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date represents the cost of the business combination excluding takes account of the effect of market based measures, such as acquisition related costs, which are expensed as incurred plus the Total Shareholder Return TSR targets upon which the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree in vesting of part of the award is conditional and is expensed to excess of the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to equity.
The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted to take Minority interests may be initially measured at fair value or, account of shares forfeited by Executives who leave during the alternatively, at the minority interests proportionate share of the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-market recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The related performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely choice of measurement basis is made for each business that shares will vest.
For the market-based measure, the combination separately.
Directors have used a predicted future value model to determine fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
1.4 DIVESTMENTS The results and cash flows of major lines of businesses that have The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust for the granting been divested have been classified as discontinued businesses.
The cost of shares in the Company There were no discontinued operations in either 2018 or 2017. purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust are shown as a deduction from equity.
90 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 1.7 FOREIGN CURRENCIES Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability The individual financial statements of each Group entity are method.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the thecarrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally and financial position of each entity are translated into UK recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary a Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency: differences can be utilised.
Temporary differences arise primarily Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional from the recognition of the deficit on the Groups defined benefit currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates pension scheme, the difference between accelerated capital of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At allowances and depreciation and for short term timing differences each subsequent balance sheet date: where a provision held against receivables or inventory is not i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the deductible for taxation purposes.
However, deferred tax assets rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises differences arising on the settlement or retranslation of from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a monetary items are recognised in the Consolidated Income business combination of other assets and liabilities in a Statement.
transaction that affects neither the taxable profit, nor the ii Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a accountingprofit.
foreign currency are not retranslated.
iii Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary currency are retranslated using the exchange rates at the differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where date the fair value was determined.
Where a gain or loss on the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary non-monetary items is recognised directly in equity, any difference and it is possible that the temporary difference will not exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised reverse in the foreseeable future.
No deferred tax is recognised directly in equity and conversely, where a gain or loss on a on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the non-monetary item is recognised in the Consolidated Groupcontrols the dividend policies of its subsidiaries.
Income Statement, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised in the Consolidated Income Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to Statement.
apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the Consolidated b Translation from functional currency to presentational Income Statement, except when the item on which the tax or currency: charge is credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the When the functional currency of a Group entity is different deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The carrying amount of from the Groups presentational currency, its results and deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and financial position are translated into the presentational reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient currency as follows: taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates tobe recovered.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there prevailing at the balance sheet date.
isalegally enforceable right to enforce current tax assets against ii Income and expense items are translated at average current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such tothe same fiscal authority.
an average rate does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction 1.9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT rate is used.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in Other accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Comprehensive Income: these cumulative exchange Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income bringing the asset into use, but excluding interest.
All repairs and Statement in the period in which the foreign operation is maintenance expenditure is charged to the Consolidated Income disposed of.
Statement in the period in which it is incurred.
c Net investment in foreign operations: Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other items of Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available part of a reporting entitys net investment in a foreign for use and is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on operation are recognised in the Consolidated Income a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less residual value of the Statement in the separate financial statements of the asset, over its estimated useful life as follows: reporting entity or the foreign operation as appropriate.
In the consolidated financial statements such exchange differences Freehold property between 20 and 50 years are initially recognised in Other Comprehensive Income as a Leasehold property term of the lease separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on disposal of the net Plant and equipment plant and machinery between 3 and investment.
7 years IT hardware between 3 and 5 years 1.8 TAXATION fixtures and fittings between 5 and The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
15 years Hospital field equipment 5 years Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit before taxation as reported in the Consolidated The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated Income Statement.
Taxable profit excludes items of income and useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and also each financial year end.
Assets held under finance leases are excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as liability for current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant tax, is calculated using rates that have been enacted or lease.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater management purposes.
CGUs to which goodwill has been than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses arising allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
carrying amount and are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to 1.10 INTANGIBLE ASSETS reduce the goodwill attributable to the CGU.
Impairment losses All intangible assets, excluding goodwill arising on a business cannot be subsequently reversed.
combination, are stated at their amortised cost or fair value at initial recognition less any provision for impairment.
b Impairment of other tangible and intangible assets Other tangible and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment a Research and development costs when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying Research expenditure is written off as incurred.
Development value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses and any costs are written off as incurred unless forecast revenues for a subsequent reversals are recognised in the Consolidated Income particular project exceed attributable forecast development costs Statement.
in which case they are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated useful life.
Costs are capitalised 1.12 INVENTORIES as intangible assets unless physical assets, such as tooling, exist Inventories are stated at the lower of cost generally calculated on when they are classified as property, plant and equipment.
a FIFO and weighted average cost basis and net realisable value, after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving b Computer software costs inventory.
Cost comprises direct materials, duty and freight-in Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, costs.
plant or equipment its costs are capitalised as other intangible assets.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over its Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all useful economic life of between three and seven years.
estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
c Acquired intangible assets business combinations Intangible assets that may be acquired as a result of a business 1.13 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS combination, include, but are not limited to, customer lists, Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group balance supplier lists, databases, technology and software and patents sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual that can be separately measured at fair value, on a reliable basis, provisions of the instrument.
are separately recognised on acquisition at the fair value, together with the associated deferred tax liability.
Amortisation is charged a Trade receivables on a straight-line basis to the Consolidated Income Statement Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, do not carry over the expected useful economic lives.
any interest and are reduced by a charge for impairment for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Such impairment charges are Fair values of customer and supplier relationships on larger recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
acquisitions are valued using a discounted cash flow model: databases are valued using a replacement cost model.
For smaller b Trade payables acquisitions, intangible assets are assessed using historical Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are initially measured experience of similar transactions.
d Goodwill business combinations c Cash and cash equivalents Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, interest excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration over bearing deposits, bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid the aggregate fair value of the identifiable intangible, tangible and investments with original maturities of three months or less that current assets and net of the aggregate fair value of the liabilities are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject including contingent liabilities of businesses acquired at the date to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost repayable on demand and can form an integral part of the Groups and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated cash management.
Transaction costs are expensed and are not included in the cost of acquisition.
d Put options held by minority interests The purchase price of shares to be acquired under options held by 1.11 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS minority shareholders in the Groups subsidiaries are calculated An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying by reference to the estimated profitability of the relevant amount of an asset or cash-generating unit CGU exceeds its subsidiary at the time of exercise, using a multiple based formula.
The net present value of the estimated future payments under these put options is shown as a financial liability.
The The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of: i its corresponding entry is recognised in equity as a deduction fair value less costs to sell: and ii its value in use: its value in use against retained earnings.
At the end of each year, the estimate of is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be the financial liability is reassessed and any change in value is derived from the asset or CGU, discounted using a pre-tax recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, as part of discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the finance income or expense.
Where the liability is in a foreign time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or currency, any change in the value of the liability resulting from cash-generating unit.
Impairment losses are recognised changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Consolidated immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
a Impairment of goodwill e Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to a The Group holds derivative financial instruments in the form of CGU: CGUs for this purpose are the Groups three Sectors which forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill exposure.
These derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges.
is monitored by the Groups Board of Directors for internal and 92 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequent changes in the b Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the fair value of foreign currency derivatives which are designated and effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised in equity of cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be an in the hedging reserve and in Other Comprehensive Income and effective hedge.
are reclassified to profit or loss on maturity of the derivative.
Changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives which are c Retained earnings reserve The retained earnings reserve ineffective or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting in comprises total cumulative recognised income and expense accordance with IAS39 are recognised immediately in the attributable to shareholders.
Bonus issues of share capital and Consolidated Income Statement.
dividends to shareholders are also charged directly to this reserve.
In addition the cost of acquiring shares in the The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the Company and the liability to provide those shares to relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as employees, is accounted for in this reserve.
well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging shares or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration paid, transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash including any directly attributable incremental costs net of flows of hedged items.
income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued No derivative contracts have been designated as fair value or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or hedges or net investment hedges.
reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income f Borrowings tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the equity holders.
These shares are used to satisfy share awards consideration received.
They are subsequently measured at granted to Directors under the Groups share schemes.
Borrowings are classified as non-current when Trustee purchases the Companys shares on the open market the repayment date is more than 12 months from the period end using loans made by the Company or a subsidiary of the date or where they are drawn on a facility with more than 12 Company.
1.19 RELATED PARTIES 1.14 INVESTMENTS AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS There are no related party transactions other than with the key The investment held by the Group comprises equity shares which management that are required to be disclosed in accordance are not held for the purposes of equity trading and in accordance with IAS24.
Details of their remuneration are given in note 5 to with IAS39 is classified as available for sale.
They are initially theconsolidated financial statements.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised in 1.20 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS AND Other Comprehensive Income.
AMENDMENTS TO PUBLISHED STANDARDS NOT YET EFFECTIVE The IASB has published a number of new IFRSs standards, 1.15 LEASES amendments and interpretations to existing standards which Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the arenot yet effective, but will be mandatory for the Groups lease transfer substantially all the risk and rewards of ownership accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2018. to the lessee.
Leases include hire purchase contracts which have Anassessment of the impact of these new standards and characteristics similar to finance or operating leases.
All other interpretations is set out below: leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Income IFRS15 Revenue from contracts with customers Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant IFRS15 replaces IAS18 and introduces a single, principles-based lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter approach to recognition and measurement of revenue from into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis salescontracts with customers.
The new approach requires the over the expected lease term.
identification of performance obligations in a sales contract and sets out when revenue is recognised based upon when those 1.16 OTHER LIABILITIES performance obligations have been met.
Other liabilities are recognised when the Group has legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is possible During 2018, a full analysis of the Groups significant revenue that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Other streams was undertaken with the assistance of key finance and liabilities are measured at the Directors best estimate of the management in each of the Groups businesses.
The analysis expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet performed enabled management to assess the impact of the date.
newstandard on the 2017 and 2018 financial statements.
1.17 DIVIDENDS This analysis confirmed that the majority of Group revenue The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the isderived from the sale of products which generally have one AGM: interim dividends are charged in the period they are paid.
Within the Life Sciences Sector there area small number of contracts where goods and services are 1.18 SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES delivered and there is more than one performance obligation: in Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly the majority of instances revenue for these contracts is already attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a being separately recognised.
Where revenue has been recognised deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The Group also for the delivery of goods, revenue recognition will be amended maintains the following reserves: toensure the element of revenue attributable to the service is separately recognised.
The financial impact on revenues is a Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all notexpected to be material.
foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign businesses.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Management however are required to make judgements, The Group will adopt IFRS15 for the year commencing on assumptions and estimates relating to certain assets and 1 October 2018.
As the anticipated impact of applying IFRS15 is liabilities that could potentially have a material impact over the not expected to be material, the Group will not restate the prior longer term.
These relate to: year consolidated financial statements.
1.21.1 ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING AND GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT IFRS9 Financial Instruments When the Group makes an acquisition it recognises the IFRS9 replaces IAS39 and concerns the classification, identifiable assets and liabilities, including intangible assets, at measurement and fide-recognition of financial assets and financial fairvalue with the difference between the fair value of net assets liabilities, introduces an expected credit loss model for the acquired and the fair value of consideration paid comprising impairment of financial assets and sets out changes to the hedge goodwill.
Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition accounting relationships.
method as described in note 1.3 and 1.10 of The Group Accounting Policies.
The key assumptions and estimates used During 2018, the Group completed an assessment of the impact todetermine the valuation of intangible assets acquired are the of IFRS9 and concluded that adoption of this standard will not forecast cash flows, the discount rate and customer supplier have a material impact on the Consolidated statement of attrition.
Customer and supplier relationships are valued using Financial Position, as the categories of financial instruments are adiscounted cash flow model.
Acquisitions often comprise an already being accounted for on the same measurement and element of deferred consideration and may include a minority valuation techniques as set out in IFRS9.
The Group also interest, which are subject to put options.
These put options determined that all existing hedge relationships will continue to arevalued at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Deferred qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS9.
consideration is fair valued based on the Directors estimate offuture performance of the acquired entity.
An initial assessment of applying the expected credit loss model for the potential impairment of financial assets indicates that The Groups growth strategy is underpinned by the successful there is unlikely to be a material impact on the consolidated execution of acquisitions.
This results in material amounts of financial statements.
The Group will adopt IFRS9 for the year goodwill and intangible assets principally customer and supplier commencing 1 October 2018.
As the anticipated impact of relationships being recognised in the Consolidated Statement of adopting IFRS9 is not expected to be material, the Group will not Financial Position.
As set out in note 1.11 of The Group Accounting restate the prior year financial statements on adoption.
Policies, goodwill is tested annually to determine if there is any indication of impairment.
Assumptions are then used to IFRS16 Leases determine the recoverable amount of each CGU, principally based IFRS16 replaces IAS17 and prescribes a single lessee accounting on the present value of estimated future cash flows to derive the model that requires the recognition of an asset and a value in use to the Group of the capitalised goodwill.
The key corresponding liability for all leases with terms over 12 months.
estimates made and assumptions used in performing impairment The liability is measured at the present value of future lease testing this year are set out in note 10 to the consolidated payments for the lease term: depreciation of the assets and financial statements.
interest on the corresponding lease liabilities is recognised in the Income Statement over the lease term.
1.21.2 INVENTORY PROVISIONS Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value The Group anticipates that on implementation of IFRS16, there as set out in note 1.12 of The Group Accounting Policies.
In the will be a material increase in the amount of the Groups lease course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish liabilities, along with a corresponding increase in tangible the net realisable value of inventory and impairment charges are property assets.
The charge for operating leases in the Income made for obsolete or slow-moving inventories and against Statement is unlikely to change materially, but the classification of excessinventories.
this charge will change reflecting the new depreciation and interest cost respectively, in place of the existing lease cost.
The The decision to make an impairment charge is based on a number Groups most significant operating leases relate to property as of factors including managements assessment of the current shown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
trading environment, aged profiles and historical usage and other matters which are relevant at the time the consolidated financial The Group expects to adopt the modified retrospective approach statements are approved.
with a cumulative adjustment to equity as at 1 October 2019 and as such will not restate the prior year financial statements.
The 1.21.3 DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION Group will complete a full analysis of the likely impact of the Defined benefit pensions are accounted for as set out in note 1.6 standard during 2019 and will report this impact in next years of The Group Accounting Policies.
Determining the value of the Annual Report & Accounts.
future defined benefit obligation requires estimates in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
These include 1.21 ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS discount rate, future mortality and inflation rate.
Management The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements makes these estimates in consultation with an independent does not require management to make any critical accounting actuary.
Details of the estimates and key sensitivities made in judgements, assumptions or estimates with regard to assets or calculating the defined benefit obligation at 30 September 2018 liabilities that could potentially have a material adjustment to the are set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
carrying amount of assets or liabilities in the next 12 months.
