STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GLOSSARY AND APPENDICES Term Definition and explanation Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios.
It is calculated using ABE historical data, actuarial methods and judgement.
A best estimate of reserves will therefore normally include no margin for optimism or, conversely, caution.
Annual Incentive Plan This incentivises the performance of Executive Directors and employees over a one-year operating AIP cycle.
It focuses on the short to medium-term elements of the Groups strategic aims.
Available-for-sale Financial assets that are classified as available-for-sale.
Please refer to the accounting policy AFS investment note 1.12 on page 139.
Average written premium Average written premium is the total written premium at inception divided by the number of policies.
Bootstrapping A statistical sampling technique used to estimate reserve variability around the Actuarial Best Estimate ABE.
Results produced from bootstrapping historical data are used to set and inform the level of margin incorporated in the management best estimate MBE.
Buy-As-You-Earn Plan The HM Revenue & Customs approved Buy-As-You-Earn Share Incentive Plan gives all employees the opportunity to become shareholders in the Company.
Capital The funds invested in the Group, including funds invested by shareholders and retained profits.
Claims frequency The number of claims divided by the number of policies per year.
Claims handling provision Funds the Group sets aside to meet the estimated cost of settling claims and related expenses that provision for losses and the Group considers it will ultimately need to pay.
loss-adjustment expense Clawback The ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid amounts for equity-settled share-based payments.
Combined operating The sum of the loss, commission and expense ratios.
The ratio measures the amount of claims costs, ratio COR commission and operating expenses, compared to net earned premium generated.
A ratio of less than 100% indicates profitable underwriting.
Normalised combined operating ratio adjusts loss and commission ratios for a normal level of expected major weather events in the period.
Commission expenses Payments to brokers, partners and price comparison websites for generating business.
Commission ratio The ratio of commission expense divided by net earned premium.
Company Direct Line Insurance Group plc the Company.
Current-year attritional The loss ratio for the current accident year, excluding the movement of claims reserves relating to loss ratio previous accident years, and claims relating to major weather events.
Deferred Annual For Executive Directors and certain members of senior management, at least 40% of the AIP award is Incentive Plan DAIP deferred into shares typically vesting three years after grant.
The remainder of the award is paid in cash following year-end.
Direct own brands Direct own brands include Home and Motor under the Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege brands, Rescue under the Green Flag brand and Commercial under the Direct Line for Business brand.
Earnings per share The amount of the Groups profit after deduction of the Tier 1 coupon payments allocated to each Ordinary Share of the Company.
Employee Representative A forum that represents all employees, including when there is a legal requirement to consult Body employees.
Expense ratio The ratio of operating expenses divided by net earned premium.
Finance costs The cost of servicing the Groups external borrowings.
Financial Conduct The independent body that regulates firms and financial advisers.
Authority FCA Financial Reporting The UKs independent regulator responsible for promoting high-quality corporate governance and Council reporting to foster investment.
Gross written premium The total premiums from contracts that began during the period.
Group Direct Line Insurance Group plc and its subsidiaries Direct Line Group or the Group.
Incurred but not reported Funds set aside to meet the cost of claims for accidents that have occurred but have not yet IBNR been reported to the Group.
This includes an element of uplift on the value of claims reported.
In-force policies The number of policies on a given date that are active and against which the Group will pay, following a valid insurance claim.
Insurance liabilities This comprises insurance claims reserves and claims handling provision, which the Group maintains to meet current and future claims.
International Accounting A not-for-profit public interest organisation that is overseen by a monitoring board of public authorities.
Standards Board IASB It develops IFRS standards that aim to make worldwide markets transparent, accountable and efficient.
Investment income yield The income earned from the investment portfolio, recognised through the income statement during the period divided by the average assets under management AUM.
This excludes unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments, and fair value adjustments.
The average AUM derives from the periods opening and closing balances for the total Group.
See Appendix A APM from page 194.
CO. UK 191 GLOSSARY & APPENDICES V5.2 WWW.
CO. UK 191 GLOSSARY AND APPENDICES CONTINUED Term Definition and explanation Investment return The investment return earned from the investment portfolio, including unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments, and fair value adjustments.
Investment return yield Investment return divided by the average AUM.
The average AUM derives from the periods opening and closing balances.
Leverage Tier 1 notes and financial debt subordinated guaranteed dated notes as a percentage of total capital employed.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards made as nil-cost options or conditional share awards, which vest to the extent that LTIP performance conditions are satisfied after a period of at least three years.
Loss ratio Net insurance claims divided by net earned premium.
Malus An arrangement that permits unvested remuneration awards to be forfeited, when the Company considers it appropriate.
Managements best These reserves are based on managements best estimate, which includes a prudence margin that estimate MBE exceeds the internal ABE.
Net asset value The net asset value of the Group is calculated by subtracting total liabilities including Tier 1 notes from total assets.
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts.
It includes claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Net earned premium The element of gross earned premium less reinsurance premium ceded for the period where insurance cover has already been provided.
Net investment The net investment income yield is calculated in the same way as investment income yield but income yield includes the cost of hedging.
See Appendix A - APM from page 194.
Ogden discount rate The discount rate set by the Lord Chancellor and used by courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases.
Operating profit The pre-tax profit that the Groups activities generate, including insurance and investment activity, but excluding finance costs.
Own Risk and Solvency A forward-looking assessment of the Groups risks and associated capital requirements, over the Assessment ORSA business planning period.
Periodic payment order These are claims payments as awarded under the Courts Act 2003.
PPOs are used to settle some PPO large personal injury claims.
They generally provide a lump-sum award plus inflation-linked annual payments to claimants who require long-term care.
Prudential Regulation The PRA is a part of the Bank of England.
It is responsible for regulating and supervising insurers Authority PRA and financial institutions in the UK.
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements where the Group transfers part or all of the accepted insurance risk to another insurer.
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding insurance claims and IBNR.
Restructuring costs Restructuring costs are costs incurred in respect of the business activities where the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure its activities.
Return on equity Return on equity is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the owners of the Company after deduction of the Tier 1 coupon payments by average shareholders equity for the period.
Return on tangible equity Return on tangible equity is adjusted profit after tax divided by the Groups average shareholders RoTE equity, less goodwill and other intangible assets.
For 2018 profit after tax is adjusted to include the Tier 1 coupon payments dividend and for 2017 profit after tax is adjusted to exclude one-off costs in relation to the buy-back of subordinated liabilities.
It is stated after charging tax using the UK standard tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.25%.
The profit after tax for comparative periods prior to 2017 is adjusted to exclude operating profit from the Run-off segment and restructuring and other one-off costs.
Run-off Refers to the lines of business no longer underwritten by the Group including Tesco Motor and Personal Lines Broker.
Solvency II The capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry, which became effective on 1 January 2016.
It establishes revised capital requirements and risk management standards.
It comprises three pillars: Pillar I, which sets out capital requirements for an insurer: Pillar II, which focuses on systems of governance: and Pillar III, which deals with disclosure requirements.
Solvency capital ratio The ratio of solvency II own funds to the solvency capital requirement.
Total Shareholder Return Compares share price movement with reinvested dividends as a percentage of the share price TSR at the beginning of the period.
Underwriting result The profit or loss from operational activities, excluding investment return and other operating income.
profit loss It is calculated as net earned premium less net insurance claims and total expenses.
192 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 192 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS GLOSSARY & APPENDICES V5.2 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Appendix A Alternative performance measures The Group has identified alternative performance measures APMs in accordance with the European Securities and Markets Authoritys published Guidelines.
The Group uses APMs to improve comparability of information between reporting periods and reporting segments, by adjusting for either uncontrollable or one-off costs which impact on IFRS measures, to aid the user of the Annual Report in understanding the activity taking place across the Group.
These APMs are contained within the main narrative sections of this document, outside of the financial statements and notes, and may not necessarily have standardised meanings for ease of comparability across peer organisations.
Further information is presented below, defined in the glossary on pages 191 to 192 and reconciled to the most directly reconcilable line items in the financial statements and notes.
Note 4 on page 158 of the consolidated financial statements presents a reconciliation of the Groups business activities on a segmental basis to the consolidated income statement.
All note references in the table below are to the notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 136 to 181.
In 2018, the Group ceased presenting APMs for the following measures: adjusted diluted earnings per share: operating profit from Ongoing operations: and adjusted profit before tax and after tax from Ongoing operations.
These APMs no longer provide relevant information, as 2018 results are based on total Group operations including the Run-off segment and restructuring costs which are included in the Motor segment.
Group APM Closest Definition and or reconciliation Rationale for APM equivalent IFRS measure Current-year Net Current-year attritional loss ratio is defined in the glossary Expresses claims performance in the current attritional loss insurance on page 191 and is reconciled to loss ratio discussed accident year in relation to net earned premium.
ratio claims below on page 158.
Combined Operating Combined operating ratio is defined in the glossary on This is a measure of underwriting profitability operating ratio profit page 191. whereby a ratio of less than 100% represents an underwriting profit and a ratio of more than 100% represents an underwriting loss and excludes non-insurance income.
Investment Investment Investment income yield is defined in the glossary on page Expresses a relationship between the investment income yield income 191 and is reconciled on page 194. income and the associated opening and closing assets adjusted for portfolio hedging instruments.
Investment Investment Investment return yield is defined in the glossary on page Expresses a relationship between the investment return yield return 192 and is reconciled on page 194. return and the associated opening and closing assets net of any associated liabilities.
Loss ratio Net Loss ratio is defined in the glossary on page 192 and is Expresses claims performance in relation to net insurance reconciled in note 4. earned premium.
claims Net investment Investment Net investment income yield is defined in the glossary on Expresses a relationship between the investment income yield income page 192 and is reconciled on page 194. income and the associated opening and closing assets adjusted for portfolio hedging instruments.
Return on Return on Return on tangible equity is defined in the glossary on page This shows performance against a measure of tangible equity Equity 192 and is reconciled on page194.
equity that is more easily comparable to that of other companies.
Tangible equity Equity Tangible equity is defined as equity excluding Tier 1 notes This shows the equity excluding Tier 1 notes less intangible assets within the balance sheet and is and intangible assets for comparability with reconciled on page 165. companies who have not acquired businesses or capitalised intangible assets.
Tangible net Net assets Tangible net assets per share is defined as tangible equity This shows the equity excluding Tier 1 notes and assets per share per share as above expressed as a value per share and is reconciled intangible assets per share for comparability with in note 16 on page 165. companies who have not acquired businesses or capitalised intangible assets.
CO. UK 193 GLOSSARY & APPENDICES V5.2 WWW.
CO. UK 193 GLOSSARY AND APPENDICES CONTINUED Appendix A Alternative performance measures continued Additionally, the current-year attritional loss ratio within the analysis by division section has also been identified as an alternative performance measure, similarly reconciled to the financial statements and notes on page 29 and defined in the glossary on page 191.
1 Return on tangible equity 2 2 2018 2017 m m Operating profit 601.7 642.8 Finance costs 19.1 103.8 Profit before tax 582.6 539.0 Finance costs adjustment for one-off subordinated debt buy back 66.1 Coupon payments in respect of Tier 1 notes 16.6 Adjusted profit before tax 566.0 605.1 Tax charge 108.9 Tax charge using the 2017 UK standard tax rate of 19.25% 116.5 Adjusted profit after tax 457.1 488.6 Opening shareholders equity 2,715.1 2,521.5 Opening goodwill and other intangible assets 471.1 508.9 Opening shareholders tangible equity 2,244.0 2,012.6 Closing shareholders equity 2,573.1 2,715.1 Closing goodwill and other intangible assets 566.8 471.1 Closing shareholders tangible equity 2,006.3 2,244.0 3 Average shareholders tangible equity 2,125.2 2,128.3 Return on tangible equity 21.5% 23.0% 1 Investment income and return yields 2018 2017 4 Notes m m Investment income 6 159.2 167.1 5 Hedging to a sterling floating rate basis 6 30.8 27.0 Net investment income 128.4 140.1 Net realised and unrealised gains excluding hedging 6 26.2 35.3 Investment return 154.6 175.4 Opening investment property 309.3 329.0 Opening financial investments 5,040.4 5,147.0 Opening cash and cash equivalents 1,358.6 1,166.1 Opening borrowings 54.1 55.3 6 Opening derivatives asset liability 55.1 5.8 Opening investment holdings 6,709.3 6,581.0 Closing investment property 19 322.1 309.3 Closing financial investments 26 4,737.8 5,040.4 Closing cash and cash equivalents 27 1,154.4 1,358.6 Closing borrowings 27 62.0 54.1 6 Closing derivatives asset 11.8 55.1 Closing investment holdings 6,164.1 6,709.3 Average investment holdings 6,436.7 6,645.2 Investment income yield 2.5% 2.5% Net investment income yield 2.0% 2.1% Investment return yield 2.4% 2.6% Notes: 1.
See glossary on pages 191 and 192 for definitions.
Results for year ended 31 December 2018 are based on total Group operations including the restructuring costs and Run-off segment.
Comparative data has been re-presented accordingly to include the restructuring costs and Run-off profits in the 2017 operating profit.
The adjusted profit after tax reported in 2017 was 462.9 million and the return on tangible equity was 21.7%.
Mean average of opening and closing balances.
See notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Includes net realised and unrealised gains losses of derivatives in relation to AUM.
194 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 194 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS GLOSSARY & APPENDICES V5.2
