STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS DISCLAIMER This Annual Report & Accounts has been prepared for, and Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future only for, the members of the Company as a body, and no performance.
The Groups actual results of operations, other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents financial condition and the development of the business sector or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other person to in which the Group operates may differ materially from those whom this document is shown, or into whose hands it may come, suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
document, for example directly or indirectly as a result of, but not limited to, United Kingdom UK domestic and global Certain information contained in this document, including economic business conditions, the outcome of discussions any information as to the Groups strategy, plans or future within the UK parliament and discussions between the UK and financial or operating performance, constitutes forwardthe European Union EU regarding the manner and terms on looking statements.
These forward-looking statements may which, if any, the UK leaves the EU usually called Brexit be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, and the terms in due course of any future trading relationship including the terms aims, ambition, anticipates, aspire, between the UK and the EU, market-related risks such as believes, continue, could, estimates, expects, fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, the policies guidance, intends, may, mission, outlook, over the and actions of regulatory authorities including changes related medium term, plans, predicts, projects, propositions, to capital and solvency requirements or the Ogden discount seeks, should, strategy, targets or will or, in each rate, the impact of competition, currency changes, inflation case, their negative or other variations or comparable and deflation, the timing impact and other uncertainties of terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, future acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures or combinations goals, future events or intentions.
These forward-looking within relevant industries, as well as the impact of tax and statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
other legislation and other regulation in the jurisdictions in They appear in a number of places throughout this document which the Group and its affiliates operate.
In addition, even and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or if the Groups actual results of operations, financial condition current expectations of the Directors concerning, among other and the development of the business sector in which the things: the Groups results of operations, financial condition, Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking prospects, growth, strategies and the industry in which the statements contained in this document, those results or Group operates.
Examples of forward-looking statements developments may not be indicative of results or include financial targets and guidance which are contained in developments in subsequent periods.
this document specifically with respect to the return on tangible equity, solvency capital ratio, the Groups combined operating The forward-looking statements contained in this document ratio, prior-year reserve releases, cost reduction, reductions in reflect knowledge and information available as of the date expense and commission ratios, investment income yield, net of preparation of this document.
The Group and the Directors realised and unrealised gains and risk appetite range.
By expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to update their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless circumstances that may or may not occur in the future or are required to do so by applicable law or regulation.
Nothing beyond the Groups control.
in this document should be construed as a profit forecast Neither the content of Direct Line Groups website nor the content of any other website accessible from hyperlinks on the Groups website is incorporated into, or forms part of, this document.
CO. UK 195 GLOSSARY & APPENDICES V5.2 WWW.
