Dominos Pizza Group plc 92 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Statement of Directors responsibilities DTR 4.1 STATEMENT DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY In preparing the Company financial STATEMENT statements, the Directors are required to: Each of the Directors, the names and The Directors are responsible for functions of whom are set out on pages select suitable accounting policies and preparing the Annual Report and 48 and 49, confirms that, to the best of apply them consistently: Accounts, the Directors remuneration their knowledge, they have complied with make judgements and estimates that report and the financial statements the above requirements in preparing the are reasonable and prudent: Group and Company in accordance financial statements in accordance with state whether applicable UK with applicable UK laws and regulations.
applicable accounting standards and that Accounting Standards have been UK company law requires the Directors the financial statements give a true and followed, subject to any material to prepare financial statements for fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial departures disclosed and explained each financial year.
Under that law, the position and profit of the Group and the in the financial statements: and Directors have prepared the Group Company and of the Groups income financial statements in accordance statement for that period.
In addition, prepare the financial statements on with International Financial Reporting each of the Directors confirms that the the going concern basis unless it is Standards as adopted by the European strategic report represented by the inappropriate to presume that the Union IFRS and applicable UK law.
Directors report includes a fair review of Company will continue in business.
Further, they have elected to prepare the development and performance of the The Directors are responsible for the Company financial statements in business and the position of the Company keeping adequate accounting records accordance with UK accounting standards and Group, together with a description that disclose with reasonable accuracy UK GAAP and applicable UK law.
of the principal risks and uncertainties at any time the financial position of the that it faces.
Under company law the Directors must Company and the Group and enable not approve the financial statements them to ensure that the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for unless they are satisfied that they are and Accounts and financial statements preparing the Annual Report in a true and fair view of the Group and comply with the Companies Act 2006 accordance with applicable law and Company and of the profit or loss of the and, with regard to the Group financial regulations.
Having taken advice from the Group for that period.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Audit Committee, the Board considers Regulation.
They are also responsible the Annual Report and Accounts, taken In preparing the Group financial for the system of internal control for as a whole, to be fair, balanced and statements, the Directors are required to: safeguarding the assets of the Company understandable and that it provides select suitable accounting policies in and the Group and hence for taking the information necessary for the accordance with IAS 8 Accounting reasonable steps to prevent and detect shareholders to assess the Companys Policies, Changes in Accounting fraud and other irregularities.
and Groups performance, business Estimates and Errors and then apply model and strategy.
A copy of the financial statements of the them consistently: Company is posted on the Companys Signed on behalf of the Board present information, including website.
The Directors are responsible accounting policies, in a manner which for the maintenance and integrity of presents relevant, reliable, comparable the corporate and financial information David Wild and understandable information: included on the website.
Information Chief Executive Officer provide additional disclosures published on the Companys website 11 March 2019 when compliance with the specific is accessible in many countries with requirements in IFRS is insufficient to different legal requirements.
Legislation enable users to understand the impact in the United Kingdom governing the of particular transactions, other events preparation and dissemination of financial and conditions on the Groups financial statements may differ from legislation in position and financial performance: and other jurisdictions.
state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 93 Independent Auditors report to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc OPINION In our opinion: Dominos Pizza Group plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 December 2018 Balance sheet as at 30 December 2018 Consolidated income statement for the 52 week period then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 52 week period then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the 52 week Statement of changes in equity for the 52 week period then ended period then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the 52 week period then ended Related notes 1 to 34 to the financial statements, including a Related notes 1 to 14 to the financial statements including a summary of significant accounting policies summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 94 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 34 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 34 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 107 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 91 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Impairment of acquired goodwill and intangible assets Key audit matters Susceptibility to management override Recharging expenditure incurred by the Group to the National Advertising Fund and eCommerce Fund the Funds Recognition of revenue through manual journals Classification and disclosure of non-underlying items Reversionary interest share-based compensation scheme taxation We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 9 2017: 5 components and audit Audit scope procedures on specific balances for a further 6 2017: 6 components.
The increase in components subject to an audit of the complete financial information is due to our increased risk assessment as result of the poor control environment in Norway.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of Profit before non-underlying items and taxation, 98% of Revenue and 86% of Total assets.
Overall Group materiality of 4.7m which represents 5% of profit before non-underlying items Materiality and taxation.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 95 KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Impairment of acquired Goodwill We obtained the impairment analyses produced by management and tested the logical and Group Observations and Intangible Assets arithmetic accuracy, and to ensure that they had been prepared in line with the guidance The impairment provided in IAS 36.
Management have applied a discounted cash flow value in use model to charge recorded by Refer to the Accounting policies page London Corporate Stores and Iceland.
For Sweden, a discounted cash flow fair value less management and the 110 : and note 14 Intangible Assets of cost to sell model has been applied.
For Norway and Switzerland management applied a fair remaining carrying the Consolidated Financial Statements value less cost to sell approach, using an Average Weekly Unit Sales AWUS multiple.
value of the acquired page 133. goodwill and intangible We compared the current year performance of each acquired business to managements assets is consistent The acquisition in the year of due diligence and investment appraisal models produced ahead of the acquisition dates, to with the valuation Have More Fun London Limited identify bias within managements impairment model assumptions.
models produced by generated 7.4m of goodwill and Discounted Cashflow Model management.
For the valuations based upon a discounted cashflow, namely Sweden, Iceland and the We are satisfied that This is in addition to the brought London Corporate Stores, we performed procedures to obtain an understanding of the Management has forward goodwill and intangible underlying assumptions made in the forecasts and corroborated the appropriateness of disclosed reasonable assets across the following cash these assumptions to supporting documentation.
possible changes in generating units CGUs : - The key assumptions included: key assumptions which Nordics - 43.9m would give rise to a New store openings London Corporate Stores - 30.8m further impairment Like for like sales growth adjustment in the Switzerland - 4.5m financial statements with Discount rate In Switzerland, Norway and Sweden respect to the London Forecast growth rate the 2018 financial performance has Corporate Stores, been loss-making.
In determining We have inspected managements planned store opening schedules and, where available, and the businesses in the recoverable amounts of the obtained lease agreements and heads of terms relating to these new stores.
We compared Sweden, Norway and goodwill and intangible assets, the new store opening assumptions to the required new store openings per the Master Switzerland.
significant judgement over the future Franchise Agreement, to establish the risk that non-compliance with the store opening Plc Entity Observations trading projections is necessary.
requirements would have on the valuation.
We concluded that the These judgements are susceptible to We tested the reasonableness of the like for like sales growth by comparing managements impairment adjustments management bias and execution risk.
historical forecast accuracy and managements operational plan for future growth.
recorded against Management has recorded an the loans and cost of We tested the discount rates, with the involvement of our internal valuation specialists, by impairment charge in the year of investment in the entitys reference to comparable market data and the specific risk profile relevant to each respective 14.1m across these 3 CGUs.
We tested the reasonableness of forecast growth rates by comparing managements were appropriate.
The London Corporate Stores historical forecast accuracy and examining for consistency against the strategic and and Iceland CGUs continue to be operational plans designed and implemented by management and obtaining supporting profitable and the recoverable documentation.
amounts support the related carrying We performed sensitivity analysis over the key assumptions within the impairment model to values of goodwill and intangible determine the parameters that, should they arise, would give a different conclusion on the assets.
However, further impairment carrying value of goodwill.
adjustments could be required if performance of the businesses fails to Fair value less cost to sell meet the key assumptions used in the For the CGUs valued based upon a multiple of the average 12 months trailing AWUS, we have: impairment models.
Compared the multiple applied by management to comparable market transactions Plc entity Risk Corroborated the AWUS to historic audited data, which included confirming the existence The plc entity financial statements of the stores included gross investments in Iceland, We compared the cost to sell assumed by management to comparable market Norway and Sweden amounting transactions to 76.6m, and loans receivable from Iceland, Norway and Sweden Disclosure amounting to 27.0m.
As part of the We have compared the disclosures made by management, with the requirements of IFRS, impairment testing process described specifically IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
above, an impairment write down in We tested the calculations of the disclosed sensitivities for arithmetical accuracy.
the plc entity amounting to 31.9m was recorded.
We considered the completeness of disclosure of reasonable possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value by Risk movement comparing the disclosed sensitivities to our own assessment of reasonable possible changes in key assumptions.
Plc entity investments and loans We compared the recoverable amounts determined by managements impairment models to the values of the investment and loans receivable to determine the appropriateness of the impairment adjustments recorded in the entity financial statements.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 96 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee National Advertising Fund and eCommerce We inspected correspondence between franchisees and the Group in We identified no material Fund expenditure respect of the budget vs actual costs and how franchisee contributions expenses charged will be utilised.
against the Funds which Refer to the Accounting policies page 115 : and note 16 did not meet the criteria of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 138 We inspected the minutes of the Marketing Advisory Council MAC, set out in the Standard performed enquiries with management and interviewed a sample of Franchisees pay contributions which are collected Franchise Arrangements franchisees who sit as members of the MAC to identify instances of by the Group for specific use within the National with franchisees.
disagreement in relation to amounts recharged.
Advertising Fund and eCommerce Fund The Funds.
The Funds are operated by the Group on behalf of We performed testing to confirm that costs charged to the funds are franchisees with the objective of driving revenues permitted costs under the Store Franchise Arrangement rules by selecting for their stores.
Total contributions collected from a sample of expenses and corroborating to supporting documentation.
franchisees and transferred to the Funds for the 52 We identified manual journals posted to the Funds and, where significant, week period amounted to 50.0m 2017: 46.8m and understood the rationale for the journal entry and agreed the journals to the net balance of the Funds at 30 December 2018 relevant supporting documentation.
We performed a proof in total of credits to the funds based upon a fixed The Funds are governed by a framework.
The percentage of system sales.
System sales were substantively tested by description of activities permitted to be expensed selecting a sample of items to test to supporting documentation.
against the funds in accordance with the Store Franchise Arrangements with franchisees, and Given the higher level of chargebacks during the year, we tested whether monitored by the Marketing Advisory Council MAC the Group has a legal right to recharge these amounts to the eCommerce are such that judgement is required to determine fund, by reading and discussing the advice from the Groups legal advisor the eligibility and extent of costs to be recharged and relevant clauses from the Standard Franchise Agreement.
from the Group to the Funds.
The recharging of expenditure incurred by the Group on behalf of the Funds is susceptible to management override through inappropriate expenditure being charged to the Funds.
Risk movement Revenue recognition We performed detailed testing over revenue recognition as follows: Revenue was recognised in accordance with the Refer to the Accounting policies page 117 : and note 3 For 3 of the full scope components and 1 specific scope component Groups accounting Revenue of the Consolidated Financial Statements representing 81% of applicable Group revenues, we used data analysis policies and we page 120. tools to analyse all the revenue transactions for the royalties, franchise identified no evidence of fees, sales to franchisees excluding rebates and rental income for the Total Group revenue is 534.3m 2017: 474.6m.
We tested the correlation of revenue to cash receipts to verify the The Groups significant revenue streams include respect of inappropriate occurrence of revenue.
royalties, corporate store sales, sales to franchisees manual journals recorded and rental income.
For those full or specific-scope components where we did not use in revenue.
data analysis tools, we performed alternative substantive procedures We continue to assess revenue recognition as an area over revenue recognition, including tracing from origination of of audit risk which has a significant effect on our audit revenue through to the general ledger to ensure that the revenue was strategy and our allocation of resources.
appropriately recorded in the correct period and at the correct value.
There is a risk of misstatement of revenue arising from For all full and specific-scope components, we performed analytical the susceptibility to management override through procedures using the inter-relationship of system sales, royalty income recording of inappropriate manual journals.
and sales to franchisees to analyse movements in revenue year on year.
Risk movement We performed a test of underlying transactions through to supporting documentation, to corroborate the system sales data.
In the execution of our journal entry testing, we performed testing over a sample of manual journal entries recorded for each revenue stream.
We tested these journals to supporting documentation and validated that the revenue recognition criteria were fulfilled to gain assurance over the occurrence and measurement assertion.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 97 Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Non-underlying items We have examined the items classified as non-underlying to The income and understand managements rationale for the separate presentation expenses presented as Refer to the Accounting policies page 108 : and note 7 Nonand assessed the appropriateness of the presentation by reference non-underlying items underlying items of the Consolidated Financial Statements to the Groups accounting policies and the Financial Reporting are consistent with the page 123.
Council guidance in this area.
Groups accounting Total non-underlying expenses of 40.9m, offset by income policy.
We traced the amounts presented as non-underlying items to of 11.1m were recognised in the year.
supporting evidence to assess whether the occurrence and measurement of the items was appropriate.
The Groups accounting policy is to present separately, as non-underlying items, income and expenses where such We performed analytical review of the income statement to assess disclosure is considered useful to the users of the financial whether income gains classified within underlying operations, statements in helping them understand the underlying met the definition of non-underlying.
We also assessed unusual business performance.
transactions during the year and whether they should be classified as Non-underlying items are not defined by IFRS and therefore underlying or non-underlying.
As part of our journal entry testing judgement is required in determining the appropriateness of procedures we performed a search for unusual credit entries to the such classification.
Such judgement may be susceptible to income statement.
management bias to meet market expectations of underlying We read the disclosures regarding items classified as non-underlying, PBT and or to enhance remuneration incentive awards.
with a focus on whether they provide an understanding of why they Risk movement are excluded from underlying performance and can be linked to a statutory measure.
Reversionary interest share-based compensation We engaged with our remuneration tax specialists to identify new We are satisfied that scheme taxation developments from HMRC claims against other companies, including the carrying value of the any applicable judicial precedent.
provision remains within Refer to the Directors Remuneration Report page 81, an acceptable range.
Directors Report page 90, Audit Committee Report page We inspected correspondence with the Groups legal and tax 63 : Accounting policies page 107 : and note 24 and 34 advisors to identify further relevant correspondence with HMRC We consider the of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 146 and on the matter.
disclosures in respect 163, respectively of key judgements, We inspected minutes of meetings held by the non-executive directors remuneration, Certain of the Groups historic share-based compensation directors in respect of the provision and possible next steps.
related party arrangements dating from 2003 to 2010 involved the use of We assessed the potential timing of provision utilisation and the transactions and employee benefit trusts which provided award recipients impact of discounting the provision provisions proposed by with reversionary interests in the form of share appreciation management to be in rights.
Significant judgement isrequired to determine the We have compared the disclosures made by management, with accordance with treatment of suchcompensation from an employment the requirements of IFRS and Company Law, specifically including the relevant accounting taxperspective.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent standards and Liabilities and Contingent Assets, Companies Act 2006 and the There is a risk that if HMRC were to reach a different company law.
judgement on the employment tax treatment of the compensation arrangements, this may give rise to material adverse income statement and or cash flow variances.
During 2018 the Group updated its legal advice following recent decisions by the Supreme Court concerning the taxation of historic remuneration structures.
This was received in January 2018.
A provision of 11m was recorded in 2017, there has been no change to this provision as this remains managements best estimate of the gross tax that may become payable to HMRC.
The Chairman and certain other former directors and employees were award recipients and have provided indemnities to the Group in respect of possible future employment tax payable by the Group.
No asset has been recognised in respect of amounts recoverable under indemnities provided by the award recipients as the recoverability of such amounts is not yet virtually certain.
Risk movement No additional Key Audit Matters have been identified for the parent company audit.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 98 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We consider factors including the size, risk profile, organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the twenty-nine reporting components of the Group, we selected fifteen components covering entities within UK, Ireland, Switzerland, Iceland and Norway, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the fifteen components selected, the primary audit team performed an audit of the complete financial information of nine components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining six components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within those components that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Of the six specific scope components, the audit procedures for five components were performed by the primary team.
For one component, we instructed a non-EY component auditor to perform procedures and determined the appropriate level of involvement of the primary team to enable us to confirm that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group.
The audit scope of the specific scope components did not include the testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
For an investment in associate, we instructed non-EY component auditors to perform specified procedures and determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to confirm that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group.
Of the remaining fourteen components that together represent 0% of the Groups Profit before non-underlying items and taxation, none are individually greater than 5% of the Groups Profit before non-underlying items and taxation.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by the primary audit team and component audit teams.
Profit before non-underlying items and Revenue Total assets taxation from continuing operations 100% Full scope components 83% Full scope components 81% Full scope components 0% Specific scope components 15% Specific scope components 5% Specific scope components 0% Other procedures 2% Other procedures 14% Other procedures Changes from the prior year The scoping of the eleven acquired entities Four Norway, One Iceland, One Sweden, Five UKI, has resulted in a change from our prior year scoping as a result of a full years results being consolidated in the current year.
Moreover, the four Norwegian entities have been designated full scope due to our increased risk assessment as a result of the poor control environment in that business.
Three entities have been designated specific scope with the remaining four entities being review scope.
A further acquisition was made during the period, this has been designated as review scope.
The procedures in relation to the acquisition accounting were performed by the primary audit team.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components audited by us, as the primary audit team, or by non-EY component auditors operating under our instruction.
For the nine full scope components and for five of the six specific scope components, audit procedures were performed directly by the primary audit team.
For one specific scope component, where the work was performed by a non-EY component auditor, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group.
The Group audit team continued to follow the programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits the full scope entities.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by members of the primary audit team, including the senior partner, to the component team in Norway.
These visits involved attendance at the audit close meeting and site visits to the Head Office and the different corporate branded stores.
A substantive audit approach was performed at the entities with relevant audit papers addressing significant risks being inspected.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 99 The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions Profit before taxation 61.9m of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for Starting basis determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.7 million 2017: 4.8 million, Non-underlying items before tax 31.5m Adjustments which is 5% 2017: 5% of profit before non-underlying items and taxation.
We believe that profit before non-underlying items and taxation is the most relevant Totals 93.4m materiality basis - profit measure used by stakeholders to assess the underlying financial performance before non-underlying items and taxation of the Group.
Materiality Materiality of 4.7m 5% of materaility basis We determined materiality for the parent company to be 4.7 million 2017: 4.8 million, which is consistent with our Group materiality.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
Based on our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2017: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 2.4m 2017: 2.4m.
We have maintained performance materiality at this percentage reflecting the results of our testing of the Groups systems and processes, susceptibility of the financial statements to management override and historical audit findings.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.4m to 2.4m 2017: 0.4m to 2m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2m 2017: 0.2m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 92, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Dominos Pizza Group plc 100 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 92 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 62 to 65 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 52 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and those reports have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and information about the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in: the strategic report or the directors report: or the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the FCA Rules We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 92, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 101 EXPLANATION AS TO WHAT EXTENT THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those regulations relating to health and safety and employee matters.
We understood how the Dominos Pizza Group plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, the Company Secretary, the head of legal and those responsible for legal and compliance procedures.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes, papers provided to the Audit Committee, discussion with the Audit Committee and any correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by reviewing the Groups risk register, enquiry with management and the Audit Committee during the planning and execution phases of our audit.
We also considered performance targets and their inuence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or inuence the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the programs and controls that the Group has established to address risks identied, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud and how senior management monitors those programs and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identied fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of the Company Secretary, head of legal, management: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
In addition, we completed procedures to conclude on the compliance of the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards, UK legislation and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS We were appointed by the Company on 20 April 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 30 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 19 years, covering the years ending 26 December 1999 to 30 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Christopher Voogd Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 11 March 2018 Notes: 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the Dominos Pizza Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
