Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 107 Notes to the Group financial statements 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 1.
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH IFRS The financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2019 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by David Wild.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 03853545.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB.
The Companys Ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the FCA and traded on the Main Market of the LSE.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks period ended 30 December 2018 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The material accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and are prepared using the historical cost basis with the exception of the other financial assets, investments held at fair value through profit or loss, contingent consideration and put option liabilities which are measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Please refer to the Directors report for further details.
b Judgements The following judgements have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements: Certain of the Groups historical share-based compensation arrangements dating from 2003-2010 involve a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of their employment tax treatment.
HMRC issued protective assessments in respect of potential employment tax relating to these historical schemes but the Group received advice from its tax advisors reconfirming the support for the non-taxable accounting treatment.
During 2017 the Group updated its legal advice following recent decisions by the Supreme Court concerning the taxation of historical remuneration structures.
This was received in January 2018.
As a result of this advice, which includes estimates of the Groups potential employment tax liabilities, a provision was recorded in the financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 amounting to 11.0m, comprising 2.6m employers national insurance contributions NIC, and 8.4m employees NIC and PAYE, including interest.
These amounts are unchanged at 30 December 2018.
There are numerous uncertainties involved in the calculation of the provision and until the matter has been agreed with HMRC and the beneficiaries, the net impact to the Group may differ materially from the current estimate.
In calculating the quantum of the provision a number of significant assumptions were made as follows: While the Company has not been approached by HMRC with a demand to pay any potential tax liabilities in respect of these historical schemes, HMRC have served protective assessments for 36.5m covering employers National Insurance Contributions, employees NIC and PAYE.
Our latest legal advice suggests that the full amount covered by the protective assessments is unlikely to be payable as the amounts protected appear to have been determined by calculating tax both on the grant and vesting of the awards received by beneficiaries of the schemes: no further employment tax is due in respect of awards granted to beneficiaries in periods that have not been protected by HMRC and for which the period in which HMRC is entitled to raise an enquiry has expired: and the beneficiaries of the arrangements, which among others include the Chairman and certain former Directors and employees, have provided the Group with indemnities to repay to the Group an amount equivalent to their share of future tax liabilities should they crystallise and become payable by the Group to HMRC together with related interest.
Based on the amount of employment tax currently provided, the amount estimated to be demanded from the beneficiaries under the terms of their indemnities equates to the 8.4m employees NIC and PAYE, calculated at the prevailing tax rates at the time, and related interest.
Details in respect of the Chairmans interest in this matter are disclosed within the Directors Report on page 90.
Details in respect of amounts relating to the Chairman, certain former Directors and Key Management Personnel are included within note 34.
As the tax liability has not crystallised, the Group is not yet entitled to seek recovery of the amounts due under the indemnities.
In view of the probable time scale and potential uncertainty of recovery of the amounts under indemnities from the beneficiaries, no contingent asset has been recognised in the financial statements.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 108 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED b Judgements We are working with advisors to determine an agreed course of action.
In due course the Company will engage with the beneficiaries with a view to recovering monies under the indemnities.
Stores within the Dominos Pizza system contribute into a national advertising fund NAF and eCommerce fund the Funds designed to build store sales through increased public recognition of the Dominos Pizza brand and the development of the eCommerce platform.
The Funds are managed with the objective of driving revenues for the stores and is planned to operate at break-even with any surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet for details please see note 16 : all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does not result in a profit or loss for the Group.
The Group acts as agent for the funds and any short-term timing surplus or deficit is carried in the Group balance sheet within working capital.
Therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the Group income statement.
Management consider any short-term deficits to be recoverable from future fund income: the assets and liabilities relating to the Funds are included in the appropriate headings in the Group balance sheet as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest with the Group: the presentation of the NAF and eCommerce funds on a net basis represents substance over legal form of the funds: and the cash flows relating to the Fund are included within Cash generated from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
Dominos Pizza Group plc DPG has made a number of acquisitions in the current and prior periods, with acquisition costs, conversion costs and other associated income and expense items incurred.
Significant impairments and one-off provisions have also been incurred.
These items have been considered by management to meet the definition of non-underlying items as defined by our accounting policy and are therefore shown separately within the financial statements.
Judgement is required to determine that items are suitably classified as non-underlying and the values assigned are appropriate as included in our non-GAAP performance measures policy.
Master Franchise Agreements are held by the Group for the UK, Ireland, Switzerland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
Management have treated these intangible assets as having indefinite lives due to the likelihood of renewal with DPI beyond the current terms without significant cost which represents a significant judgement.
c Key sources of estimation and assumption uncertainty It is necessary for management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following estimates are dependent upon assumptions which could change in the next financial year and have a material effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date: Management tests annually whether goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have suffered any impairment through estimating the value in use or recoverable amount of the cash-generating units to which they have been allocated.
Key estimates and sensitivities for impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are disclosed in note 14.
Estimation is required in determining the fair value of any gross liabilities of put options held by non-controlling interests over shareholdings in subsidiary companies.
The put option liability is based on a forecast sales multiple of the respective business during the exercise period, which is the key source of estimation uncertainty.
Determining the fair value of the Market Access Fee MAF, which relates to the amounts payable by Dominos Pizza Enterprises DPE to Dominos Pizza Group plc in future years, involves estimation of appropriate valuation inputs and the profitability assumptions underlying the business case on which the payment of the MAF instalments is based, including the future EBITDA performance of the business and other adjustments.
The business case valuation applies a discount rate to future cash flows as detailed in note 26.
The carrying value of assets and provision for closure costs arising from the Supply Chain Centre SCC network transformation impacting the Penrith site, which is earmarked for closure in March 2019, and the Kingston site requires estimation of future costs and residual fair values of assets.
Determining the fair value of consideration, including disposal of associate investments as part of step acquisitions, acquired intangible assets and goodwill acquired in business combinations, requires the use of estimates regarding the value of the associate investments, intangible assets and deferred consideration payable.
Key inputs are managements expectation of business performance and discount rates applied.
For details see notes 7, 26 and 28.
The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest, inputs which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees, as detailed in note 29.
The assessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets recognised on losses requires judgement based on the forecast performance of the business and likelihood of recoverability of the tax losses incurred.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 109 d Restatement to remove discontinued operations The profit and loss account for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 has been restated to remove discontinued operations and allocate the results to continuing operations, as these are not considered material for separate disclosure in either the current or prior periods.
During the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017, discontinued operations represented a loss after tax of 0.2m, which consisted of an operating profit of 0.2m and a taxation charge of 0.4m.
The operating profit of 0.2m has been allocated to administrative expenses.
This has restated the operating profit, profit before interest and taxation and profit before taxation by 0.2m.
The restatement has increased the tax charge by 0.4m, resulting in an impact on profit after tax of 0.2m.
For segmental purposes this restatement is allocated to the international segment as this is where the discontinued operations relate.
In reporting underlying and non-underlying results, the result from discontinued operations has been allocated to non-underlying.
e Basis of consolidation The full year consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up on a 52 or 53 week basis to the Sunday on or before 31 December.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Profit or loss and each component of OCI are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance, an assessment of recoverability is made.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity, while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
f Interests in associates and joint ventures The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The Group has also entered into a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of agreements to share control over other entities and share of rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining significant influence on joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
Where the joint venture is established through an interest in a company, the Group recognises its interest in the entities assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
g Foreign currencies The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying spot exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the same date.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historic cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on translation are taken to the income statement, except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and are taken directly to a translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 110 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED h Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at the acquisition-date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
The measurement of non-controlling interest is at the proportionate share of the acquirees net identifiable assets.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and, where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
i Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in profit or loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
Master franchise fees Master franchise fees are fees paid towards or recognised at fair value on acquisition of the master franchise for the markets in which the Group operates.
These are carried at cost less impairment and are treated as having indefinite useful lives.
Standard franchise fees Standard franchise fees are recognised at fair value on acquisition of the standard franchise for the area in which corporate stores operate.
As reacquired rights the fees are amortised over the remaining contractual term and are carried at amortised cost.
Such franchise fees are recognised only on acquisition of businesses.
Computer software Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised at the cost incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Internally developed computer software programs are capitalised to the extent that costs can be separately identified and attributed to particular software programs, measured reliably, and that the asset developed can be shown to generate future economic benefits.
These assets are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each of the assets, considered to be between three and ten years.
Capitalised loan discounts The Group provides interest-free loans to assist franchisees in the opening of new stores.
The difference between the present value of loans recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated via the royalty income and Supply Chain Centre sales that will be generated.
These assets are amortised over the life of a new franchise agreement of ten years.
The carrying value of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable.
j Property, plant and equipment Assets under construction are stated at cost, net of accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met.
When significant parts of plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives.
Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 111 Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight-line method on the following bases: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings 50 years Assets under construction Not depreciated Leasehold improvements Over the lower of the life of the lease or the life of the asset Fixtures and fittings Over 5 to 10 years Supply Chain Centre equipment Over 3 to 30 years Store equipment Over 7 years The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The majority of assets within Supply Chain Centre equipment are being depreciated over 10 years or more.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is derecognised.
All items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
k Prepaid operating lease charges Prepaid short leasehold property costs are classified as current and non-current prepayments.
On initial recognition these assets are held at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost over the length of the head lease.
l Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments such as derivatives and other financial assets at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability: or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
External valuers are involved for valuation of significant assets, such as unquoted financial assets, and significant liabilities, such as contingent consideration dependent on the complexity of the calculation.
Involvement of external valuers is determined annually by management after discussion with and approval by the Groups Audit Committee.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 112 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED l Fair value measurement continued At each reporting date, management analyses the movements in the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be remeasured or re-assessed as per the Groups accounting policies.
For this analysis, management verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents.
Management, in conjunction with the Groups external valuers as necessary, also compares the change in the fair value of each asset and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is reasonable.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy, as explained above.
m Financial instruments initial recognition and subsequent measurement A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
m i Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income OCI, and fair value through profit or loss.
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial assets contractual cash flow characteristics and the Groups business model for managing them.
The Group initially measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under IFRS 15.
Refer to the accounting policies in Revenue Recognition.
In order for a financial asset to be classified and measured at amortised cost or fair value through OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest SPPI on the principal amount outstanding.
This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at an instrument level.
The Groups business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows.
The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both.
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place regular way trades are recognised on the trade date, i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Subsequent measurement For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four categories: Financial assets at amortised cost debt instruments Financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative gains and losses debt instruments Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition equity instruments Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at amortised cost debt instruments The Group measures financial assets at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met: The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows: and The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 113 Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest EIR method and are subject to impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.
The Groups financial assets at amortised cost includes trade receivables, deferred consideration and loans to franchisees.
Trade receivables, which generally have seven to 28-day terms, are recognised and carried at their original invoiced value net of an impairment provision of expected credit losses calculated on historic default rates.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is considered remote.
The Group provides interest-free loans to assist franchisees in the opening of new stores.
These are initially recorded at fair value, with the difference to the cash advanced capitalised as an intangible asset.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss The Market Access Fee is classified as an other financial asset, initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement as other income.
Associated foreign exchange gains and losses and the interest income are recognised in the income statement as finance income or expense.
Derecognition A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is primarily derecognised i. e. removed from the Groups consolidated balance sheet when: The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: and either a the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if, and to what extent, it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership.
When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement.
In that case, the Group also recognises an associated liability.
The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the Group hasretained.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
Impairment of financial assets The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses ECLs for all debt instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss.
ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest rate.
The expected cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
ECLs are recognised in two stages.
For credit exposures for which there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from default events that are possible within the next 12-months a 12-month ECL.
For those credit exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is required for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of the timing of the default a lifetime ECL.
For trade receivables and contract assets, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs.
Therefore, the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date.
The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historic credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 114 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED m Financial instruments initial recognition and subsequent measurement continued m ii Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, and payables.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, and other financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term.
This category also includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by IFRS 9.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated at the initial date of recognition, and only if the criteria in IFRS 9 are satisfied.
The Group has not designated any financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit or loss.
This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
For more information, refer to note 21.
Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other finance costs that the Group incurs.
n Leases Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are currently classified as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest in the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 115 Assets leased under operating leases are not currently recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of the lease.
Group as lessor Rental income, including the effect of lease incentives and rent free periods, are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Plant and equipment leased out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Where the Group transfers substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset, the arrangement is classified as a finance lease and a receivable is recognised for the initial direct costs of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance income is recognised in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
o Impairment of non-financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
p Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
q National advertising and eCommerce funds In addition to franchise fees, franchisees pay contributions which are collected by the Group for specific use within the national advertising and eCommerce funds.
The Group operates the funds on behalf of the franchisees with the objective of driving revenues for their stores.
The National advertising fund is specifically used to pay for marketing and advertising, and the eCommerce fund is used to pay for the eCommerce platform and associated costs.
The funds are planned to operate at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet within working capital.
The Group acts as an agent for the funds, and any timing surplus or deficit is carried in the balance sheet within working capital and therefore the income and expenses of the funds are not included in the Group income statement.
r Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, as defined above, net of any outstanding bank overdrafts.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 116 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED s Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or losses can be utilised, with the following exceptions: when the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint arrangements, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to othercomprehensive income or to equity, in which case the income tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income orequity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax relates to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction on either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
t Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably measured.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, considering the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows if the impact of discounting at a pre-tax rate is material.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist when the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
u Pensions The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain staff with defined contribution schemes.
The contributions are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
v Capital reserve own shares Dominos Pizza Group plc shares held by the Company and its Employee Benefit Trust EBT are classified in shareholders equity as Capital reserve own shares and are recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of such shares.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 117 w Revenue The Groups revenue arises from the sale of products and services to franchisees, the charging of royalties, fees and rent to franchisees, and from the sale of goods to consumers from corporate stores.
Royalties, franchise fees and sales to franchisees Contracts with customers for the sale of products include one performance obligation, being the delivery of products to the end customer.
The Group has concluded that revenue from the sale of products should be recognised at a point in time when control of the goods are transferred to the franchisee, generally on delivery.
Revenue is recognised at the invoiced price less any estimated rebates.
The performance obligation relating to royalties is the use of the Dominos brand.
This represents a sales-based royalty with revenue recognised at the point the franchisee makes a sale to an end consumer.
Franchise fees comprise revenue for initial services associated with allocating franchisees allotted address counts or a change of hands fee when the Group grants consent to a franchisee to sell stores to a third party.
They are non-refundable, and no element of the franchise fee relates to subsequent services.
Revenue from franchisee fees is recognised when a franchisee opens a store for trading or on completion of sale of one or more stores to a third party, as this is the point at which all performance obligations have been satisfied.
Corporate store sales Contracts with customers for the sale of products to end consumers include one performance obligation.
The Group has concluded that revenue from the sale of products should be recognised at a point in time when control of the goods are transferred to the consumer, which is the point of delivery or collection.
Revenue is measured at the menu price less any discounts offered.
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property Rental income arising from leasehold properties is recognised on a straight-line basis in accordance with the lease terms.
Deferred income comprises lease premiums and rental payments.
Lease premiums are recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Rental payments are deferred and recognised over the period which it relates.
x Share-based payments The Group provides benefits to employees including Executive Directors in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of the equitysettled transactions is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair values of employee share option plans are calculated using a Stochastic model for awards with TSR-related performance conditions and a Black-Scholes model for SAYE awards and other awards with EPS-related performance conditions.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions and or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest on achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vested as described above.
The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding increase in equity.
When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the grant date fair value of the unmodified award, provided the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense, measured as at the date of modification, is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
This includes anywhere non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 118 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED y Non-GAAP performance measures In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain measures that are not required under IFRS.
The Group believes that these additional measures, which are used internally, are useful to the users of the financial statements in helping them understand the underlying business performance, as defined in the key performance indicators section of the strategic report.
The principal non-GAAP measures the Group uses are underlying operating profit, underlying profit before tax, underlying profit, underlying earnings per share and system sales.
Underlying measures remove the impact of non-underlying items from earnings and are reconciled to operating profits: system sales measure the performance of the overall business, as defined in the key performance indicators section of the strategic report.
While the disclosure of non-underlying items and system sales is not required by IFRS, these items are separately disclosed either as memorandum information on the face of the income statement and in the segmental analysis, or in the notes to the accounts as appropriate.
Non-underlying items include significant non-recurring items such as UK supply chain transformation, Norway conversion costs of stores acquired and post-acquisition integration costs, German joint venture store conversion costs, gains and losses on step acquisitions, Market Access Fee fair value uplift, impairments and amortisation of acquired intangibles and accelerated amortisation of he Groups mobile app and web platforms.
These items are not considered to be underlying by management due to quantum and nature.
Factors considered include items that are non-recurring, not part of the ordinary course of business or reduce understandability of business performance.
For a detailed description of items see note 7.
System sales represent the sum of all sales made by both franchisee and corporate stores in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Norway, Iceland, Sweden and Switzerland to consumers.
z Adoption of new and revised standards IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 has replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, covering the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, together with a new hedge accounting model and the new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment.
The standard has an effective date of 1 January 2018.
The new standard has had the following effects on the Groups financial statements: The Market Access Fee, a financial instrument relating to the underlying performance of the associate company Daytona JV Limited, was classified as an available-for-sale financial asset under IAS 39 and previously gains and losses were recorded within other comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9 this instrument is now classified as Fair Value through Profit or Loss FVTPL.
There have been no changes in the fair value of the instrument in previous periods and therefore there is no change to opening balances within equity.
The Groups impairment provision on financial assets measured at amortised cost such as trade and other receivables have been calculated in accordance with IFRS 9s expected credit loss model, which differs from the incurred loss model previously required by IAS 39.
The Groups history of low credit losses as a result of strong franchisee profitability and cash sales for corporate store sales has resulted in no change to the provision value previously recorded and there is no change to the opening balances within equity.
aa Adoption of new and revised standards IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 has replaced all existing revenue requirements in IFRS and applies to all revenue arising from contracts with customers unless the contracts are within the scope of other standards.
The new standard establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The Groups revenues that are applicable for IFRS 15 are royalties, franchisee and change of hands fees, sales to franchisees and corporate store sales.
The Group has performed the five-step model on each of these elements, identifying the contracts, the performance obligations, transaction price and then allocating this to determine the timing of revenue recognition.
For each of these there is no impact on the timing of transfer of control and therefore no impact on the timing of recognition of revenue.
There are no impacts in relation to performance obligations identified or changes in measurement.
The Group considered the accounting policy for the National Advertising Fund NAF and eCommerce funds on adoption of IFRS 15.
The Group operates the funds on behalf of the franchisees.
There is no impact on the income statement, which is consistent with prior years.
The Groups profit before tax remains unchanged and no adjustments to any line items have been made to the opening balances within equity.
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property falls outside of the scope of IFRS 15.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 119 bb Adoption of new and revised standards - other The following standards are effective for this financial year but have not had significant impact on the reported financial performance or position of the Group: Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions: Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses: and IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration.
None of the amendments above have an impact on the financial performance of the Group.
cc New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations that are relevant to the Group, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective.
Effective for periods beginning on or after: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs AIP 2015-2017 Cycle: IFRS 3 Business Combinations Previously held interests in a joint operation 1 January 2019 AIP 2015-2017 Cycle: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Previously held interest in a joint operation 1 January 2019 Amendments to IFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 1 January 2019 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 International Accounting Standards IAS IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 AIP 2015-2017 Cycle: IAS 12 Income Taxes Income tax consequences of payments on financial instruments classified as equity 1 January 2019 AIP 2015-2017 Cycle: IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation 1 January 2019 Amendments to IAS 28 Long term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2019 dd IFRS 16 Leases not yet adopted IFRS 16, replacing IAS 17, provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise right of use assets and lease liabilities for all applicable leases.
The standard has an effective date of 1 January 2019.
Due to the year end of the Group being 30 December 2018, the first period for which the standard will be effective will be the year ended 27 December 2020.
IFRS 16 will have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
On adoption of IFRS 16 the Group will recognise within the balance sheet a right of use asset and lease liability for all applicable leases.
Within the income statement, rent expense will be replaced by depreciation and interest expense.
This will result in a decrease in cost of sales and an increase in finance costs.
Where the Group operates as lessor the rental income will continue to be recognised on the same basis.
The Group operates as intermediate lessor for a significant proportion of its leases.
Where the sublease is substantially all of the right of use head lease, the right of use asset will be derecognised and recorded as a lease receivable, with interest income recognised in the income statement.
Where the sublease is not substantially all of the right of use head lease, but management judges that it is likely the sublease will be renewed to become substantially all of the right of use asset then the same treatment will be applied.
This will result in lease receivables and lease liabilities being recorded on the balance sheet with interest income and expense recognised separately in the income statement, replacing revenue and cost of sales.
Whilst a majority of the Groups property leases in the UK & Ireland are back to back with franchisees, there are certain sub leases which do not mirror the head lease, and the impact of these is currently being assessed.
For the international operations and UK corporate stores, the Group is the lessee and therefore the standard will have an impact.
This will also impact across the leased equipment in the UK and International, largely in the distribution and supply chain area.
The standard will impact a number of statutory measures such as operating profit and cash generated from operations, and alternative performance measures used by the Group.
The full impact of IFRS 16 is currently under review, including understanding the practical application of the principles of the standard.
The Group has purchased an industry standard property management software suite, and is currently working through the implementation of the tool which is planned to go operational in 2019: outputs will include the accounting entries necessary for the implementation of IFRS 16 but it is not practical to provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect until this implementation is complete.
The remaining standards listed above are not expected to have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 120 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 3.
REVENUE Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows: 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Sales to franchisees 327.1 315.2 Royalties, franchise fees and change of hands fees 62.7 61.4 Corporate store sales 119.9 75.5 509.7 452.1 Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 24.6 22.5 534.3 474.6 4.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION For management purposes, the Group is organised into two geographical business units based on the operating models of the regions: the United Kingdom and Ireland operating more mature markets with a sub-franchise model and limited corporate stores, and International whose markets are at an earlier stage of development and which operate predominantly as corporate stores.
The International segment includes Switzerland, Germany, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
These are considered to be the Groups operating segments as the information provided to the chief operating decision makers, who are considered to be the Executive Directors of the Board, is based on these territories.
Revenue included in each includes all sales made to franchise stores royalties, sales to franchisees and rental income and by corporate stores located in that segment.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss.
Group financing including finance costs and finance income and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operatingsegments.
The comparative period at 31 December 2017 has been restated to allocate goodwill on consolidation of 20.8m to the International segment as this is the segment in which the assets have been generated and is consistent with the allocation reviewed by the Board.
Unallocated assets include cash and cash equivalents and taxation assets.
Unallocated liabilities include the share buyback obligation, bank revolving facility and taxation liabilities.
At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Deferred tax asset 0.6 8.3 Cash and cash equivalents 24.8 29.0 Unallocated assets 25.4 37.3 Current tax liabilities 5.9 8.2 Deferred tax liabilities 6.5 7.8 Bank revolving facility 224.5 113.9 Share buyback obligation 15.8 18.3 Unallocated liabilities 252.7 148.2 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 121 Operating segments 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 restated International UK & Ireland Total International UK & Ireland Total m m m m m m Revenue Sales to external customers 94.8 439.5 534.3 73.0 401.6 474.6 Segment revenue 94.8 439.5 534.3 73.0 401.6 474.6 Results Underlying segment result before associates and joint ventures 6.6 99.3 92.7 0.7 92.7 92.0 Underlying share of profit of associates and joint ventures 2.5 1.7 4.2 1.5 2.4 3.9 Underlying segment result 4.1 101.0 96.9 0.8 95.1 95.9 Non-underlying items 26.7 14.2 40.9 6.4 13.8 20.2 Group operating profit 30.8 86.8 56.0 5.6 81.3 75.7 Net gain on step acquisition of foreign operation 5.8 Other income 8.2 Profit before interest and taxation 64.2 81.5 Net finance costs 2.3 0.1 Profit before taxation 61.9 81.4 Taxation 18.0 14.8 Profit for the year 43.9 66.6 Other segment information Depreciation 3.6 4.8 8.4 4.9 4.1 9.0 Amortisation 0.1 8.3 8.4 0.5 5.6 6.1 Impairment 14.3 6.4 20.7 0.8 1.2 2.0 Share-based payment charge 0.1 0.8 0.9 0.1 1.6 1.7 Entity-wide disclosures Royalties, franchise fees and change of hands fees 0.6 62.1 62.7 0.3 61.1 61.4 Sales to franchisees 1.4 325.7 327.1 0.6 314.6 315.2 Corporate store income 92.8 27.1 119.9 72.1 3.4 75.5 Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 24.6 24.6 22.5 22.5 94.8 439.5 534.3 73.0 401.6 474.6 Segment assets Segment current assets 12.0 52.0 64.0 7.9 54.0 61.9 Segment non-current assets 78.8 200.6 279.4 91.5 162.9 254.4 Equity accounted investments investment in associates and joint ventures 19.2 10.5 29.7 14.2 13.1 27.3 Unallocated assets 25.4 37.3 Total assets 110.0 263.1 398.5 113.6 230.0 380.9 Segment liabilities Liabilities 24.7 118.6 143.3 21.6 146.6 168.2 Unallocated liabilities 252.7 148.2 Total liabilities 24.7 118.6 396.0 21.6 146.6 316.4 Results for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reclassify results from discontinued operations not considered material as set out in note 2 d. Major customers Annual revenue from two franchisees amounted to 81.0m 2017: 84.7m and 74.1m 2017: 71.3m respectively, arising from sales reported in the UK and Ireland segment.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 122 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 5.
GROUP OPERATING PROFIT This is stated after charging: 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8.4 9.0 Amortisation of prepaid lease charges 0.3 0.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 8.1 5.4 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 16.8 15.1 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments Land and buildings 31.1 28.3 Plant, machinery and vehicles 5.1 4.2 Total operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 36.2 32.5 Impairment loss recognised on property, plant and equipment 7.5 2.0 Impairment loss recognised on intangible assets 13.2 Total impairment loss recognised 20.7 2.0 Net foreign currency gain loss 0.4 0.6 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 206.7 185.2 Changes in fair value of financial instruments 4.8 Loss gain on disposal of non-current assets 0.2 6.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group: 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Group and Company annual accounts 0.6 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the accounts of subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Total audit fees 0.8 0.5 Other services 0.2 0.1 Total audit and non-audit fees 1.0 0.6 Of which 13,300 2017: 6,600 relates to the Company.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 123 7.
ITEMS EXCLUDED FROM NON-GAAP MEASURES Non-underlying items included in financial statements 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 Before nonNonBefore nonNonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Revenue 534.3 534.3 474.6 474.6 Cost of sales 311.1 311.1 280.7 280.7 Gross profit 223.2 223.2 193.9 193.9 Other operating costs 130.5 37.7 168.2 101.9 19.5 121.4 92.7 37.7 55.0 92.0 19.5 72.5 Share of post-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 4.2 3.2 1.0 3.9 0.7 3.2 Operating profit 96.9 40.9 56.0 95.9 20.2 75.7 Net gain on step acquisition of foreign operations 5.8 5.8 Other income 8.2 8.2 Profit before interest and taxation 96.9 32.7 64.2 95.9 14.4 81.5 Finance income 0.9 1.2 2.1 1.8 1.8 Finance expense 4.4 4.4 1.5 0.4 1.9 Profit before taxation 93.4 31.5 61.9 96.2 14.8 81.4 Taxation 19.7 1.7 18.0 17.5 2.7 14.8 Profit for the period 73.7 29.8 43.9 78.7 12.1 66.6 Profit attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 76.4 27.4 49.0 78.2 10.7 67.5 Non-controlling interests 2.7 2.4 5.1 0.5 1.4 0.9 Profit for the period 73.7 29.8 43.9 78.7 12.1 66.6 Results for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reclassify results from discontinued operations not considered material as set out in note 2 d. Dominos Pizza Group plc 124 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 7.
ITEMS EXCLUDED FROM NON-GAAP MEASURES CONTINUED Non-underlying items during the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Included in other operating costs: UK supply chain transformation a 9.5 Accelerated amortisation of eCommerce platform b 2.9 Dolly Dimples integration costs c 4.5 4.3 Amortisation of London corporate stores d 1.0 0.2 Acquisition costs e 0.6 2.2 Legal costs and previously disposed operations f 0.2 0.2 Market access fee g 1.2 International impairments h 14.1 Put option revaluations i 3.7 Impairment of property, plant and equipment j 2.0 Reversionary scheme k 11.0 37.7 19.5 Included in share of post-tax profits of associates and joint ventures Germany store conversion costs l 3.2 0.7 Included in operating profit 40.9 20.2 Included in net gain on step acquisition of foreign operations 5.8 Included in other income Profit on disposal of joint venture m 8.2 Included in profit before interest and taxation 32.7 14.4 Included within net finance cost Put option revaluation i 0.3 0.4 Market access fee g 0.9 Included in profit before taxation 31.5 14.8 Taxation n 1.7 2.7 Total non-underlying items 29.8 12.1 a UK supply chain transformation In April of this year the Group opened a new supply chain centre in Warrington as part of a transformation of production and distribution in the UK & Ireland.
Costs of 9.5m include 6.4m of impairment charges for former manufacturing facilities, 1.9m of ramp up costs associated with the new facility and 1.2m of restructuring and exit costs.
The impairment and restructuring costs of the facilities and associated people costs are considered non-underlying because they have been driven solely as a consequence of the establishment of the new Warrington facility, making the Kingston and Penrith facilities redundant.
The costs are being incurred over a short time frame and are directly related to the Warrington investment.
The ramp up costs have been calculated based on an assessment of normal efficiency levels for the business.
If we didnt separately identify these costs then we would be distorting the operational performance of the supply chain, which is the key driver of profit for the business.
The separate treatment of ramp up costs has only been adopted during the commissioning period and rather than during the whole of the period to achieving full capacity.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 125 b Accelerated amortisation of eCommerce platform During the current year, the Group announced a significant investment in upgrading its mobile and web platforms.
These costs are ordinarily charged into the eCommerce fund and borne by franchisees, however as a result of the Groups decision to invest in the platform these costs are borne by the Group as a contribution into the eCommerce fund.
2.9m of accelerated amortisation has been recorded in the period representing the amortisation to date of the legacy platform on an accelerated basis.
Overall the Group will contribute an additional 7.0m into the platform in future years.
A commitment to provide this future contribution is expected to be made in H1 2019.
The contribution is a part of the wider 10m investment being made by DPG over FY18 and FY19.
All costs of the development of the eCommerce platform are ordinarily borne by the franchisees, and as such we consider our material and noncontractual support to the franchisees should be highlighted as a non-underlying item.
c Dolly Dimples integration costs Costs of 4.5m 2017: 4.3m have been recognised in relation to the Dolly Dimples stores in Norway, which are being converted to Dominos.
A number of stores have already rebranded to Dominos stores and the amount represents costs incurred with both the conversion of the stores into Dominos, dilapidations and onerous leases on remaining stores which will not be converted, together with integration costs associated with the acquisition.
Had these costs been identified at acquisition in May 2017, they would have been accounted for as a provision to convert and develop the stores over this period.
We have therefore deemed them to be nonunderlying.
d Amortisation of London corporate stores During the period amortisation of acquired intangibles of 1.0m 2017: 0.2m was incurred in relation to the SFA recognised on the acquisition of the London corporate stores and Have More Fun Limited.
This is considered to be non-underlying as the Group has a policy of franchise agreements having an indefinite life, however the SFA is deemed to be a re-acquired right under IFRS 3 which requires such rights to be amortised.
e Acquisition costs Acquisition costs in 2018 of 0.6m represent costs associated with the acquisition of Shorecal Ltd as set out in note 26 and the acquisition of Have More Fun Limited as set out in note 28.
Acquisition costs in 2017 of 2.2m relate to the acquisition of Pizza Pizza EHF and DP Norway AS and the subsequent hive out of PPS Foods AB.
The Groups accounting policy is to treat M&A costs as nonunderlying, so as not to distort annual operational performance with unevenly incurred transactional fees.
f Legal costs and previously disposed operations Legal costs of 0.2m recorded in 2018 represent costs associated with the liquidation of former operations in Germany and the legal advice on the reversionary share plan.
A net gain of nil 2017: 0.2m has been recorded in relation to previously disposed operations.
g Market access fee During the period a decrease has been recorded in the fair value of the Market Access Fee of 1.2m.
The decrease is a reflection of the underlying performance of the Daytona JV and further costs incurred in the Hallo Pizza acquisition.
The amount recorded in net finance costs of 0.9m represents the unwind of the discount of the fair value.
Further details around the valuation used are set out in note 26.
The impact of revaluations of the MAF are not considered to be ordinary trading for DPG.
In the event that we receive any material capital sum for a MAF on any business it would equally be treated as non-underlying.
h International impairments A total impairment of 14.1m has been recorded over the Groups operations in Norway 10.2m, Switzerland 1.2m and Sweden 2.7m.
For Norway, this consists of an impairment of goodwill of 5.3m, intangible assets of 2.7m and tangible assets of 2.2m.
For Switzerland, a net impairment has been recorded of 1.2m over the tangible assets and goodwill held.
For Sweden, this represents an impairment of goodwill of 2.7m.
For further details see note 14.
The non-cash impairments of these businesses are treated as exceptional because they are material reductions in value for the businesses concerned.
This is also consistent with the treatment of the gain on sale of the DP Shayban Limited as non-underlying.
i Put option revaluations A net cost of 3.4m has been recorded in relation to put options granted to minority interests over their remaining shareholdings in Norway and Sweden as set out in note 21.
This represents 3.7m of fair value movement recorded in other expenses and 0.3m of foreign exchange gains presented in net finance costs.
The increase in the fair value of the options is due to a change in valuation approach to value based on a sales collar present in the option agreements as opposed to an EBITDA multiple, given the expected future performance of the businesses.
The revaluations are treated as non-underlying because they are non-trading in nature and consistent with the other equity related revaluations, disposals and impairments in the business as above.
j Impairment of property, plant and equipment The impairment of property, plant and equipment recorded in 2017 relates to the impairment of assets no longer used for operating purposes.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 126 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 7.
ITEMS EXCLUDED FROM NON-GAAP MEASURES CONTINUED k Reversionary scheme A provision for employment taxes was recorded in 2017.
The related expense of 11.0m has been included in the compensation to current and former members of the senior management team and Board.
The amounts are presented gross and do not reflect future recoveries of the expense from certain members of the senior management team and Board.
See note 2 for further information.
l Germany store conversion costs Included in the share of post-tax profits losses of associates and joint ventures are acquisition and store network conversion costs of 3.2m which relate to the conversion of the Hallo Pizza stores acquired in Germany which were acquired by the Joint Venture JV in January 2018.
Costs recorded in 2017 of 0.7m represented the conversion costs of the original Joeys pizza stores.
The costs incurred by our JV partner on converting Hallo Pizza stores have been reported to us as non-underlying.
We consider the treatment to be consistent with the treatment we have adopted for Dolly Dimples stores in Norway.
m DP Shayban Limited disposal As set out in note 17, on 18 December 2018, the Group disposed of its 50% holding in DP Shayban Limited for the consideration of 11.4m, resulting in a gain on disposal of joint ventures and associates of 8.2m which has been presented in other income.
The profit on disposal of the investment in DP Shayban Limited has been treated as non-underlying as the gain is material and the trading of stores is not considered to be part of our ordinary course of business.
This contrasts with Change of Hands fees, which we consider to be ordinary income receivable to us as an intermediary when franchisees buy and sell stores.
n Taxation The tax credit of 1.7m relates to the non-underlying net loss before taxation of 31.5m and the effective tax rate of 5.4% is less than the statutory rate of 19% as not all of these costs will qualify for tax relief.
Taxation on the items considered to be exceptional is treated as non-underlying where it can be identified in order to ensure consistency of treatment with the item to which it relates.
The creation and revaluation of deferred tax assets are treated consistently with the treatment adopted when the asset was created.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND DIRECTORS REMUNERATION a Employee benefits expense 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Wages and salaries 69.7 53.3 Social security costs 5.9 16.3 Other pension costs 5.3 2.0 Share-based payment charge 1.0 1.7 81.9 73.3 Included within Social security costs are nil 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017: 11.0m of costs in respect of historic share based remuneration schemes, as further detailed in note 2.
For details of amounts relating to current and former Directors, refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on page 80.
The average monthly number of employees during the year of the Group including subsidiaries and excluding associates and joint ventures was made up as follows: 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 31 December 2017 30 December 2018 restated Administration 390 326 Production and distribution 540 459 Corporate stores 2,624 1,309 3,554 2,094 In 2017 we previously reported 1,749 employees as some part time employees had been excluded.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 127 b Directors remuneration 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Directors remuneration 1.6 1.9 Aggregate contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 0.1 0.1 Number of Directors accruing benefits under: defined contribution schemes 1 2 Additional information regarding Directors remuneration is included in the Directors remuneration report on pages 66 to 87.
FINANCE INCOME 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Other interest receivable 0.3 0.3 Interest on loans to associates and joint ventures 0.4 0.5 Discount unwind 0.9 Foreign exchange 0.5 1.0 Total finance income 2.1 1.8 The discount unwind relates to the unwind of the fair value of the Market Access Fee as described in note 26.
FINANCE COSTS 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Bank revolving credit facility interest payable 4.2 1.9 Other interest payable 0.2 Total finance costs 4.4 1.9 The finance expense relates to financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 128 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 11.
TAXATION a Tax on profit on ordinary activities 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Tax charged in the income statement Current income tax: UK corporation tax: current period 11.6 15.7 adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.6 0.5 11.0 15.2 Income tax on overseas operations 1.9 1.6 Total current income tax charge credit 12.9 16.8 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.9 2.2 Effect of change in tax rate 0.5 0.3 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.7 0.5 Total deferred tax 5.1 2.0 Tax charge in the income statement 18.0 14.8 The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows: Income tax charge 18.0 14.8 Tax relating to items credited charged to equity Reduction in current tax liability as a result of the exercise of share options 0.4 0.4 Origination and reversal of temporary differences in relation to unexercised share options 0.7 0.1 Tax credit charge in the Group statement of changes in equity 0.3 0.5 There is no tax impact in relation to the foreign exchange differences in the statement of comprehensive income.
The deferred tax charge of 5.1m include a 4.1m charge arising from the write-off of a deferred tax asset previously recognised in relation to the Groups leasing subsidiary, Dominos Leasing Limited and a 3.1m charge arising from the write-off of deferred tax assets previously recognised for tax losses in Norway 2.0m and Switzerland 1.1m.
The current period income tax charge for the UK of 11.6m is net of a 4.1m credit relating to additional tax relief from Dominos Leasing Limited reducing the UK corporation tax charge from 15.7m thereby reducing the Groups cash tax payments.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 129 b Reconciliation of the total tax charge The tax charge in the income statement for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 is higher 2017: higher than the statutory corporation tax rate of 19.0% 2017: 19.26%.
The differences are reconciled below: 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Profit before taxation 61.9 81.4 Accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 19.0% 2017: 19.26% 11.8 15.7 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3.1 1.0 Gain on joint venture sale income not taxable 1.8 1.4 Share of joint venture and associates results not taxable 0.3 0.6 Accounting depreciation not eligible for tax purposes 1.3 0.3 Adjustments relating to prior years 0.3 Overseas losses carried forward not recognised 4.1 0.1 Other 0.6 0.4 Tax rate differences 0.1 0.7 Total tax charge reported in the income statement 18.0 14.8 Effective tax rate % 29.0 18.2 Underlying effective tax rate % 21.2 18.3 The derecognition of deferred tax assets previously recognised in relation to tax losses arising in Norway and Switzerland has increased the Groups tax charge and its effective tax rate.
2 Act 2015 introduced legislation reducing the rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020.
The Finance Act 2016, which received Royal Assent on 15 September 2016 further reduced the corporation tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020.
These rates, including the further reduction in the future from 19% to 17%, have been used in the calculation of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the period ended 30 December 2018 and the prior year.
c Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 30 December 2018, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2017: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the Groups subsidiaries, or its associates, as there are no corporation tax consequences of the Groups UK, Irish or overseas subsidiaries or associates paying dividends to their parent companies.
There are also no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 130 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 11.
TAXATION CONTINUED d Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items 1.4 6.2 Deferred tax arising in the UK and ROI on capital gains 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax arising on other overseas subsidiaries 0.1 0.4 Deferred tax arising on overseas losses 0.6 3.3 Deferred tax arising on business combinations and acquired assets 7.7 8.5 Deferred tax 5.9 0.5 Represented as: Deferred tax asset 0.6 8.3 Deferred tax liabilities 6.5 7.8 5.9 0.5 At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Gross movement in the deferred income tax account Opening balance 0.5 5.7 Liability at acquisition of subsidiaries 0.6 7.0 Tax credit charge to equity 0.7 0.1 Income statement credit charge 5.1 2.0 Foreign exchange movements 0.3 Closing balance 5.9 0.5 As noted above, the deferred tax charge of 5.1m includes 4.1m relating to the cessation of trade for the Groups leasing subsidiary Dominos Leasing Limited.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 131 Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items Accelerated Share-based capital Lease Reversionary payments allowances inducements Provisions interests Total m m m m m m At 25 December 2016 1.8 3.0 0.2 0.4 5.4 Asset at acquisition of subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Credit to equity 0.1 0.1 Credit charge to income 0.2 1.4 0.1 0.2 1.9 0.4 At 31 December 2017 2.1 1.6 0.1 0.5 1.9 6.2 Liability at acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Charge to equity 0.7 0.7 Credit charge to income 0.1 4.0 0.1 4.0 At 30 December 2018 1.5 2.5 0.1 0.4 1.9 1.4 A deferred tax asset of 1.4m 2017: 6.2m has been recognised to the extent that future taxable profits are expected to be in excess of the profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
The Group has tax losses of 14.3m 2017: 12.4m which arose in relation to the Swiss business and may be available to offset against future taxable profits in Switzerland.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised 2017: 1.1m in relation to these taxable losses in Switzerland on the basis they may not be recovered before they expire.
The Group has tax losses of 19.9m 2017: 8.6m which arose in relation to the Norwegian business and may be available to offset against future taxable profits in Norway.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised 2017: 2.0m in relation to these taxable losses in Norway on the basis they may not be recovered in the foreseeable future.
The Group has tax losses of 2.8m 2017: 1.0m which arose in relation to the Swedish business and may be available to offset against future taxable profits in Sweden.
A deferred tax asset of 0.6m 2017: 0.2m has been recognised in relation to these taxable losses in Sweden on the basis they are expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary shares that would have been issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares into Ordinary shares.
Earnings 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 Notes m m Profit attributable to owners of the parent 49.0 67.5 Non-underlying items: Included in other operating costs 7 37.7 19.5 Amounts included within share of post-tax result of associates and joint ventures 7 3.2 0.7 Net gain on step acquisition of foreign operations 7 5.8 Other income 7 8.2 Net finance costs income 7 1.2 0.4 Tax 7 1.7 2.7 Attributable to non-controlling interests 2.4 1.4 Underlying profit attributable to owners of the parent 76.4 78.2 Results for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reclassify results from discontinued operations not considered material as set out in note 2 d. Dominos Pizza Group plc 132 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 12.
EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED Weighted average number of shares At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Number Number Basic weighted average number of shares excluding treasury shares 474,381,014 489,375,873 Dilutive effect of share options and awards 4,930,504 6,690,858 Diluted weighted average number of shares 479,311,518 496,066,731 The performance conditions relating to share options granted over 3,955,660 shares 2017: 2,041,160 have not been met in the current financial period and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the period end has not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation.
There are no share options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because they would be antidilutive 2017: nil.
See note 29 for further information on reversionary interests and share options.
Earnings per share 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 Basic earnings per share 10.3p 13.8p Diluted earnings per share 10.2p 13.6p Underlying earnings per share: Basic earnings per share 16.1p 16.0p Diluted earnings per share 15.9p 15.8p 13.
DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Declared and paid during the year: Equity dividends on Ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2017: 5.25p 2016: 4.50p 25.2 22.0 Interim dividend for 2018: 4.05p 2017: 3.75p 19.1 18.4 Dividends paid 44.3 40.4 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM not recognised as a liability at 30 December 2018 or 31 December 2017 Final dividend for 2018: 5.45p 2017: 5.25p 25.0 25.2 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 133 14.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill Franchise fees Software Other Total m m m m m Cost or valuation At 25 December 2016 1.9 4.3 24.5 0.5 31.2 Additions 6.4 0.3 6.7 Acquisitions 47.8 44.9 1.9 94.6 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Foreign exchange on translation 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2017 49.7 49.5 30.7 2.7 132.6 Additions 7.3 0.2 7.5 Acquisitions 4.6 2.8 7.4 Disposals Foreign exchange on translation 0.3 0.9 0.1 1.1 At 30 December 2018 54.0 51.4 38.1 2.9 146.4 Amortisation and impairment At 25 December 2016 1.6 11.2 0.2 13.0 Provided during the year 0.2 4.8 0.4 5.4 Disposals Foreign exchange on translation At 31 December 2017 1.8 16.0 0.6 18.4 Provided during the year 0.9 7.0 0.2 8.1 Impairment 10.0 2.4 0.8 13.2 Disposals Foreign exchange on translation At 30 December 2018 10.0 5.1 23.0 1.6 39.7 Net book value at 30 December 2018 44.0 46.3 15.1 1.3 106.7 Net book value at 31 December 2017 49.7 47.7 14.7 2.1 114.2 During the current and prior periods, the Group has made a number of acquisitions, recognising intangible assets at fair value and goodwill at cost.
Intangible assets recognised include the Master Franchise Agreements for Iceland, Norway and Sweden and the Standard Franchise Agreement for the London corporate stores.
The carrying amount of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles has been allocated as follows: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Goodwill Switzerland 1.8 Norway 5.3 Sweden 0.8 3.7 Iceland 12.1 12.4 UK corporate stores 31.1 26.5 44.0 49.7 Indefinite life intangibles Switzerland 2.7 2.7 Norway 7.8 10.2 Sweden 9.4 9.6 Iceland 21.1 22.1 41.0 44.6 85.0 94.3 Dominos Pizza Group plc 134 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 14.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED UK and international investments The Group is obliged to test goodwill and indefinite life intangibles annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill and indefinite life intangibles might be impaired.
In order to perform this test, management is required to compare the carrying value of the relevant cash generating unit CGU including the goodwill with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined as the higher of fair value less cost to sell or value in use.
In performing impairment reviews, management consider the different nature of the operations to determine the appropriate methodology to apply.
Impairment reviews performed over Sweden, Iceland and UK corporate stores goodwill An impairment review has been performed over the goodwill and intangible assets of the operations in Sweden, Iceland and the UK corporate stores.
The key assumptions for determining the recoverable amount are those regarding discount rates and expected changes to the level of sales in stores, control of costs and number of new store openings.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU.
Growth rates are based on market growth forecasts.
Changes in levels of Average Weekly Unit Sales AWUS are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial projections approved by management for the next five years and extrapolates terminal value cash flows based on the average long-term growth rates which do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant market.
The long-term growth rate and the rate used to discount the forecast cash flows from the CGUs are in the table below: Long-term growth rate Discount rate At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Sweden 1.5% 3.0% 14.7% 12.0% Iceland 1.4% 4.0% 11.4% 10.4% UK corporate stores 2.0% 1.5% 8.5% 9.0% The Group has also conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGU carrying value including reducing sales growth, changing discount rates, and, for Sweden, reducing store growth.
London Corporate Stores The forecast for the London corporate stores assumes no store openings over the forecast period and includes revenue growth assumptions of 5% over the first five years on a like for like basis.
Growth in future years is based on the long term growth rate of 2.0%.
The key sensitivity within the forecast is the ability to drive revenue growth through increased volumes and average ticket prices.
The impairment review indicates the valuation of the business is highly dependent on this future growth.
Due to the level of headroom in the valuation performed, we consider that a reasonably possible change could give risk to an impairment.
A decrease in LFL revenue growth of 1% in each year of the five year forecast would lead to an impairment of 2.0m.
Given the maturity of the business and the period since acquisition, we consider the forecasts used supportable and therefore, whilst remaining highly reliant on future growth, no impairment charge has been recorded.
Sweden The impairment review for Sweden has been based on a discounted cash flow, modelling fair value less cost to sell.
The forecast for Sweden assumes a high level of store openings over the forecast period between 7 and 14 each year, and a high level of LFL growth of between 9-10% over each year in the five year forecast period.
Given the market opportunity within Sweden, and the small nature of the current operations, we consider that the forecasts used are supportable.
The valuation remains highly dependent on both the LFL growth and ability to reach store opening targets.
For this reason, an increased discount rate of 14.7% has been used to account for this risk.
An impairment charge of 2.7m has been recorded over the goodwill of the business, reflecting the execution risk within the growth plan reflected in the discount rate.
We note that a reasonably possible change within one of these assumptions would lead to an increased impairment.
A decrease in LFL growth of 1% in each forecast year would lead to a further impairment of 4.3m being recorded.
A decrease in store openings across the most significant year of openings 2020, with 14 openings forecast of one store would lead to an additional impairment of 0.8m.
Iceland For the operations in Iceland, no reasonably possible change would give rise to an impairment charge.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 135 Impairment reviews performed over Norway and Switzerland For Norway and Switzerland, management have performed impairment reviews based on fair value less cost to sell.
The rationale for the use of this methodology is based on the historical performance of the businesses and, for Norway, reflects a more reliable forecasting basis given the historic control environment.
These models resulted in a value higher than the value in use.
The review has been performed using a multiple of AWUS for each store, based on recent European transactions for similar stores.
For each review, the average 12 months trailing AWUS as at December 2018 has been used, based on the corporate stores which were opened at that time.
Norway For Norway, the review performed indicates an impairment based on a multiple of 24x AWUS.
An impairment of 10.2m has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
This reduces the carrying value of goodwill to nil and the remaining impairment charge has been allocated over the intangible assets and tangible assets of the CGU.
A charge of 5.3m was recorded over goodwill, 2.7m charged to intangible assets and 2.2m charged to tangible assets.
A reduction in the AWUS multiple applied of 1x, to reduce to 23x, would lead to an additional impairment of 0.6m.
The review has also been performed over the investment and intercompany loans held in the PLC company-only balance sheet.
An impairment of 27.5m has been recorded, reducing the carrying value of the investment by 17.5m to nil and recording a provision against a group receivable owed to the PLC company-only of 10.0m.
Switzerland For Switzerland, the review performed indicates an impairment based on a multiple of 24x AWUS.
A net impairment of 1.2m has been recorded over the goodwill and intangible assets of the operation.
This reduces the carrying value of goodwill to nil.
A reduction in the AWUS multiple applied of 1x would lead to an additional impairment of 0.4m.
Master franchise fees Master franchise fees consist of costs relating to the MFA for UK, Ireland, Switzerland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
Each MFA is treated as having an indefinite life.
They are tested annually for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
The Swiss, Norwegian, Swedish and Icelandic MFAs have been tested as described in the goodwill section.
The UK and Ireland assumptions are not disclosed as the carrying value is not material.
Standard franchise agreement The Standard Franchise Agreement SFA has been recognised at fair value on acquisition of London corporate stores and Have More Fun London Limited.
As a reacquired asset, this has been calculated over the remaining contractual term, and will be amortised over that period.
These are tested for impairment as part of the analysis above.
The amortisation of intangible assets is included within administration expenses in the income statement.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 136 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 15.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Supply Chain Freehold land Assets under Leasehold Fixtures and Centre Store and buildings construction improvements fittings equipment equipment Total m m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 25 December 2016 34.4 8.5 7.0 5.2 36.4 1.3 92.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 28 0.1 1.0 0.3 10.4 11.8 Additions 28.9 0.8 1.4 2.7 4.3 38.1 Disposals 2.7 6.6 9.3 Transfer to assets held for sale 1.2 1.2 Foreign exchange on translation 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.3 0.5 At 31 December 2017 34.5 36.3 7.5 4.9 32.8 15.7 131.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 28 0.1 0.6 0.7 Additions 0.1 4.6 2.0 2.2 1.5 6.4 16.8 Disposals 0.2 0.2 0.4 Transfer between classes of asset 20.6 37.6 0.4 16.6 Foreign exchange on translation 0.6 0.1 0.5 At 30 December 2018 55.2 3.3 10.0 7.3 50.9 22.6 149.3 Depreciation and impairment At 25 December 2016 6.2 1.3 3.7 13.2 0.6 25.0 Provided during the year 0.6 0.9 1.8 1.9 3.8 9.0 Impairment 1.2 0.8 2.0 Disposals 2.6 6.2 8.8 Transfer to asset held for sale 1.2 1.2 Foreign exchange on translation 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2017 6.8 2.9 2.8 9.0 4.3 25.8 Provided during the year 0.7 0.9 2.0 2.8 2.0 8.4 Impairment 1.5 0.8 4.7 2.1 7.5 Disposals 0.1 0.2 0.3 Transfer to asset held for sale Foreign exchange on translation 0.2 0.1 0.3 At 30 December 2018 9.0 3.1 4.7 16.5 8.4 41.7 Net book value at 30 December 2018 46.2 3.3 6.9 2.6 34.4 14.2 107.6 Net book value at 31 December 2017 27.7 36.3 4.6 2.1 23.8 11.4 105.9 The classification of asset groups has been expanded to include a category for store equipment, the prior year has been restated to reflect this change.
During the current period the Group acquired a number of London corporate stores, recognising assets at fair value mainly comprising store fixtures and fittings.
During the current period, assets under construction amounting to 37.6m relating to the Warrington site were moved into freehold land and buildings, fixtures and fittings and Supply Chain Centre equipment following the opening of the site.
Additions in the year relate most significantly to the purchase of equipment for use in new stores and refitting existing stores, across the London corporate stores and the Nordic markets.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 137 Freehold land and buildings Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of 7.2m 2017: 4.7m in respect of land which is not depreciated.
Capitalised financing costs The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the period ended 30 December 2018 was 0.1m 2017: 0.2m.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 1%.
For details of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for liabilities see note 21.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Included in non-current assets: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 19.3 13.1 Loans to franchisees 3.7 3.0 Prepaid operating lease charges 5.5 3.5 Net investment in finance leases 0.3 0.5 Other receivables 10.6 9.1 39.4 29.2 Financial assets at amortised cost.
Included in non-current other receivables are rent-free balances provided to franchises of 9.4m 2017: 9.0m.
Included in current assets: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Trade receivables 18.3 13.5 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 1.3 1.9 Loans to franchisees 0.3 0.2 Other receivables 5.2 9.8 Prepayments 9.7 10.8 Accrued income 12.8 8.6 NAF and eCommerce debtor 6.2 3.9 Net investment in finance leases 0.9 0.9 54.7 49.6 Financial assets at amortised cost.
Included in current other receivables are balances due from franchisees for development of new stores and refurbishment of existing stores of 2.0m 2017: 5.7m.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 138 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 16.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED NAF and eCommerce debtor The national advertising fund NAF debtor and eCommerce debtor balance of 6.2m 2017: 3.9m comprises the net of balances relating to: the NAF, which is a fund into which the franchisees contribute for purposes of marketing, advertising and other promotion: and an eCommerce fund into which the franchisees contribute to cover the research, development and operating costs of the Dominos website and mobile apps, as well as related credit card costs, such as merchant data handling costs and chargebacks.
The legal form defined by the standard franchise agreements SFAs is that the two funds are separate with no right of offset if there is a deficit.
Franchisees are presented with data which shows the respective surplus or deficit of each fund separately.
The Group has the right to increase the charges for either fund to recover any deficits on a prospective basis, and for that reason there is no concern over the recoverability of amounts.
Surpluses or deficits naturally arise because of timing differences between cash flows of the NAF and eCommerce expenditure and contributions received from the franchisees.
The commercial practice has been to combine the NAF and eCommerce fund and present any surplus or deficit on a net basis and this is the principle accepted by all parties because of the broad crossover between marketing and the website in promoting the Dominos brand.
As at 30 December 2018, the gross amounts of the NAF and eCommerce fund were as follows: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m NAF surplus 14.1 11.8 eCommerce fund deficit 20.3 15.7 Net NAF and eCommerce debtor 6.2 3.9 Total contributions made to the NAF and eCommerce fund during the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 were 50.0m 2017: 46.8m.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Sterling 10.5 10.5 Euro 0.6 0.8 Swiss Franc 0.4 Icelandic Krona 0.6 0.2 Norwegian Krone 6.6 1.0 Swedish Krona 0.6 18.3 13.5 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on seven to 28 day terms.
As at 30 December 2018, trade receivables at nominal value of 0.8m 2017: 0.4m were provided for based on our consideration of expected credit losses.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past Total due nor impaired 30 days 30 days m m m m At 30 December 2018 18.3 14.7 2.8 0.8 At 31 December 2017 13.5 11.4 0.2 1.9 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 139 Loans to franchisees Loans to franchisees are repayable within one to five years.
The loans are either interest free or bear interest on a quarterly basis at an average of 3.0% above LIBOR and are repaid in monthly or quarterly instalments.
There have been no historic write-offs of loans to franchisees and therefore the effective credit loss is effectively nil.
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Amounts owed by associates 20.3 14.0 Amounts owed by joint ventures 0.3 1.0 20.6 15.0 Included within the balance due from joint ventures and associates is a loan balance of 19.3m 2017: 13.2m due from Daytona JV Limited, trading balances of 1.0m 2017: 0.9m due from Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited and 0.3m due from Dominos Pizza West Country Limited 2017: 0.3m.
Under the terms of the loan agreement, the loan to Daytona JV Limited accrues interest at between 2.7% and 3.0% per annum and is payable quarterly in arrears.
The loan is repayable on 18 October 2025 or when the Group ceases to own shares in the associate.
An analysis is provided below of the movement in trading and loan balances with associates and joint ventures: Trading balance Loan balance Total m m m At 25 December 2016 2.3 12.4 14.7 Movement in trading balance 0.4 0.4 Movement in loan balance 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2017 1.9 13.1 15.0 Movement in trading balance 0.6 0.6 Movement in loan balance 6.2 6.2 At 30 December 2018 1.3 19.3 20.6 The movement in the trading balance is included within the increase in receivables in cash generated from operations in the cash flow statement.
Prepaid operating lease charges At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Balance at the beginning of the period 3.5 0.9 Additions 2.3 3.3 Amortisation 0.3 0.7 Balance at the end of the period 5.5 3.5 Analysed as follows: Non-current assets 5.5 3.5 5.5 3.5 Net investment in finance leases The balance shown in franchisee leasing consists of leases over store equipment granted to franchisees on terms of between one and five years bearing interest at fixed rates of an average of 1.0% 2017: 2.8%.
Future minimum payments receivable: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Not later than one year 0.9 0.9 After one year but not more than five years 0.3 0.5 1.2 1.4 Dominos Pizza Group plc 140 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 17.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES Joint ventures Associates m m Balance at 25 December 2016 6.3 52.5 Profit for the period 0.4 2.6 Dividends received 0.2 1.0 Deemed disposal on step acquisition 33.9 Foreign exchange movements 0.6 Balance at 31 December 2017 6.5 20.8 Reclassification 0.4 0.4 Underlying profit for the period 0.2 4.0 Non-underlying expense for the period 3.2 Dividends received 0.6 1.0 Investments in the period 5.8 Disposals in the period 2.8 Foreign exchange movements Balance at 30 December 2018 3.7 26.0 At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Share of post-tax profits losses of associates Full House Restaurant Holdings Limited 1.5 1.9 Daytona JV Limited 0.7 0.7 Pizza Pizza EHF Iceland 0.5 PPS Foods AS Sweden 0.1 DP Norway AS 0.3 0.8 2.7 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures DP Shayban Limited 0.1 0.3 Dominos Pizza West Country Limited 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.5 1.0 3.2 Details of joint ventures and associates are given in note 34.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 141 a Investment in associates The Group has a 49% interest in Full House Restaurant Holdings Limited Full House, a private company that manages pizza delivery stores in the UK.
The Group has a 33.3% investment in Daytona JV Limited Daytona, a UK incorporated company which owns the Master Franchise Agreement for Dominos Germany.
The Groups interest is subject to a put and call option.
Included in the consolidated financial statements are the following items that represent the Groups share of the assets, liabilities and profit of associates based in the UK: Full House Daytona 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Non-current assets 16.5 3.4 130.9 6.8 Current assets 3.1 16.2 12.8 94.0 Current liabilities 4.2 5.4 11.1 5.5 Non-current liabilities 6.2 5.2 80.9 59.0 Net assets 9.2 9.0 51.7 36.3 The Groups share of interest in associate undertakings net assets 4.5 4.4 17.1 12.1 Goodwill and transaction costs 2.3 2.3 2.1 2.0 Groups carrying amount of the investment 6.8 6.7 19.2 14.1 Revenue 46.7 44.4 67.6 39.9 Profit for the period 3.0 4.0 2.1 2.1 Groups share of underlying profit for the period 1.5 1.9 2.5 1.4 Groups share of non-underlying loss for the period 3.2 0.7 Groups share of profit for the period 1.5 1.9 0.7 0.7 The associates had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments at 30 December 2018 or at 31 December 2017.
The associates require the parents consent to distribute its profits.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 142 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 17.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES CONTINUED b Investment in joint ventures During the year the Group held two 50% UK joint ventures, with Dominos Pizza West Country Limited West Country and DP Shayban Limited DP Shayban.
West Country is accounted for as a joint venture using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements as the Group has joint control through voting rights and share ownership as well as being party to a joint venture agreement, which ensures that strategic, financial and operational decisions relating to the joint venture activities require the unanimous consent of the two joint venture partners.
On 18 December 2018, the Group disposed of its 50% holding in DP Shayban for the consideration of 11.4m, resulting in a gain on disposal of joint ventures and associates of 8.2m.
At 30 December 2018, consideration of 5.7m was recognised as a deferred income asset.
Summary financial information of the joint ventures based on their IFRS financial statements is set out below: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total m m m m m Summary of joint ventures balance sheets Current assets 3.0 3.0 2.2 3.3 5.5 Non-current assets 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 10.0 Current liabilities 1.3 1.3 1.6 1.8 3.4 Non-current liabilities Net assets 6.7 6.7 5.6 6.5 12.1 Groups share of interest in joint ventures net assets 3.3 3.3 2.7 3.3 6.0 Goodwill and transaction costs 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.5 Groups carrying amount of the investment 3.7 3.7 2.8 3.7 6.5 Within gross balance sheets: Cash and cash equivalents 2.3 2.3 1.1 2.5 1.4 Current financial liabilities 0.2 0.2 Non-current financial liabilities 52 weeks ended 31 December 2018 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total m m m m m m Summary of joint ventures statement of profit or loss Revenue 18.7 11.8 30.5 19.0 12.1 31.1 Profit after tax for the year 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.3 0.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.9 0.3 1.2 Groups share of profit for the year 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.5 Dividends received 0.6 0.6 0.2 0.2 Profit after tax for the year includes: Depreciation and amortisation 0.7 0.5 1.2 0.3 0.4 0.7 Interest income 0.1 0.1 Interest expense Income tax expense 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4 Represents results up until the date of disposal on 18 December 2018.
West Country had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 30 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
West Country cannot distribute their profits without the consent from the two venture partners.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 143 18.
INVENTORIES At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Raw materials 2.4 2.5 Finished goods and goods for sale 6.0 5.9 Total inventories at lower of cost or estimated net realisable value 8.4 8.4 Provisions against inventories were 0.8m 2017: 0.8m and amounts were written off against cost of sales of 2.1m 2017: 1.0m.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 24.8 29.0 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is 24.8m 2017: 29.0m.
Cash is denominated in the following currencies: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Sterling 15.3 18.5 Euro 4.4 5.5 Icelandic krona 0.1 1.6 Norwegian krone 3.3 1.8 Swiss franc 1.7 1.6 24.8 29.0 20.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Included in current liabilities: Trade payables 36.3 26.4 Other taxes and social security costs 8.1 5.3 Other payables 7.6 5.5 Accruals 41.6 49.2 Deferred income 6.8 8.1 100.4 94.5 Included in non-current liabilities: Deferred income 10.0 6.8 Other payables 0.7 0.9 10.7 7.7 Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities: trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on seven to 30-day terms: and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of six months.
Included within accruals are amounts relating to goods received and not yet invoiced of 8.4m 2017: 8.1m, amounts owed to franchisees in relation to web sales of 15.7m 2017: 14.1m, together with trading accruals, head office cost accruals, payroll accruals and royalty accruals throughout the Group.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 144 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 21.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Current Current instalments due on other loans 0.7 0.2 Current instalments due on finance leases 0.4 0.4 1.1 0.6 Put option liabilities 1.4 5.6 2.5 6.2 Share buyback obligation 15.8 18.3 18.3 24.5 Non-current Bank revolving facility 224.5 113.9 Non-current instalments due on other loans 2.5 3.7 Put option liabilities 10.4 34.7 237.4 152.3 Banking facilities At 30 December 2018 the Group had a total of 359.5m 2017: 359.5m of banking facilities, of which 131.7m 2017: 241.3m was undrawn.
Bank revolving facility The Group has a 350.0m multicurrency syndicated revolving credit facility with an original term of five years to 13 December 2022 which following a one-year extension arranged in November 2018 has been extended to 12 December 2023.
Fees of 0.5m were paid for this extension.
Arrangement fees of 3.0m 2017: 3.2m directly incurred in relation to the facility are included in the carrying values of the facility and are being amortised over the extended term of the facility.
Interest charged on the revolving credit facility ranges from 0.75% per annum above LIBOR or equivalent when the Groups leverage is less than 1:1 up to 1.85% per annum above LIBOR for leverage above 2.5:1.
A further utilisation fee is charged if over one-third utilised at 0.15% which rises to 0.30% of the outstanding loans if over two-thirds is drawn.
In addition, a commitment fee is calculated on undrawn amounts based on 35% of the current applicable margin.
The facility is secured by an unlimited cross guarantee between Dominos Pizza Group plc, DPG Holdings Limited, Dominos Pizza UK and Ireland Limited, DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited, DP Group Developments Limited, DP Cyco Switzerland Limited and Dominos Pizza GmbH.
An ancillary overdraft and pooling arrangement is in place with Barclays Bank Plc for 10.0m covering the Company, Dominos Pizza UK and Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, and DP Pizza Limited.
An ancillary overdraft is in place with Barclays Bank Plc for 5.0m for Dominos Pizza UK and Ireland Limited.
Interest is charged at the same margin as applicable to the revolving credit facility above bank base rate.
Other loans DP Norway AS has a five year amortising loan facility provided by Nordea Bank AB for NOK50m maturing in November 2022 with a final bullet repayment of NOK10.4m 0.9m and quarterly repayments of NOK2.1m 0.2m.
Interest is charged at 0.6% above NIBOR plus a yearly commission of 0.9%.
Interest is charged at 1.35% above NIBOR with quarterly commission of 0.15%.
DP Norway AS also has access to a NOK 4.0m 0.3m overdraft.
Both the overdraft and loan facility are guaranteed by the Company.
Share buyback obligation On 15 October 2018 the Group entered into an irrevocable non-discretionary programme with Numis Securities Limited to purchase up to a maximum of 25.0m of shares from 18 October 2018.
The remaining share buybacks outstanding at 30 December 2018 was recognised as a financial liability of 15.8m.
The full obligation had been utilised by 27 February 2019.
On 14 December 2017 the Group entered into an irrevocable non-discretionary programme with Numis Securities Limited to purchase up to a maximum of 20.0m of shares from 18 December 2017.
The remaining share buybacks outstanding at 31 December 2017 was recognised as a financial liability of 18.3m.
The full obligation had been met by 5 February 2018.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 145 Put option liabilities The Group has granted put options held by non-controlling interests over their remaining shareholdings of PPS Foods AB, DP Norway AS, Pizza Pizza EHF and Sell More Pizza Limited.
The gross amount attributed to the put options held by the non-controlling interests over the remaining shareholdings at 30 December 2018 was 11.8m 2017: 40.3m.
During the period, options over 44.3% of shares of Pizza Pizza EHF lapsed as the shares were purchased by the Group during the exercise period.
As a result of this acquisition, 26.3m of the put option liability was derecognised during the period.
In respect of the put options relating to PPS Foods AB, DP Norway AS, and Pizza Pizza EHF, the value of the financial liabilities is the discounted value of the gross liabilities for the put options based on the expected value of the consideration on exercise of the options.
The put option liability is based on a forecast sales multiple of the respective businesses during the exercise period.
The options are exercisable from 1 July 2019 until 30 June 2023.
During the period, the value of the options increased as the sales collar indicated a higher valuation than the previous fair value used based on the overall profitability of the business.
In respect of the put options relating to Sell More Pizza Limited arising on acquisition of London corporate stores on 5 October 2017, a liability at the present value of the gross amount of the put options was held by the non-controlling interests over the remaining shareholding amounting to 5.6m.
This option, which was exercisable at this value from six months up until 12 months after the acquisition date, was exercised and settled in full in October 2018.
DEFERRED AND CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION a Assets Deferred Contingent Total m m m At 31 December 2017 Acquisition of subsidiary 0.9 0.9 Disposal of joint venture 5.7 5.7 At 30 December 2018 6.6 6.6 b Liabilities Deferred Contingent Total m m m At 25 December 2016 1.1 1.1 Acquisition of subsidiary 3.6 3.6 Paid during the period 1.1 1.1 At 31 December 2017 3.6 3.6 Paid during the period 3.6 3.6 At 30 December 2018 At At 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Current 0.9 3.6 Non-current 5.7 6.6 3.6 On 5 October 2017, the Group acquired a controlling interest in Sheermans SS Limited, Sheermans Limited, Sheermans Harrow Limited and WAP Partners Limited on which deferred consideration was payable of 3.6m at 31 December 2017, and was subsequently paid in 2018.
On 6 August 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Hamandi Investments Limited now called Have More Fun London Limited, a franchisee that operates six Dominos stores in London.
At 30 December 2018 the Group held a 0.9m receivable balance, which is the net of a retention and a working capital adjustment.
On 18 December 2018, the Group disposed of its 50% holding of share capital in its joint venture DP Shayban Limited, on which deferred consideration is receivable of 5.7m in 2023.
This is not contingent on performance conditions.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 146 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 23.
OBLIGATIONS UNDER LEASES AND HIRE PURCHASE CONTRACTS For the stores in the UK & Ireland franchisee system, the Group has entered into commercial leases, taking the head lease and then subletting the properties to the franchisees.
These head leases have an average duration of between ten and 25 years.
Under the terms of the franchise agreement the franchisee is granted an initial period of ten years to operate a Dominos Pizza delivery store under the Dominos system.
Under the agreement, the franchisee also has the option to renew for a further 10 years at the end of the initial period provided at the time of the renewal the franchisee is not in default of any material provision of the franchise agreement.
The property lease agreements contain an option for renewal, with such options being exercisable three months before the expiry of the lease term at rentals based on market prices at the time of exercise.
During the current period, 100% of SFAs which reached the end of the initial 10 year period were renewed.
In addition the Group has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of plant, machinery and equipment.
These leases have an average duration of between three and five years.
Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Not later than one year 29.8 27.5 After one year but not more than five years 105.0 100.5 After five years 202.0 203.8 336.8 331.8 Operating lease rentals where the Group is lessor Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Not later than one year 22.0 21.6 After one year but not more than five years 72.7 71.8 After five years 126.5 118.0 221.2 211.4 24.
PROVISIONS Reversionary share Dilapidations Onerous lease plan provisions provisions provisions Other provisions Total m m m m m At 31 December 2017 11.0 2.2 2.8 1.8 17.8 Arising during the period 0.3 0.8 1.1 Utilised during the period 0.3 0.3 Released during the period 0.7 0.4 0.8 1.9 Impact of discounting 0.1 0.1 At 30 December 2018 11.0 1.5 2.5 1.8 16.8 At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Current 3.6 4.5 Non-current 13.2 13.3 16.8 17.8 Reversionary share plan provisions As discussed more fully in note 2, the employment tax provision relates to certain of the Groups historical share-based compensation arrangements dating from 2003-2010.
As a result of the updated legal advice received a provision was recorded during the period ended 31 December 2017 amounting to 11.0m, comprising 2.6m employers NIC, and 8.4m employees NIC and PAYE at that date.
Within this an estimate of interest on overdue tax of 3.3m was provided.
These provisions have been maintained as at 30 December 2018 pending agreement with the tax authorities.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 147 No contingent asset has been recognised in the financial statements in relation to the indemnities provided by the beneficiaries of the arrangements.
The timing of the utilisation of the provision is uncertain, as discussed more fully in note 2.
Dilapidations provisions On acquisition of the Nordic entities and the London corporate stores, the Group acquired dilapidations provisions which were recognised at fair value.
During the period, 0.7m of these provisions were released as the store conversion programme continued.
Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to the outstanding rent obligation for properties in the UK, the ROI, Germany and Norway.
These properties include sublets to commercial tenants, properties for which a lease has been signed but no franchisee has been identified to operate the store such that the lease obligation has become onerous, along with stores for which the tenant is paying reduced rent and the Group expects to make a loss in relation to the lease.
The provision will be utilised over the remaining lease term on the properties identified which range between one and 23 years.
Provisions recognised on acquisition of Dolly Dimples in the prior year were recorded at fair value.
Other provisions Other provisions include 0.7m for commercial disputes in the Nordics and a further 0.6m for closure costs of DP Germany.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups financial risk management objectives consist of identifying and monitoring risks which might have an adverse impact on the value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, reported profitability or cash flows.
The main risks are foreign currency risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade receivables and cash, which arise directly from its operations.
The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise share buyback obligations, bank revolving facilities, other loans and finance leases.
The Group has not entered into any derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps or financial foreign currency contracts.
The Groups Treasury Policy allows it to trade in derivatives to manage interest rate, commodity and foreign exchange risk.
Foreign currency risk The Group has invested in operations in Iceland, Norway, Ireland, Sweden and Switzerland and also buys and sells goods and services in currencies other than sterling.
The Group has also invested in an associate in Germany and an investment in Ireland.
As a result, the value of the Groups non-functional currency revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in exchange rates.
The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of its currency exposures by agreeing fixed currency contracts with franchisees and suppliers wherever possible.
The Group does not use derivatives to hedge balance sheet and profit and loss translation exposures arising on the consolidation of overseas subsidiaries.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in sterling against the Euro, Icelandic Krona, Norwegian Krone, Swedish Krona and Swiss Franc exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
The impact on the Groups profit before tax is due to changes in the carrying value of currency-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a sterling functional currency and sterling-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a non-sterling functional currency.
The impact on the Groups pre-tax equity is due to changes in carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is immaterial.
Effect on profit Effect on before tax pre-tax equity Change in EUR rate m m 2018 25% 5.1 3.8 -25% 8.6 6.4 2017 25% 1.8 2.8 -25% 2.9 4.7 Effect on profit Effect on before tax pre-tax equity Change in NOK rate m m 2018 25% 1.3 -25% 2.1 2017 25% 0.6 -25% 1.1 Dominos Pizza Group plc 148 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 25.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED Foreign currency risk continued Effect on profit Effect on before tax pre-tax equity Change in SEK rate m m 2018 25% 0.7 -25% 1.1 2017 25% 0.5 -25% 0.8 Effect on profit Effect on before tax pre-tax equity Change in ISK rate m m 2018 25% 0.4 -25% 0.7 2017 25% 5.8 -25% 9.7 Credit risk Customers who trade on credit terms and obtain finance leasing and loans from the Group are predominantly franchisees and it is considered that the franchisee selection process is sufficiently robust to ensure an appropriate credit verification procedure.
In addition, trade receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
Since the Group trades only with franchisees that have been subject to the franchisee selection process and provide guarantees as required under the franchisee agreements, there is no requirement for collateral.
It is Group policy that cash deposits are only made with banks that have been approved by the Board and have a high credit rating in accordance with the Groups treasury policy to ensure that the Group is not exposed to unnecessary risk.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meets its obligations as they fall due.
To manage liquidity risk, each operating area prepares short-term, medium-term and long-term cash flow forecasts which are regularly reviewed and challenged.
These forecasts are consolidated centrally to ensure the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet it liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions without risking damage to the Groups reputation.
All major investment decisions are considered by the Board as part of the project appraisal and approval process.
The Group has access to a 350.0m syndicated revolving credit facility which matures in December 2023 with an option of a further one-year extension.
The Group also has access to Sterling, Euro and Norwegian Krone overdrafts which were undrawn at 30 December 2018.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 149 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 30 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Less than 3 to 12 On demand 3 months months 1 to 5 years Total m m m m m Period ended 30 December 2018 Floating rate borrowings Bank revolving facility 224.5 224.5 Other loans 0.1 0.6 2.5 3.2 Fixed rate borrowings Finance leases 0.4 0.4 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 93.5 0.1 0.7 94.3 Contingent consideration Put option liabilities 1.4 10.4 11.8 Share buyback obligation 15.8 15.8 109.4 2.1 238.5 350.0 Less than 3 to 12 On demand 3 months months 1 to 5 years Total m m m m m Period ended 31 December 2017 Floating rate borrowings Bank revolving facility 113.9 113.9 Other loans 0.2 3.7 3.9 Fixed rate borrowings Finance leases 0.1 0.3 0.4 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 85.7 0.7 0.9 87.3 Contingent consideration 3.6 3.6 Put option liabilities 5.6 34.7 40.3 Share buyback obligation 18.3 18.3 107.7 6.8 153.2 267.7 Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises predominately from its revolving credit facility.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
The Group undertakes sensitivity analysis prepared on a basis of constant net debt.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2018 would increase decrease by 1.0m 2017: increase decrease by 0.5m.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
There would be no impact on other comprehensive income.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 150 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 25.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it retains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group seeks to maintain a ratio of debt to equity that balances risks and returns and also complies with lending covenants.
The Group manages its capital structure and adjusts it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 30 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
At the AGM on 19 April 2018, a special resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of its Ordinary shares.
The Groups financing is subject to financial covenants.
These covenants relate to measurement of adjusted EBITDAR against consolidated net finance charges interest cover and adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio measured semi-annually on an LTM basis at half year and year end.
The Group has complied with all these covenants.
At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m m Other loans 3.2 3.9 Finance leases 0.4 0.4 Bank revolving facilities 224.5 113.9 Less: cash and cash equivalents 24.8 29.0 Net debt 203.3 89.2 Underlying EBITDA 109.8 108.5 Adjusted gearing ratio 1.85 0.8 For further commentary on cash flow, net debt and gearing see the strategic report.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements: Carrying value 2018 Carrying value 2017 Fair value 2018 Fair value 2017 m m m m Financial assets Other financial assets 8.9 9.0 8.9 9.0 Investments 11.1 11.1 Net investment in finance leases 1.2 1.2 Deferred and contingent consideration 6.6 6.6 Financial liabilities Bank revolving facilities 224.5 113.9 224.5 113.9 Other loans 3.2 3.9 3.2 3.9 Deferred and contingent consideration 3.6 3.6 Share buyback obligations 15.8 18.3 15.8 18.3 Put option liabilities 11.8 40.3 11.8 40.3 Finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 The fair value of the net investment in finance leases has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at the market interest rate.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at a market rate of interest.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 151 Management has determined that the fair values of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and share buyback obligations approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
The fair values of bank revolving facilities, fixed rate borrowings and finance lease liabilities are determined using a rate that reflects the entitys borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period.
The inputs used in these discounted cash flow calculations are at Level 2 in the hierarchy.
Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
IFRS 13 requires the classification of financial instruments measured at fair value to be determined by reference to the source of inputs used to derive fair value.
Other financial assets The contingent consideration of 25.0m 22.6m 2017: 25.0m 22.2m payable by Dominos Pizza Enterprises Limited referred to as the Market Access Fee in respect of Dominos Pizza Group plc divesting its interests in operating Dominos Pizza stores in Germany and its exclusive access to the German market, previously held through its shareholding in DP Cyco Limited and which became payable from 2017, is carried at a fair value of 9.9m 8.9m 2017: 10.1m 9.0m within other financial assets.
The contingent consideration is payable by instalments from 2017, the payment of each instalment being determined by reference to the German business achieving defined levels of EBITDA.
As at 30 December 2018, no payments are due.
The inputs used to calculate the fair value of the Market Access Fee fall within Level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
Level 3 fair value measurements use unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The fair value of the other financial asset recognised is calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the appropriate discount rate for the German associated Company.
The payments are calculated applying an income approach valuation methodology, considering different scenarios of projected EBITDA, weighted by the probability of each scenario.
The fair value is based on a midpoint in the range of probable fair value outcomes of 9.8m to 10.0m based on a range of EBITDA forecasts.
Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuation: Significant unobservable inputs Range Sensitivity of the input to the fair value WACC 7.5% to 8.5% 1.0% increase or decrease in the WACC would result in a decrease or increase in fair value of 0.3m.
The inputs used to calculate the fair value of the contingent consideration fall within Level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
The fair value of the deferred consideration asset of 6.6m 2017: 0m relates to sale of DP Shayban and expected working capital adjustments due on the Have More Fun corporate stores acquisition.
Investments In November 2018 the Group made a 15% investment in Shorecal Limited the Shorecal Investment, a private company registered in the Republic of Ireland that operates 27 Dominos franchise stores in Ireland with a cost of investment of 11.1m.
The equity investment has been designated as fair value through profit and loss.
The inputs used to calculate the fair value of the Shorecal Investment fall within Level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
The fair value of the Shorecal Investment at 30 December 2018 is deemed to be the cost of investment given it was acquired close to the year end.
As a result of the other investees taking a share of the investment, change of hands income of 750k was recognised by the Group underlying operating profit.
Put option liabilities The gross amount of the put options held by the non-controlling interests over the remaining shareholdings at 30 December 2018 amounted to 11.8m 2017: 40.3m and are disclosed in note 21.
The inputs used to calculate the fair value of the put options fall within Level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
These inputs include the expected performance of the business during the exercise period.
The value of the financial liabilities is the discounted value of the gross liabilities for the put options based on the expected value of the consideration on exercise of the options.
See note 7 for details of movement during the year.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 152 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 27.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital At 30 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Number Number At 31 December 2017 and 25 December 2016 486,834,530 2,535,591 498,673,494 2,597,252 Issued on exercise of share options 83,080 433 Share buybacks 18,327,800 95,457 7,849,454 40,883 Share cancellations 4,072,590 21,211 At 30 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 468,506,730 2,440,134 486,834,530 2,535,591 During the year the Company bought back a total of 18,327,800 Ordinary shares of 25 48p each for a total value of 59.2m including costs of 0.4m, which were cancelled.
The average price for which these shares were purchased was 323.2p.
Since 31 December 2018 the Company bought back a further 6,276,657 Ordinary shares of 25 48p each for a total value of 15.8m including costs of less than 0.1m.
The average price for which these shares were purchased was 252.6p.
The number of shares allotted, called up and fully paid has reduced to 462,230,073.
During the 53 week period ended 31 December 2017 83,080 Ordinary shares of 25 48p each with a nominal value of 433 were issued between 323.7p and 390.1p for a total cash consideration received of 0.7m to satisfy the share options that were exercised.
During the 53 week period ended 31 December 2017 the Company bought back a total of 10,789,454 Ordinary shares of 25 48p each for a total value of 36.6m including costs of 0.2m.
Of these shares, 7,849,454 were cancelled and 2,940,000 were bought back and held as treasury shares.
The average price for which these shares were purchased was 339.2p.
The Company also cancelled 4,072,590 shares that were held as treasury shares at the start of the year.
Nature and purpose of reserves Share capital Share capital comprises the nominal value of the Companys Ordinary shares of 25 48p each.
Share premium The share premium reserve is the premium paid on the Companys 25 48p Ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve includes the nominal value of shares bought back by the Company.
Capital reserve own shares This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed EBT Employee Benefit Trust and shares held by the Company as treasury shares.
The shares held by the EBT were purchased in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options and potential awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and other incentive schemes.
During the period the Company acquired 1,350,000 of its own shares 2017: 2,940,000.
At 30 December 2018 the Company held 2,127,080 2017: 2,114,550 of its own shares in the EBT which had a historic cost of 6.3m 2017: 6.5m.
These shares had a market value at 30 December 2018 of 4.6m 2017: 6.7m.
The EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends.
During the year the Group impaired treasury shares by 3.3m 2017: 2.8m on issue of shares at a price lower than historic cost.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 153 Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
Other reserve The other reserve relates to the gross liability for put options held by non-controlling interests that the Group is contractually obliged to meet when exercised.
28. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS A 2018 Acquisitions Pizza Pizza EHF On 15 January 2018, the Group acquired a further 44.3% of Pizza Pizza EHF for consideration of ISK3.7bn 26.8m, increasing the proportion of voting rights and share capital to 95.3%.
As a result of this acquisition, 26.3m of the put option liability was derecognised.
The non-controlling interest in Pizza Pizza EHF was adjusted by a 10.0m debit and the Other reserve relating to the initially recognised put options was adjusted by a 9.5m credit.
The 0.5m variance between these amounts was realisation of the foreign exchange movements on the initial liability in the income statement.
For further information refer to the statement of changes in equity.
Acquisition of Have More Fun London Limited formerly Hamandi Investments Limited On 6 August 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Hamandi Investments Limited, a franchisee operating six Dominos stores in London.
Subsequent to acquisition, the company was renamed Have More Fun London Limited Have More Fun.
Deferred consideration is a working capital adjustment payable in March 2019.
The acquisition balance sheet, shown below, was adjusted to reflect the provisional fair value adjustments.
Adjustments to the completion balance sheet primarily relate to recognition of intangible assets for the SFA and of necessary provisions.
The SFA was valued using the multi-period excess earnings method income approach taking into account forecast revenue and EBITDA margin and a discount rate applied.
Adjustments to taxes relate to deferred tax on the fair value adjustments.
The goodwill recognised above includes certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired business, the skills and experience of the assembled workforce and the future growth opportunities the business provides to the Groups operations.
The goodwill recognised is not deductible for tax purposes.
Have More Fun contributed 0.1m to operating profit from the acquisition date to 30 December 2018.
If the acquisition of Have More Fun had taken place on 31 December 2017, the Group underlying operating profit for the period ending 30 December 2018 would have been 97.6m and revenue would have been 540.7m.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 154 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 28. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED Have More Fun Total m Consideration transferred Cash 7.2 Deferred consideration 0.9 Non-cash consideration Total 6.3 Fair value of net assets acquired provisional Property, plant and equipment 0.7 Intangible assets 2.8 Inventories Trade and other receivables 0.1 Deferred tax assets Assets held for sale Cash and cash equivalents Total assets acquired 3.6 Trade and other payables 1.0 Loans 0.3 Provisions Deferred tax liabilities 0.6 Total liabilities acquired 1.9 Net identifiable assets acquired at fair value 1.7 Goodwill arising on acquisition Consideration transferred 6.3 Transfer of equity at acquisition Non-controlling interests Fair value of net assets acquired provisional 1.7 Goodwill 4.6 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 155 B 2017 Acquisitions The acquisitions in the prior period have been accounted for as business combinations.
For the business combinations in the prior period no measurement period adjustments were made in the current period to the acquisition balance sheets shown below.
Transaction costs relating to the acquisitions detailed in this section are detailed in note 7.
53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 Dominos Dominos Norway Dolly Dimples London Corporate Iceland and Sweden Norway Stores Total m m m m m Consideration transferred Cash 1.3 13.7 5.7 24.4 45.1 Deferred consideration 3.6 3.6 Non-cash consideration 5.6 5.6 Total 1.3 13.7 5.7 33.6 54.3 Fair value of net assets acquired Property, plant and equipment 4.7 3.4 1.3 1.1 10.5 Intangible assets 22.1 18.7 1.7 4.5 47.0 Inventories 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.1 1.3 Trade and other receivables 4.1 0.8 1.1 1.3 7.3 Deferred tax assets 1.2 1.4 2.6 Assets held for sale 0.2 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 14.7 0.9 3.1 4.9 23.6 Total assets acquired 46.2 25.6 8.8 11.9 92.5 Trade and other payables 4.7 2.9 2.9 4.3 14.8 Loans 1.6 2.7 4.3 Provisions 2.3 2.3 Deferred tax liabilities 4.4 4.3 0.4 0.5 9.6 Total liabilities acquired 10.7 9.9 5.6 4.8 31.0 Net identifiable assets acquired at fair value 35.5 15.7 3.2 7.1 61.5 Goodwill arising on acquisition Consideration transferred 1.3 13.7 5.7 33.6 54.3 Transfer of equity at acquisition 29.2 3.8 33.0 Non-controlling interests 17.4 4.6 22.0 Fair value of net assets acquired 35.5 15.7 3.2 7.1 61.5 Goodwill 12.4 6.4 2.5 26.5 47.8 Dominos Pizza Group plc 156 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 28. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED B 2017 Acquisitions continued Acquisition of Dominos Iceland On 19 April 2017 the Group acquired 2% of the share capital of its associated undertaking Pizza Pizza EHF, taking the Groups shareholding to 51% and in doing so gaining control of the Icelandic-based Dominos master franchise holder.
The acquisition balance sheet was adjusted to reflect provisional fair value adjustments.
Adjustments to the completion balance sheet primarily relate to intangible assets of the MFA acquired with Pizza Pizza EHF and recognition of necessary provisions.
The MFA has been valued using the multi-period excess earnings method income approach taking into account forecast revenue and EBITDA margin and a discount rate applied.
Adjustments to taxes relate to additional tax provisions and deferred tax on the fair value adjustments.
Non-controlling interests have been valued as a proportion of identifiable net assets.
Pizza Pizza EHF contributed 2.7m to operating profit from the acquisition date to 31 December 2017.
If the acquisition of Pizza Pizza EHF had taken place on 26 December 2016, the Group underlying operating profit for the period ending 31 December 2017 would have been 96.5m and revenue for continuing operations would have been 487.3m.
Acquisition of Dominos Norway and Sweden On 19 April 2017 the Group acquired an additional 51% of the share capital of its associated undertaking DP Norway AS DPN, formerly Pizza Pizza Norway AS, taking the Groups shareholding to 71% and in doing so gaining control of the Norway and Swedenbased Dominos master franchise holder.
This allowed access to two fast growing markets and facilitated the subsequent acquisition of Dolly Dimples Norges AS.
Adjustments to the completion balance sheet primarily relate to intangible assets of the MFA acquired with DPN for Norway and Sweden and recognition of necessary provisions.
The MFA has been valued using a cost approach taking into account forecast revenue and a discount rate applied.
DPN contributed an operating loss of 6.2m from the acquisition date to 31 December 2017.
If the acquisition of DPN had taken place on 26 December 2016, the Group underlying operating profit for the period ending 31 December 2017 would have been 95.2m and revenue for continuing operations would have been 478.8m.
Acquisition of Dolly Dimples On 2 May 2017 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Dolly Dimples, a leading Norway-based pizza chain operator with 42 stores.
The stores will be converted to Dominos stores and provide scale to the operations in Norway.
Adjustments to the completion balance sheet primarily relate to intangible assets of the store franchise network and brand acquired with Dolly Dimples, revaluation of property, plant and equipment in accordance with IFRS 13 and recognition of provisions relating to out of market leases and other necessary provisions.
The store franchise network has been valued using the multi-period excess earnings method income approach taking into account forecast revenue and EBITDA margin and a discount rate applied.
The brand has been valued using the cost approach.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 157 The goodwill recognised above includes certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
Dolly Dimples contributed an operating loss of 1.4m to operating profit from the acquisition date to 31 December 2017.
If the acquisition of Dolly Dimples had taken place on 26 December 2016, the Group underlying operating profit for the period ending 31 December 2017 would have been 95.1m and revenue for continuing operations would have been 480.8m.
Transfer of Dominos Sweden On 27 April 2017 the shares of the Group subsidiary PPS Foods AB, the Sweden-based Dominos master franchise holder, were transferred at market value from DPN to the shareholders of DPN in proportion of existing shareholding.
This resulted in an additional payment of 1.7m from the non-controlling interests, which was accounted for in equity during the period ended 31 December 2017.
The Group therefore retains control and the same ownership interest in the Company after the transfer in proportion to existing shareholdings.
Acquisition of London corporate stores in 2017 On 5 October 2017 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Sheermans SS Limited, Sheermans Harrow Limited and WAP Partners Limited, a franchisee group that operates 25 Dominos stores in London.
The acquiring Company, Sell More Pizza Limited, is 25% owned by the former majority shareholder in each of the subsidiaries acquired with a non-cash contribution of 5.6m for the shares.
The acquisition provides access to the West London area through the Standard Franchise Agreement SFA, and the growth opportunities available in this market.
Deferred consideration of 3.6m was paid January 2018.
The acquisition balance sheet was adjusted to reflect the provisional fair value adjustments.
The London corporate stores have contributed 0.4m to operating profit from the acquisition date to 31 December 2017.
If the acquisition of the London corporate stores had taken place on 26 December 2016, the Group underlying operating profit for the period ending 31 December 2017 would have been 98.2m and revenue for continuing operations would have been 488.2m.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 was 0.9m 2017: 1.7m.
This all arises on equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 LTIP At the 2012 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance shares.
Awards are approved and granted at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee to Senior Executives and other employees.
Awards are capable of vesting within a three-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled.
At 30 December 2018, there were 2012 LTIP awards over 4,054,251 2017: 4,072,373 shares in Dominos Pizza Group plc.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 30 December 2018 was 1.4 years 2017: 1.4 years.
The weighted average share price for options exercised was 275.19p 2017: 281.9p.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 158 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 29.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan 2016 LTIP At the 2016 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance shares.
Awards are capable of vesting within a three to five-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled.
During the period no awards were granted 2017: nil.
At 30 December 2018, there were 2016 LTIP awards over 1,602,000 2017: 1,602,000 shares in Dominos Pizza Group plc.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 30 December 2018 was 1.3 years 2017: 2.3 years.
There were no options exercised during 2018 2017: nil.
The fair value of options granted is estimated at the date of grant using Stochastic and Black-Scholes models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which they were granted.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is generated for the Company and the comparator group at the end of the three-year performance period.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the options is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the period ended 30 December 2018: 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 Weighted average fair value 190.35p Weighted average share price 285.58p Weighted average exercise price 0.00p Expected dividend yield 3.27% Risk-free rates 0.77% Expected volatility 28.6% Further information on the Companys 2012 and 2016 LTIP awards is given in the Executive Director policy table on pages 82 to 84 of the Directors remuneration report.
Employee share options On 23 March 2004, the Company established the Dominos Pizza Group plc Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme EMI Scheme.
All employees are eligible for grants of options under this scheme, which is approved by the Board.
Prior to 2011, the options vested over a three-year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that the growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share during each of the three years following the date of grant exceeds growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 3%.
For 2011 and 2012 the options vest over a three-year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that real growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share, during each of the three years following the date of grant, exceeds 3%.
The options lapse after 10 years or in certain other circumstances connected with leaving the Company.
There are no cash settlement alternatives and all awards are equity settled.
No options were granted during the period ended 30 December 2018 2017: nil.
Sharesave scheme During 2009 the Group introduced a Sharesave scheme giving employees the option to acquire shares in the Company at a 20% discount.
Employees have the option to save an amount per month up to a maximum of 500 and at the end of three years they have the option to purchase shares in the Company or to take their savings in cash.
The contractual life of the scheme is three years.
The weighted average exercise price of outstanding options is 258.09p 2017: 240.3p.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 159 Share schemes As at 30 December 2018, the following share options and awards were outstanding: Exercisable Outstanding Granted Exercised Forfeited Outstanding at 30 at 31 during the during the during the at 30 December December period period period December 2018 Scheme Exercise price 2017 Number Number Number Number 2018 Number Number 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 0.00p to 43.16p 4,072,373 1,225,628 924,643 319,107 4,054,251 1,057,109 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan 1,602,000 1,602,000 Dominos Pizza Unapproved Scheme 69.67p to 70.0p 28,779 26,418 2,361 Dominos Pizza CSOP Unapproved Scheme 113.67p to 160.80p 47,613 3,534 44,079 44,079 Dominos Pizza CSOP Approved Scheme 68.50p to 160.80p 129,789 17,434 112,355 112,355 Sharesave Scheme 144.67p to 275.33p 1,142,384 609,350 365,286 248,854 1,137,594 7,022,938 1,834,978 1,337,315 570,322 6,950,279 1,213,543 Weighted average exercise price 48.35p 86.34p 92.61p 110.84p 44.90p 15.19p As at 31 December 2017, the following share options and awards were outstanding: Outstanding Outstanding Exercisable at 25 Granted Exercised Forfeited at 31 at 31 December during the during the during the December December 2016 period period period 2017 2017 Scheme Exercise price Number Number Number Number Number Number 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 0.00p to 43.16p 3,740,492 1,303,954 586,177 385,896 4,072,373 1,334,766 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan 1,602,000 1,602,000 Dominos Pizza Unapproved Scheme 69.67p to 70.0p 52,776 23,997 28,779 28,779 Dominos Pizza CSOP Unapproved Scheme 113.67p to 160.80p 82,023 30,876 3,534 47,613 47,613 Dominos Pizza CSOP Approved Scheme 68.50p to 160.80p 211,263 77,748 3,726 129,789 129,789 Sharesave Scheme 143.33p to 275.33p 1,101,471 521,899 347,682 133,304 1,142,384 6,790,025 1,825,853 1,066,480 526,460 7,022,938 1,540,947 Weighted average exercise price 45.70p 69.17p 95.66p 35.22p 48.35p 41.92p Dominos Pizza Group plc 160 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 30.
ADDITIONAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 Notes m m Cash flows from investing activities Receipts from the sale of other non-current assets 0.2 Payment of deferred consideration 1.1 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 17 1.6 1.2 Decrease increase in loans to associates and joint ventures 17 5.8 0.1 Increase decrease in loans to franchisees 0.3 0.4 Receipts from repayment of franchisee leases 1.2 Payments to acquire finance lease assets 0.7 Other 3.3 0.7 Reconciliation of financing activities At 31 December Exchange Non-cash At 30 December 2017 Cash flow differences movements 2018 m m m m m Bank revolving facility 113.9 108.0 2.6 224.5 Bank loans 3.9 0.7 3.2 Finance leases 0.4 0.4 Other 58.6 96.2 0.3 64.9 27.6 176.8 11.1 2.9 64.9 255.7 At 25 December Exchange Non-cash At 31 December 2016 Cash flow differences movements 2017 m m m m m Bank revolving facility 56.7 56.4 0.8 113.9 Bank loans 0.2 0.2 3.9 3.9 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Other 0.9 57.7 58.6 57.7 56.7 0.2 62.6 176.8 Included within other loans are gross put option liabilities of 11.8m 2017: 40.3m and share buyback liabilities of 15.8m 2017: 18.3m.
Purchase of own shares 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 Notes m m Purchase of own shares - share buyback 59.2 26.8 Purchase of own shares - employee benefit trust 4.4 9.8 63.6 36.6 31.
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS At 31 December 2017, amounts contracted for but not provided for in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounted to nil 2017: 2.0m for the Group.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Pursuant to the relevant regulation of the European Communities Companies: Group Accounts Regulations 1992 the Company has guaranteed the liabilities of the Irish subsidiary, DP Pizza Limited, and as a result the Irish Company has been exempted from the filing provisions in section 7, Companies Amendment Act 1986 of the ROI.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 161 33.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS Share buybacks Subsequent to 30 December 2018, the Group bought back a total of 6,276,657 Ordinary shares for a total value of 15.8m, fully extinguishing the share buyback liability at 30 December 2018 note 21.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The financial statements include the financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc and the subsidiary and associated undertakings listed below.
Proportion of Country of voting rights and Name of Company incorporation share capital Registered office Directly held subsidiary undertakings DP Norway AS Norway 71% Ordinary Kabelgata 8, Oslo, 0580, Norway DP Capital Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB United Kingdom DP Cyco Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Rigas, 4, Omega Court, Floor 1, Limassol, 3095, Cyprus DP Cyco Switzerland Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Rigas, 4, Omega Court, Floor 1, Limassol, 3095, Cyprus DP Group Developments Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB United Kingdom DP Realty Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB United Kingdom DPG Holdings Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB United Kingdom 1 Pizza Pizza EHF Iceland 95.3% Ordinary Louholar 2-6, 11 Reykjavik, Iceland PPS Foods AB Sweden 71% Ordinary Elias Lnnrots Vg 19, 168 46 Bromma, Sweden Indirectly held subsidiary undertakings D. P. Newcastle Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom 6 Deutsche Dominoid GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary c o Cormoran GmbH, Am Zirkus 2, 10117, Berlin, Germany Dolly Dimples Norge AS Norway 71% Ordinary Kabelgata 8, Oslo, 0580, Norway 6 Dominos Pizza Germany GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary c o Cormoran GmbH, Am Zirkus 2, 10117, Berlin, Germany Dominos Leasing Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom Dominos Pizza Isle of Man Limited Isle of Man 100% Ordinary First Floor, Jubilee Buildings, Victoria Street, Douglas, IM1 2SH, Isle of Man Dominos Pizza Germany Holdings Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom Dominos Pizza Germany Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom Dominos Pizza GmbH Switzerland 100% Ordinary Europastrasse 19, 8152, Glattbrugg, Switzerland Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom DP Operations AS Norway 71% Ordinary Kabelgata 8, Oslo, 0580, Norway DP Pizza Limited Republic 100% Ordinary Unit 1B Toughers Business Park, Newhall, Naas Co. Kildare, Ireland of Ireland DP Production AS Norway 71% Ordinary Nesveien 13, Haslum, 1344, Norway 6 DP Realty Deutschland GbmH Germany 100% Ordinary c o Cormoran GmbH, Am Zirkus 2, 10117, Berlin, Germany 6 HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary c o Cormoran GmbH, Am Zirkus 2, 10117, Berlin, Germany 3 Sell More Pizza Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom 3 Sheermans Harrow Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom 3 Sheermans Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom 3 Sheermans SS Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom 3 WAP Partners Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom 2 Have More Fun London Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom Dominos Pizza Group plc 162 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 34.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED Proportion of Country of voting rights and Name of Company incorporation share capital Registered office Direct Associate undertakings Daytona JV Limited England 33.3% Ordinary 3rd Floor, 1 Ashley Road, Altrincham, Cheshire WA14 2DT, United Kingdom Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Indirectly held subsidiaries of associate undertakings B N Sandy Newcastle Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom B N Sandy Cannock Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Bristol Curry Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Classic Crust Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Dancing Tiger Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Freshname 845 Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Full House Restaurants Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Hallo Pizza GmbH Germany 33.3% Ordinary Hans-Bckler-Strasse 48, 40764 Langenfeld, Germany House Special Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom J M R Foster Winsford Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Sherston Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Sunmead Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Surrey Pizzas Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom The Woodpecker Inn Ltd England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Daytona Germany GmbH Germany 33% Ordinary Holzdamm 57, 20099, Hamburg, Germany Dominos Pizza Deutschland GmbH Germany 33% Ordinary Holzdamm 57, 20099, Hamburg, Germany Direct Joint venture undertakings Dominos Pizza West Country Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB United Kingdom Indirectly held subsidiaries of joint venture undertakings DA Hall Trading Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom DAHT Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB United Kingdom MLS Limited England 50% Ordinary Aldreth, Pearcroft Road, Stonehouse, Gloucestershire GL10 2JY, United Kingdom Investment undertakings Republic of 4 Shorecal Limited Ireland 15% Ordinary 4 Haddington Terrace, Dun Laoghaire, Co. Dublin, A96DX80, Ireland 1 The Group acquired 44.3% of Pizza Pizza EHF in January 2018.
2 Have More Fun London Limited was acquired during August 2018.
3 The Group acquired the remaining 25% of Sell More Pizza Limited during October 2018.
4 The Group acquired a 15% interest in Shorecal Limited during November 2018.
5 The Group sold its 50% interest in DP Shayban Limited and its subsidiaries in December 2018.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 163 During the period the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties.
For details of loan balances due from associates please refer to note 16.
Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding with related parties, are as follows: Sales to Amounts owed related party by related party m m Related party Associates and joint ventures 30 December 2018 41.1 1.3 31 December 2017 33.0 1.9 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales and purchases between related parties are made at normal market prices.
Outstanding balances with entities are unsecured and interest free and cash settlement is expected within seven days of invoice.
The Group has not provided for or benefited from any guarantees for any related party receivables or payables.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits 4.4 15.1 Post-employment benefits 0.2 Share-based payment 0.4 1.6 5.0 16.7 The table above includes the remuneration costs of the Executive Directors of the Company, the Directors of Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited and other key management personnel of the Group.
A provision for employment taxes has been recorded in the prior year see note 2.
The related expense has been included in the compensation to current and former Directors and members of the senior management team in 2017.
The amount pertaining to current Directors is included in the Directors remuneration report.
The amounts are presented gross and do not reflect future recoveries of the expense from certain members of the senior management team and Directors.
