FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION Consequently, the directors also have a reasonable expectation The consolidated financial statements provide detailed that the Group will continue in existence for the next 12 months information about the financial performance Consolidated and, therefore, have adopted the going concern basis in preparing income statement, financial position Consolidated balance these financial statements.
sheet, and cash flows Consolidated cash flow statement of Drax Group plc the Company together with all of the entities Basis of consolidation controlled by the Company collectively, the Group.
These consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial results of the Company and of all entities controlled by the The notes to the financial statements provide additional information Company, its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
on the items in the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated The Company owns 100% of the equity of all subsidiaries.
balance sheet and Consolidated cash flow statement.
The notes include explanations of the information presented.
In general, the The Group acquired and gained control of ScottishPower additional information in the notes to the financial statements is Generation Limited subsequently renamed Drax Generation required by law, International Financial Reporting Standards Enterprise Limited, a company that owns and operates a portfolio IFRS or other regulations to facilitate increased understanding of UK hydro, pumped storage and gas-fired generation assets, at of the primary statements set out on pages 118-122.
23:59 on 31 December 2018 the Acquired Generation Business.
The assets and liabilities acquired have been included in the BASIS OF PREPARATION Groups Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2018.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Due to the timing of the acquisition, no income, expenditure or with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore the cash flows are included in the Groups consolidated financial consolidated financial statements comply with Article 4 of the statements in respect of the Acquired Generation Business.
EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared on the historical The significant accounting policies for the measurement of an cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities that are individual item in the financial statements are described in the measured at fair value principally derivative financial instruments note to the financial statements relating to the item concerned and those acquired as part of business combinations and the see contents on page 117. assets and liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes measured at fair value and using the projected unit credit The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the method respectively.
consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual consolidated Foreign currency transactions financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, except Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at for the adoption of new standards effective as of 1 January 2018. the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
At each The Group has not early-adopted any standard, interpretation or balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are amendment that has been issued but is not yet effective.
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items are not retranslated.
A full listing of new standards, interpretations and pronouncements under IFRS applicable to these financial Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on such revaluations statements is presented in note 8.2.
The application of new are recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
requirements has not had a material effect on the financial statements, other than in respect of IFRS 9.
The transition to Foreign operations IFRS 9 is described in note 8.3.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations with a functional currency other than sterling are translated into Note 8.2 also includes the anticipated impact of IFRS 16 which sterling using published exchange rates at the reporting date.
will affect the financial statements in future periods.
The income and expenditure of such operations are translated into sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting The preparation of financial statements requires judgement to be from the retranslation of the operations net assets and its results applied in forming the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires for the year are recognised in the Consolidated statement the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported of comprehensive income.
amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Going concern The Groups business activities, along with future developments Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an that may affect its financial performance, position and cash flows, ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which are discussed within the Strategic report on pages 1 to 49 of this the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The judgements involving a higher degree of estimation or In the viability statement on page 42 the directors state that complexity are set out below and in more detail, including they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able sensitivity analysis where appropriate, in the related notes.
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
114 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Critical accounting judgements Sources of estimation uncertainty The critical judgements made in the process of applying the The following are the sources of estimation uncertainty that Groups accounting policies during the year that have the most carry the most significant risk of a material effect on next years significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial accounts that is, the items where actual outcomes in the next statements are set out below.
12 months could vary significantly from the estimates made in determining the reported amount of an asset or liability.
Capacity market on 15 November 2018 the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union found in favour of a claim Property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment against the European Commission, annulling the Commissions is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its useful economic State aid approval of the UK Capacity Market.
Useful economic lives are estimated and based on past a standstill period on the Capacity Market, with payments under experience, future replacement cycles and other available existing contracts and future capacity auctions suspended evidence.
Useful economic lives are reviewed annually.
The Government have since announced that they expect the Capacity Market to be reinstated See note 3.1 on page 135 during 2019, and that back-dated payments will be made to generators who have complied with their capacity obligations Fair value of acquired assets and liabilities the assets and during the standstill period.
liabilities of the Acquired Generation Business have been recognised at fair value in the Groups Consolidated balance sheet.
Following the ruling, the Group ceased to accrue capacity The fair values of the property, plant and equipment have been market income in Generation.
Revenue accrued but unpaid calculated based on their depreciated replacement cost, before during the period from 1 October was derecognised due to adjusting to reflect either a premium for immediate availability or the current uncertainty over the recovery of these amounts a provision for economic obsolescence, as appropriate.
In addition, the terms of the acquisition include a risk-sharing Reflecting previous Government consultations and the mechanism with the vendor that may result in a change to the announcement on 7 February 2019 that the Collection Agent overall level of consideration payable in the event UK Capacity expects to recommence collection of the supplier charge from Market payments are not received during 2019.
A further payment March 2019, including amounts relating to the standstill period, may be made by the vendor, or by the Group, as applicable.
The Capacity Market costs have been accrued in the B2B Energy value and beneficiary of the further payment is dependent upon Supply business in full.
the gross profit achieved by the acquired business in 2019 and is capped at 26 million, as described in the Circular of 5 December The impact of this approach on the Groups financial statements 2018, published on the Groups website.
is a reduction in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of approximately 7 million.
On the basis the Group believes that the Capacity Market will be reinstated during 2019, with back-payments made to generators, See note 7.6 on page 171 the fair value of the contingent payment at 31 December 2018 is considered to be nil.
The contingent arrangement could increase On the basis the Group expects the Capacity Market to be or decrease the fair value of the acquisition consideration in these reinstated during 2019, with back-payments made to generators, financial statements by up to 26 million.
the suspension has not had a material impact on estimates of future cash flows for the purpose of impairment analyses in the See note 5.1 on page 148 Generation business, including the OCGT development projects.
Impairment an impairment review is conducted annually of See note 2.4 on page 128 and note 5.3 on page 150 goodwill and of other assets and cash-generating units where an indicator of possible impairment exists.
In 2018, an impairment Certain remeasurements and exceptional items management assessment has been completed for three of the Groups CGUs makes judgements regarding transactions to exclude from the which have allocated goodwill or intangible assets with an Adjusted Results of the Group, as described under Alternative indefinite life.
The assessment of future cash flows that underpins Performance Measures, below.
such a review is based on managements best estimate of retail margins, future commodity prices, supply volumes, the capacity market and economic conditions.
See note 2.7 on page 132 Acquisition accounting having assessed the circumstances of See note 2.4 on page 128 and notes 5.2 and 5.3 on page 150 the transaction to purchase the Acquired Generation Business on 31 December 2018, it was concluded that the transaction represented the acquisition of a business and not an asset purchase.
The Group acquired assets, people and processes.
Accordingly, the transaction has been treated as a business combination in the financial statements.
See note 5.1 on page 148 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Derivatives derivative financial instruments are recorded in the ADOPTION OF IFRS 9 AND IFRS 15 Groups balance sheet at fair value.
The assessment of fair value In the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group has applied IFRS 15 is derived from assuming a market price for the instrument in Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial question.
The Group bases its assessment of market prices upon Instruments for the first time.
forward curves that are largely derived from readily obtainable quotations and third party sources.
However, any forward During the year, the Group reviewed the presentation of gains and curve is based at least in part upon assumptions about future losses on derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for transactions and market movements.
Where such instruments hedge accounting in the consolidated income statement.
Following extend beyond the liquid portion of the forward curve, the this review, the Group has elected to present these amounts in the level of estimation increases as the number of observable line item most closely related to the underlying commodity contract.
Previously unrealised gains and losses were presented separately.
In addition, the Group has elected to apply the cost of hedging provisions of IFRS 9, resulting in certain unrealised gains and losses previously See note 7.2 on page 167 recognised in the income statement being recognised in reserves.
Revenue recognition the nature of some of the Groups Both of these changes have been applied retrospectively and activities, particularly within the B2B Energy Supply segment, the prior year financial statements have been restated.
See note 8.3 results in revenue being based on the estimated volumes of for further details.
power supplied to customers at an estimated average price per unit.
Assumptions that underpin these estimates are applied Adoption of IFRS 15 has not resulted in any changes to the timing consistently and comparison of past estimates to final settlements or amount of revenue recognised.
See note 8.3 for further details.
suggests a high degree of accuracy.
However, actual outcomes may vary from initial estimates.
ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES APMS The Groups financial performance for the period, measured in Revenue from contracts satisfied over time is recognised in line accordance with IFRS, is shown in the Total Results column on with the progress of those contracts.
Assumptions are applied the face of the income statement.
Exceptional items and certain consistently but actual outcomes may vary from initial estimates.
remeasurements are deducted from the Total Results in arriving at the Adjusted Results for the year.
The Groups Adjusted Results See note 2.2 on page 125 are consistent with the way executive management and the Board assess the performance of the Group, and are intended to reflect the underlying trading performance of the Groups businesses and are Pensions the Group records a net surplus or liability in its balance sheet for its obligation to provide benefits under presented to assist users of the accounts in evaluating the Groups approved defined benefit pension schemes, less the fair value trading performance and performance against strategic objectives.
of assets held by the pension schemes.
The actuarial valuation Exceptional items are those transactions that, by their nature, do not of the scheme assets and liabilities is performed annually and depends on assumptions regarding interest rates, inflation, reflect the trading performance of the Group in the period.
For future salary and pension increases, mortality and other factors, a transaction to be considered exceptional, management considers the nature of the transaction, the frequency of similar events, any of which are subject to future change.
previous precedent and commercial context.
Exceptional items An actuarial gain on the Groups defined benefit pension scheme are approved by the Audit Committee.
has resulted in an accounting surplus arising on the Groups Certain remeasurements comprise fair value gains and losses on defined benefit pension scheme at 31 December 2018.
The terms of the Trust Deed allow the Group to recover any surplus once derivative forward contracts to the extent those contracts do not the liabilities of the scheme have been settled: accordingly, the qualify for hedge accounting, or hedge accounting is not effective, surplus has been recognised in full as a non-current asset on the which under IFRS are recorded in revenue or cost of sales as described above.
The Group regards all of its forward contracting balance sheet.
The net surplus in 2018 includes an initial estimate of amounts due in respect of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension activity to represent an economic hedge.
The impact of excluding to equalise pension benefits for men and women, following a these fair value remeasurements is to reflect commodity sales and purchases at contracted prices the price paid or received in respect High Court ruling in October 2018. of delivery of the commodity in question, taking into account the impact of financial trading such as forward foreign currency See note 6.3 on page 157 purchases, in the Adjusted Results.
Taxation in accounting for both current and deferred tax the Further information on exceptional items and certain Group makes assumptions regarding the likely treatment of items remeasurements in the current and previous period is included of income and expenditure for tax purposes.
These assumptions in note 2.7 to the financial statements.
are based on interpretation of relevant legislation and, where required, consultation with external advisers.
The Group presents an additional subtotal in the Adjusted Results column.
Adjusted EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and See note 2.6 on page 130 certain remeasurements.
Adjusted EBITDA is the primary measure used by the Board and executive management to assess the financial performance of the Group.
116 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS SECTION 1 SECTION 5 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 118 Consolidated income statement 148 5.1 Acquisitions 119 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 149 5.2 Goodwill 120 Consolidated balance sheet 150 5.3 Intangible assets 121 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 152 5.4 Provisions 122 Consolidated cash flow statement SECTION 6 SECTION 2 OUR PEOPLE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 153 6.1 Employees and directors 123 2.1 Segmental reporting 153 6.2 Share-based payments 125 2.2 Revenue 157 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations 127 2.3 Operating expenses 128 2.4 Review of fixed assets for impairment SECTION 7 129 2.5 Net finance costs RISK MANAGEMENT 130 2.6 Current and deferred taxation 163 7.1 Financial risk management 132 2.7 Certain remeasurements and exceptional items 167 7.2 Derivative financial instruments 133 2.8 Earnings per share 169 7.3 Other financial instruments 134 2.9 Dividends 170 7.4 Hedge reserve 134 2.10 Retained profits 171 7.5 Cost of hedging reserve 171 7.6 Contingent assets and liabilities SECTION 3 172 7.7 Commitments OPERATING ASSETS AND WORKING CAPITAL 135 3.1 Property, plant and equipment SECTION 8 137 3.2 Other fixed asset investments REFERENCE INFORMATION 138 3.3 ROC assets 173 8.1 General information 138 3.4 Inventories 173 8.2 Basis of preparation 139 3.5 Trade and other receivables 175 8.3 Adoption of new accounting standards and change 141 3.6 Contract costs in presentation of income statement 141 3.7 Trade and other payables 177 8.4 Related party transactions 178 8.5 Unaudited Pro forma financial information of the SECTION 4 enlarged group FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE 142 4.1 Reconciliation of net debt DRAX GROUP PLC 142 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents 182 Company financial statements 142 4.3 Borrowings 184 Notes to the Company financial statements 145 4.4 Cash generated from operations 146 4.5 Equity and reserves Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 117
