SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION KEY DATES FOR 2019 At the date of publication of this document, the following are the proposed key dates in the 2019 financial calendar: Annual General Meeting 17 April Ordinary shares marked ex-dividend 18 April Record date for entitlement to the final dividend 23 April Payment of final dividend 10 May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results 24 July Financial year end 31 December Other significant dates, or amendments to the proposed dates above, will be posted on the Companys website as and when they become available.
RESULTS ANNOUNCEMENTS Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are available on its news service.
Shortly afterwards, they are available under Regulatory news within the Investor section on the Companys website.
SHARE PRICE Shareholders can access the current share price of Drax Group plc ordinary shares on our website at www.
During London Stock Exchange trading hours the price shown on the website is subject to a delay of approximately 15 minutes and outside trading hours it is the last available price.
The table below provides an indication of the fluctuations in the Drax Group plc share price during the course of 2018, and the graph provides an indication of the trend of the share price throughout the year.
Closing price on Low during the year High during the year Closing price on 31 December 2017 13 February 2018 12 November 2018 31 December 2018 270.6 pence 221.4 427.2 358.8 pence 500 400 300 200 100 0 1 January 1 February 1 March 1 April 1 May 1 June 1 July 1 August 1 September 1 October 1 November 1 December 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Note: The share prices given are the middle market closing prices as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List MARKET CAPITALISATION The market capitalisation, based on the number of shares in issue and the closing price at 31 December 2018, was approximately 1,461 million 2017: 1,101 million.
FINANCIAL REPORTS Copies of all financial reports we publish are available from the date of publication and can be downloaded from our website.
Printed copies of reports can be requested by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office, by clicking on Contact Us on our website, or direct by e-mail to Drax.
188 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DRAX SHAREHOLDER QUERIES The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited Equiniti, who is primarily responsible for updating the share register and for dividend payments.
Shareholders should contact Equiniti directly if they have a query relating to their Drax shareholding, in particular queries regarding: transfer of shares: change of name or address: lost share certificates: lost or out-of-date dividend cheques: payment of dividends direct to a bank or building society account: and death of a registered shareholder.
Equiniti can be contacted as follows: Call Equiniti on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Bank Holidays : or 44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK.
Write to Equiniti at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
When contacting Equiniti by telephone or in writing it is advisable to have your shareholder reference to hand and quote Drax Group plc, as well as the name and address in which the shares are held.
ONLINE COMMUNICATIONS Registering for online communications allows you to have more control over the administration of your shareholding.
The registration process is easy via Equinitis secure website www.
Once registered with Shareview you are able to: elect how Drax communicates with you: amend some of your personal details: amend the way you receive dividends: and buy or sell shares online.
Registering for electronic communications does not mean that you can no longer receive paper copies of documents.
We are able to offer a range of services and tailor the communications to meet your needs.
A range of frequently asked shareholder questions can also be found on our website at www.
TAX ON DIVIDENDS In the 2017 Budget, the Chancellor announced changes in the way that dividends would be taxed in the future.
Below is a brief summary of the guidance provided by HMRC.
If you are in any doubt as to the impact on your personal circumstances, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from a professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The tax-free Dividend Allowance of 5,000 per annum was reduced to 2,000 effective April 2018.
This means that there is no tax to pay on the first 2,000 of dividend income, no matter what non-dividend income a shareholder may have.
Dividends paid on shares held within pensions and ISAs will be unaffected, remaining tax-free.
Non-taxpayers and basic rate taxpayers who receive dividend income between 2,001 and 10,000 will need to make a declaration to HMRC for the first time.
Individuals with dividend income of more than 10,000 are already required to be in HMRCs SelfAssessment regime.
The impact on Share Incentive Plan participants receiving cash dividends on their plan shares align with those for Shareholders.
Further information and updates on tax on dividends can be found on the HMRC website at www.
uk tax-on-dividends Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 189 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND INFORMATION RIGHTS If your shares are registered in the name of a third party i. e. an ISA provider or other nominee company you may, if you wish, receive information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006.
In order for this to happen, you must contact the third party registered holder, who will then nominate you.
All communications by beneficial owners of shares where the shares are held by third party registered holders must be directed to that registered holder and not to Drax or Equiniti.
SHAREGIFT ShareGift registered charity No.
1052686 is an independent charity which provides a free service for shareholders wishing to dispose charitably of small parcels of shares, which would most likely cost more to sell than they are worth.
There are no capital gains tax implications i. e. no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further information can be obtained directly from the charity at www.
SHARE FRAUDS BOILER ROOM SCAMS In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence offering to purchase their shares at apparently inflated prices.
It is often the case that the caller, or message in the correspondence claims that they represent a majority shareholder who is looking to take over the Company.
At the time of this report, the Company was not the subject of a take-over attempt, hostile or otherwise, and approaches such as those outlined are usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals.
Shareholders should be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a premium or offers of free reports into the Company.
Below is the advice from the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA.
BEWARE OF SHARE FRAUD Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
How to avoid share fraud: Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
Check the Financial Services Register from www.
uk to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details.
Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to call it back.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
REPORT A SCAM If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
190 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018
