GLOSSARY ADJUSTED EBITDA DARK GREEN SPREAD Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, The difference between the power price and the cost of coal and excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain carbon, including CO allowances under the EU Emissions Trading 2 remeasurements.
Scheme and the UK Carbon Price Support CPS Mechanism.
ADJUSTED RESULTS DEPARTMENT FOR BUSINESS, ENERGY AND INDUSTRIAL Business performance after adjusting for material, one-off STRATEGY BEIS exceptional items, certain remeasurements, acquisition The Government department bringing together the and restructuring costs, and debt restructuring costs.
responsibilities for business, industrial strategy, science, innovation, energy and climate change formerly DECC.
EU ETS The EU Emissions Trading System is a mechanism introduced ANCILLARY SERVICES across the EU to reduce emissions of CO : the scheme is capable 2 Services provided to national grid used for balancing supply of being extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions.
and demand or maintaining secure electricity supplies within acceptable limits, for example Black Start contracts.
They are FEED-IN TARIFF described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
A long-term contract set at a fixed level where variable payments are made to ensure the generator receives an agreed tariff.
AVAILABILITY The feed-in tariff payment would be made in addition to the Average percentage of time the units were available for generation.
generators revenues from selling in the market.
BARK SPREAD FORCED OUTAGE The difference between the power price and the cost of biomass, Any reduction in plant availability, excluding planned outages.
FORCED OUTAGE RATE BLACK START The capacity which is not available due to forced outages Procedure used to restore power in the event of a total or partial or restrictions expressed as a percentage of the maximum shutdown of the national electricity transmission system.
theoretical capacity, less planned outage capacity.
BIOMASS FREQUENCY RESPONSE Organic material of non-fossil origin, including organic waste, that Automatic change in generator output aimed at maintaining can be converted into bioenergy through combustion.
Drax uses a system frequency of 50Hz.
Frequency response is required woody biomass from low grade wood, sawmill residues and forest in every second of the day.
residues, in the form of compressed wood pellets, to generate electricity at Drax Power.
GRID CHARGES Includes transmission network use of system charges TNUoS, CAPACITY MARKET balancing services use of system charges BSUoS and Part of the Governments Electricity Market Reform, the Capacity distribution use of system charges DUoS.
Market is intended to ensure security of electricity supply by providing a payment for reliable sources of capacity.
HEADROOM AND FOOTROOM Positive reserve see opposite may be termed headroom CARBON PRICE SUPPORT MECHANISM OR CARBON PRICE and negative reserve as footroom.
FLOOR OR CARBON TAX A tax upon fossil fuels including coal used to generate IFRSs electricity.
It is charged as a levy on coal delivered to the International Financial Reporting Standards.
INERTIA CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE CFD The stored energy in the large rotating mass of a generator, A mechanism to support investment in low-carbon electricity which assists in maintaining system stability.
The CfD works by stabilising revenues for generators power sources have no inertia.
at a fixed price level known as the strike price.
Generators will receive revenue from selling their electricity into the market LEVY CONTROL FRAMEWORK as usual.
However, when the market reference price is below A control framework for BEIS levy-funded spending intended to the strike price they will also receive a top-up payment from make sure that BEIS achieves its fuel poverty, energy and climate suppliers for the additional amount.
Conversely if the reference change goals in a way that is consistent with economic recovery price is above the strike price, the generator must pay back and minimising the impact on consumer bills.
LOAD FACTOR Net sent out generation as a percentage of maximum sales.
192 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 LOST TIME INJURY RATE LTIR SUMMER The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: lost time The calendar months April to September.
Lost time injuries are defined as occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for SYSTEM OPERATOR more than 24 hours.
Responsible for the coordination of electricity flows onto and over the transmission NET CASH DEBT system, balancing generation supply and user demand.
Comprises cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments less overdrafts and borrowings net of deferred finance costs.
TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE TRIR The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: lost time PLANNED OUTAGE injuries worse than first aid injuries hours worked x 100,000.
A period during which scheduled maintenance is executed according to the plan set at the outset of the year.
VALUE FROM FLEXIBILITY A measure of the value from flexible power generation, support PROSUMER services provided to the power network and attractively priced An individual, business or institution that consumes and coal fuels produces a product, such as electricity.
VOLTAGE CONTROL RESERVE Maintenance of voltage within specified limits in order to push Generation or demand available to be dispatched by the System power around the system to maintain safety and stability.
Operator to correct a generation demand imbalance, normally at two or more minutes notice.
WINTER The calendar months October to March.
RIDDORS Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
ROCS A Renewable Obligation Certificate ROC is a certificate issued to an accredited generator for electricity generated from eligible renewable sources.
The Renewable Obligation RO is currently the main support scheme for renewable electricity projects in the UK.
Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements The report is printed on UPM Fine SC.
This paper is made from This annual report does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, virgin wood fibre from well-managed forest independently or otherwise acquire or dispose of shares or other securities in Drax Group plc.
certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship This Annual Report contains forward looking statements in relation to the future financial Council FSC and other controlled sources.
It is manufactured and operating performance and outlook of Drax Group plc, as well as future events and their potential effects on Drax Group plc.
Generally the words will, may, should, continue, at a mill that is that is certified to ISO14001 and EMAS environmental believes, targets, plans, expects, estimates, aims, intends, anticipates, or similar standards.
The mill uses pulps that are totally chlorine free TCF, expressions or negatives thereof identify forward looking statements.
Forward looking and some pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF statements include statements relating to the following: expected developments in our businesses, expected revenues, expected margins, expected EBITDA, expected trends, process.
The inks in printing this report are all vegetable-based.
expected growth in our businesses, expected future cash generation, expected future tax rates, expected future interest rates, availability of debt, ability to service prevailing debt, expected cost savings, opportunities in our industry, the acquisition of a portfolio of assets Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group, a CarbonNeutral from ScottishPower, utilisation of capital, the impact of Brexit, the review of the UK Capacity company, certificated to Environmental Management System Mechanism, payments under the Capacity Market, ability to source fuels including gas, coal, ISO14001 and holders of FSC chain of custody certification.
biomass fuels and others, the impact of government regulation and other expectations and beliefs of management and the Board of Directors.
Actual risks and developments could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements Design and production as a result of numerous risks and uncertainties.
The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report.
Neither Drax Group plc, nor any other person undertakes any obligation to update or revise publicly any of the forward looking statements set out herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
com Drax Group plc Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH T 44 0 1757 618381
