Financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows Notes to the consolidated financial statements Year ended 30 April 2018 2018 2017 ii Interests in equity accounted investments 1.
Significant accounting policies Continuing operations Note m m The Groups interests in equity accounted investments comprise a Basis of preparation Operating activities interests in associates and joint ventures.
An associate is an entity These financial statements are consolidated financial statements Cash generated from operations 26 576 629 over which the Group has significant influence, but not control or for the Group consisting of DS Smith Plc, a company registered Interest received 1 1 joint control, over the financial and operating policy decisions of the in England and Wales, and all its subsidiaries.
The consolidated Interest paid 42 46 investment.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group has joint financial statements have been prepared and approved by the control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the entity, Tax paid 82 61 Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs, and with Cash flows from operating activities 453 523 those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies Investing activities Interests in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 30 615 71 equity method.
They are recognised initially at cost, which includes are also in compliance with IFRSs as issued by the International Capital expenditure 347 244 transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition the consolidated Accounting Standards Board IASB.
financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 18 18 and other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, Cash flows from restricted cash and other deposits 6 The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases.
cost basis with the exception of biological assets, other investments, Cash flows used in investing activities 950 297 assets and liabilities of certain financial instruments and employee Financing activities iii Non-controlling interests benefit plans that are stated at their fair value and share-based Proceeds from issue of share capital 283 13 Non-controlling interests are shown as a component of equity in payments that are stated at their grant date fair value.
Repayment of borrowings 490 924 the consolidated statement of financial position net of the value of options over interests held by non-controlling interests in the Proceeds from borrowings 1,008 785 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on Groups subsidiaries.
a going concern basis as set out on page 61 of the Directors Proceeds from settlement of derivative financial instruments 2 31 report.
The Directors consider that adequate resources exist Repayment of finance lease obligations 4 9 iv Business combinations for the Company to continue in operational existence for the Dividends paid to Group shareholders 9 157 121 The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of foreseeable future.
Identifiable net assets acquired including intangibles Cash flows from used in financing activities 638 225 The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions Increase in cash and cash equivalents 141 1 that affect whether and how policies are applied, and the reported Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 May 123 115 Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Estimates Exchange gains on cash and cash equivalents 4 7 acquired is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which the with a significant risk of material adjustment and critical accounting Net cash and cash equivalents at 30 April 18 268 123 combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values.
Final judgements are discussed in accounting policy 1 z and 1 aa.
fair values are determined within a year of the acquisition date and The following new accounting standards, amendments or applied retrospectively.
interpretations have been adopted by the Group as of 1 May 2017: The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses: including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative: and The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle.
the assets given, equity instruments issued if any, and liabilities The adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations assumed or incurred at the date of acquisition.
has not had a material effect on the results for the year.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently in all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the The accounting policies have been applied consistently by all consolidated financial statements from the acquisition date.
b Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
com 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued The assets and liabilities of all the Group entities that have a c Revenue functional currency other than sterling are translated at the closing Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, exchange rate at the reporting date.
Income and expenses for each net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue from the sale this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative of goods is recognised when: effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the date of the transactions.
the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer: On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, borrowings, and other all significant performance obligations have been met: financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement nor are recognised in the translation reserve.
On the disposal of foreign effective control over the goods sold: currency entities, the cumulative exchange difference recorded in it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the the translation reserve is taken to the consolidated income transaction will flow to the Group: and statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
h Intangible assets This is typically either when the goods are loaded onto the i Goodwill collection vehicle if the buyer is collecting them, or when the The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the goods are unloaded at the delivery address if the Group is purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of identifiable responsible for delivery.
assets acquired to be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity.
The Group makes judgements and estimates in d Supplier rebates relation to the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
The Group receives income from its suppliers, mainly in the form of volume based rebates and early settlement discounts.
These are Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The useful life of goodwill is considered to be indefinite.
Goodwill recognised as a reduction in operating costs in the year to which they relate.
At the period end, where appropriate, the Group estimates is allocated to the cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination supplier income due from annual agreements for volume rebates.
and is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if e Government grants impairment is indicated.
Government grants are recognised in the statement of financial On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the position initially as deferred income when there is reasonable attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply the profit or loss recognised in the consolidated income statement.
with the conditions attached to them.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are offset against the expenses in the ii Intellectual property same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants relating Intellectual property is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation to assets are released to the income statement over the expected and impairment.
useful life of the asset to which they relate on a basis consistent with the depreciation policy.
Depreciation is provided on the full cost of iii Computer software the assets before deducting grants.
Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is included within property, plant and equipment.
All other computer f Dividends software is treated as an intangible asset.
Dividends attributable to the equity holders of the Company paid during the year are recognised directly in equity.
iv Customer related Customer relationships, acquired as part of a business combination, g Foreign currency translation are capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost less The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, accumulated amortisation and impairment.
which is the Groups presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of v Other intangible assets Group companies at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are carried at of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated into the vi Amortisation functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at that date.
Amortisation of intangible assets excluding goodwill is charged to Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of monetary the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated assets and liabilities are recognised in the consolidated income useful lives of intangible assets, unless such lives are indefinite.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at Intangible assets other than goodwill are amortised from the historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange date they are available for use.
rates at the dates of the transactions.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Intellectual property Up to 20 years Computer software 3-5 years Customer relationships 5-15 years 10 94 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Reversals of impairment 1.
Significant accounting policies continued The assets and liabilities of all the Group entities that have a 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In respect c Revenue functional currency other than sterling are translated at the closing i Property, plant and equipment of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, exchange rate at the reporting date.
Income and expenses for each Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless depreciation and impairment.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue from the sale this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would of goods is recognised when: effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case basis over the estimated useful lives of each item of property, plant have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no income and expenses are translated at the date of the transactions.
the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of and equipment, and major components that are accounted for impairment loss had been recognised.
ownership to the buyer: On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation separately or in the case of leased assets, the lease period, if l Derivative financial instruments of the net investment in foreign entities, borrowings, and other shorter.
all significant performance obligations have been met: The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily interest financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement nor The estimated useful lives are as follows: rate, currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, are recognised in the translation reserve.
On the disposal of foreign effective control over the goods sold: currency and commodity risks associated with the Groups underlying currency entities, the cumulative exchange difference recorded in Freehold and long leasehold properties 10-50 years it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the business activities and the financing of these activities.
The Group the translation reserve is taken to the consolidated income Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 2-30 years transaction will flow to the Group: and has a policy not to, and does not, undertake any speculative activity statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
including IT hardware in these instruments.
Motor vehicles 3-5 years h Intangible assets Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair This is typically either when the goods are loaded onto the i Goodwill Gains or losses arising on the sale of surplus property assets value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and collection vehicle if the buyer is collecting them, or when the The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the are recorded through operating profit before adjusting items.
are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as goods are unloaded at the delivery address if the Group is purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of identifiable j Other investments assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair responsible for delivery.
assets acquired to be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the Other investments primarily consist of available for sale value is negative.
The Group makes judgements and estimates in d Supplier rebates investments in unquoted equity securities and restricted cash.
relation to the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
Derivative financial instruments are accounted for as hedges when The Group receives income from its suppliers, mainly in the form Equity securities which are reliably measureable are measured at designated as hedges at the inception of the contract and when of volume based rebates and early settlement discounts.
The remainder of other investments are carried at cost the financial instruments provide an effective hedge of the The useful life of goodwill is considered to be indefinite.
Goodwill recognised as a reduction in operating costs in the year to which they less any impairment.
At the period end, where appropriate, the Group estimates is allocated to the cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, k Impairment that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination supplier income due from annual agreements for volume rebates.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, including tangible and and is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if e Government grants intangible non-current assets, are reviewed at each reporting date fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the impairment is indicated.
Government grants are recognised in the statement of financial to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
If any fair value of a recognised asset or liability: On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the position initially as deferred income when there is reasonable such indicators exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply Goodwill is tested for impairment annually at the same time, flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with either the profit or loss recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Grants that compensate the regardless of the presence of an impairment indicator.
An impairment a statement of financial position item or a highly probable forecast Group for expenses incurred are offset against the expenses in the loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset, ii Intellectual property transaction: or same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants relating collection of assets or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Intellectual property is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity.
to assets are released to the income statement over the expected Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
useful life of the asset to which they relate on a basis consistent with The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives i Cash generating units the depreciation policy.
Depreciation is provided on the full cost of iii Computer software designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the For the purposes of property, plant and equipment and other the assets before deducting grants.
Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is hedging relationship as follows: intangibles impairment testing, each operating segment, split by included within property, plant and equipment.
All other computer f Dividends process e. g. Packaging, Paper, Recycling, is a separate individual Fair value hedges: the carrying amount of the hedged item is software is treated as an intangible asset.
Dividends attributable to the equity holders of the Company paid CGU.
Goodwill impairment testing is carried out based on regional adjusted for gains or losses attributable to the risk being hedged during the year are recognised directly in equity.
iv Customer related groupings of CGUs as illustrated in note 10, as this is the lowest level and the derivative is remeasured at fair value.
Gains and losses Customer relationships, acquired as part of a business combination, at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
from both the hedged item and the fair value of derivatives are taken g Foreign currency translation are capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost less to the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, ii Calculation of recoverable amount accumulated amortisation and impairment.
accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated which is the Groups presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign The recoverable amount of the Groups assets is calculated as the or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of v Other intangible assets value-in-use of the CGU to which the assets are attributed or the accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
Group companies at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are carried at net selling price, if greater.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting of the transactions.
the cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU group of CGUs Cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated into the being tested for evidence of impairment.
This is done using a pre-tax the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the vi Amortisation functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at that date.
discount rate that reflects the current assessment of the time value ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts Amortisation of intangible assets excluding goodwill is charged to Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of monetary of money, and the country-specific risks for which the cash flows taken to equity are transferred to the income statement in the same the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated assets and liabilities are recognised in the consolidated income have not been adjusted.
For an asset that does not generate largely period during which the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, useful lives of intangible assets, unless such lives are indefinite.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
Where the hedged Intangible assets other than goodwill are amortised from the historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange the CGU to which the asset belongs.
item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts date they are available for use.
taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of The estimated useful lives are as follows: the non-financial asset or liability.
Intellectual property Up to 20 years Computer software 3-5 years Customer relationships 5-15 years 10 11 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued q Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
l Derivative financial instruments continued Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of without replacement or roll-over, the hedged transaction ceases cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash to be highly probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, flows.
Cash and cash equivalents are stated at amortised cost.
amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income Cash subject to contractual restrictions on use by the Group is statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated or liability as above.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to financial statements and is presented within other investments occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Restricted cash the income statement.
is stated at amortised cost.
Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: the effective portion r Borrowings of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income borrowings are stated at amortised cost unless designated in a fair statement when the foreign entity is sold.
value hedge relationship, with borrowing costs being accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other interest method.
derivatives are taken to the income statement.
These may arise from derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they At the reporting date, accrued interest is recorded separately from are not effective as hedging instruments.
the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
The net present value of the expected future payments under s Employee benefits options over interests held by non-controlling interests in the Groups i Defined contribution schemes subsidiaries is shown as a financial liability.
At the end of each period, Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes recognised as an employee benefit expense within personnel recognised in profit or loss for the period.
expenses in the income statement, as incurred.
m Treasury shares ii Defined benefit schemes When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable schemes is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares are the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is total equity.
discounted to its present value amount and recognised in the income n Trade and other receivables statement within personnel expenses: a corresponding liability for all future benefits is established on the statement of financial position Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment provisions.
and the fair value of any schemes assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit o Inventories rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the duration Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The calculation is performed by a Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
Actuarial gains course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on a weighted average comprehensive income.
cost and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
In the case iii Share-based payment transactions of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the p Biological assets grant of the options is recognised within personnel expenses, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees Biological assets consist of standing timber, measured at fair unconditionally become entitled to the awards.
The fair value of the value less cost to sell.
Any change in fair value resulting from both options granted is measured using a stochastic model, taking into net growth and change in the market value of standing timber is account the terms and conditions upon which the options were presented in the income statement.
The revenue from the sale of granted.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period standing timber is presented within revenue.
is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
At each reporting date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
12 96 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued q Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet liability method, Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
l Derivative financial instruments continued t Provisions providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of without replacement or roll-over, the hedged transaction ceases the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result amounts used for taxation purposes.
The tax effect of certain cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash to be highly probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, of a past event, a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of temporary differences is not recognised, principally with respect flows.
amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the obligation and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits to goodwill: temporary differences arising on the initial recognition the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are discounted to of assets or liabilities other than those arising in a business Cash subject to contractual restrictions on use by the Group is statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset present value where the effect is material.
combination or in a manner that initially impacts accounting or excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated or liability as above.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to taxable profit : and temporary differences relating to investment in financial statements and is presented within other investments u Trade and other payables occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to subsidiaries and equity accounted investees to the extent that they in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Restricted cash Trade and other payables are stated at their cost.
will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future and the Group is stated at amortised cost.
is able to control the reversal of such temporary differences.
The v Leases Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: the effective portion r Borrowings amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner i Finance leases of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower of their fair value statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income borrowings are stated at amortised cost unless designated in a fair reporting date.
and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation statement when the foreign entity is sold.
value hedge relationship, with borrowing costs being accounted for on leased assets is charged to the income statement on the same A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting probable that future taxable profits will be available against which interest method.
These may arise from of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they income statement so that a constant periodic rate of interest is At the reporting date, accrued interest is recorded separately from extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit are not effective as hedging instruments.
recognised on the outstanding balance of the liability.
The net present value of the expected future payments under ii Operating leases s Employee benefits x Adjusting items options over interests held by non-controlling interests in the Groups Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a Items of income or expenditure that are significant by their nature, i Defined contribution schemes subsidiaries is shown as a financial liability.
At the end of each period, straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or discount on Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are size or incidence, and for which separate presentation would assist the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the lease on a in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the Group, recognised as an employee benefit expense within personnel recognised in profit or loss for the period.
are classified and disclosed as adjusting items.
m Treasury shares w Taxation Such items include business disposals, restructuring and optimisation, ii Defined benefit schemes When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and acquisition related and integration costs, and impairments.
The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the schemes is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares are y Non-GAAP performance measures extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or in other the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from In the reporting of financial information, the Group has adopted comprehensive income.
for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is total equity.
certain non-GAAP measures of historical or future financial discounted to its present value amount and recognised in the income Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for performance, position or cash flows other than those defined or n Trade and other receivables statement within personnel expenses: a corresponding liability for all the year, using tax rates enacted in each jurisdiction at the reporting specified under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
future benefits is established on the statement of financial position Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Non-GAAP measures are either not defined by IFRS or are adjusted The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number of different IFRS figures, and therefore may not be directly comparable with The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit o Inventories jurisdictions and judgement is required in determining the other companies reported non-GAAP measures, including those rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the duration Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
appropriate provision for transactions where the ultimate tax in the Groups industry.
The calculation is performed by a Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary determination is uncertain.
In such circumstances, the Group qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
Actuarial gains course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling Non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and are not recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes based on the best and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
The cost of inventories is based on a weighted average information available and where the anticipated liability is both comprehensive income.
cost and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories probable and estimable.
Such liabilities are classified as current Details of the Groups non-GAAP performance measures, including and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
In the case when the Group expects to settle the liability within 12 months with iii Share-based payment transactions reasons for their use and reconciliations to IFRS figures are included of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an the remainder as non-current.
Any interest and penalties accrued are as appropriate in note 32.
The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
included in income taxes in both the consolidated income statement The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the and the consolidated statement of financial position.
Where the final p Biological assets grant of the options is recognised within personnel expenses, with a outcome of such matters differs from the amount recorded, any corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees Biological assets consist of standing timber, measured at fair differences may impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions unconditionally become entitled to the awards.
Any change in fair value resulting from both in the period in which the final determination is made.
options granted is measured using a stochastic model, taking into net growth and change in the market value of standing timber is account the terms and conditions upon which the options were presented in the income statement.
com 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued ii Acquisitions 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Estimates are required to value assets and liabilities acquired z Key sources of estimates in business combinations at fair value and the purchase price The application of the Groups accounting policies requires is allocated to assets and liabilities based on these fair values.
management to make estimates and assumptions.
These estimates Determining fair values involves the use of significant estimates and and assumptions affect the reported assets and liabilities and assumptions including discount rates, asset lives, customer attrition financial results of the Group.
Actual outcomes could differ from rates and recoverability.
The value of intangible assets and property, the estimates and assumptions used.
plant and equipment on acquisition is typically determined by The Groups key sources of estimates are as detailed below.
qualified valuation specialists where material.
i Taxation aa Critical accounting judgement The Groups tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws Adjusting items and regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions The Group is required to exercise judgement in applying the adjusting in which the Group operates.
The Group is required to exercise items accounting policy to items of income and expenditure, the judgement in determining income tax provisions, along with the Group takes account of their origination, as well as considering recognition of deferred tax assets liabilities.
While the Group aims similar items in prior years to ensure consistency and appropriate to ensure that estimates recorded are accurate, the actual presentation.
See note 4 for additional information.
amounts could be different from those expected.
See note 7 for additional information.
ab IFRS standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
Effective date International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS financial year ending IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 30 April 2019 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 30 April 2019 IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 30 April 2019 Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 30 April 2019 IFRS 16 Leases 30 April 2020 IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 30 April 2020 Amendments to IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures 30 April 2020 Amendments to IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement 30 April 2020 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and related interpretations, introducing a single, principles-based approach to the recognition and measurement of revenue from all contracts with customers.
The new approach requires identification of performance obligations in a contract and revenue to be recognised when or as those performance obligations are satisfied, as well as additional disclosure.
The Group has substantially completed its review of the requirements of IFRS 15 against existing policy and practice for both timing and amount of revenue recognised, in particular considering dies, tools and moulds, variable consideration, provision of machines to customers, and the agent versus principal criteria, as well as introducing the necessary processes to capture all information required for additional disclosures required under IFRS 15.
The review concluded that timing of revenue recognition was materially consistent with the requirements of IFRS 15.
For the majority of the Groups contracts, the performance obligation is the delivery of goods, which under IFRS 15 would be recognised at a single point of time, on delivery of goods, consistent with the current accounting treatment under IAS 18.
The Group utilises customised dies, tools and moulds in both the Packaging and Plastics businesses in order to fulfil customer orders, which vary considerably in value and treatment in the customer contracts.
While some are immaterial in the context of the contract, others are of more significant value and contractually distinct and are therefore considered a separate performance obligation under IFRS 15.
Currently revenue from dies, tools and moulds is netted within operating costs, while under IFRS 15 it represents a separate performance obligation and should be included within revenue.
In addition to the IFRS 15 adjustment relating to dies, tools and moulds, energy income, historically netted within operating costs while not material, was determined to be more appropriately stated within revenue.
The Group will apply IFRS 15 with effect from 1 May 2018, with full restatement of prior periods to ensure comparability of the consolidated income statement.
The impact of applying the changes described above during the year ended 30 April 2018 would have been to increase revenue and increase operating costs by 99 million respectively with no impact on net profit and loss.
Other areas identified in the review of IFRS 15 were concluded not to have material differences to current practice.
14 98 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued ii Acquisitions 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Estimates are required to value assets and liabilities acquired z Key sources of estimates ab IFRS standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective continued in business combinations at fair value and the purchase price The application of the Groups accounting policies requires IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is allocated to assets and liabilities based on these fair values.
These estimates IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and concerns the classification, measurement and fideDetermining fair values involves the use of significant estimates and and assumptions affect the reported assets and liabilities and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces the expected credit loss model for the assessment of impairment of financial assumptions including discount rates, asset lives, customer attrition financial results of the Group.
Actual outcomes could differ from assets, introduces new classification and measurement rules for financial assets affecting the Groups other investments previously classified rates and recoverability.
as available for sale and held at fair value, and changes the hedge accounting requirements.
The Group has determined that all existing effective hedging relationships will continue to qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9.
The qualified valuation specialists where material.
Group currently intends to elect to continue to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39, as allowed under IFRS 9. i Taxation aa Critical accounting judgement The Groups tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws The Groups other investments previously classified as available for sale under IAS 39 and held at fair value will be designated on transition as Adjusting items and regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions fair value through other comprehensive income, after which the Group will record their fair value movements in other comprehensive income.
The Group is required to exercise judgement in applying the adjusting in which the Group operates.
The Group is required to exercise items accounting policy to items of income and expenditure, the The Group will adopt the simplified approach to provide for losses on receivables within the scope of IFRS 9.
A preliminary assessment based judgement in determining income tax provisions, along with the Group takes account of their origination, as well as considering on average credit loss in relation to customers by region has been undertaken and the impact of applying the expected credit loss model has recognition of deferred tax assets liabilities.
While the Group aims similar items in prior years to ensure consistency and appropriate been concluded not to be material considering the quality and short-term nature of the Groups trade receivables.
As the anticipated impact to ensure that estimates recorded are accurate, the actual presentation.
of adopting IFRS 9 is not expected to be material, the Group will not restate prior periods on adoption of IFRS 9. amounts could be different from those expected.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and prescribes a single lessee accounting model that requires the recognition of a right of use asset and corresponding liability for all leases with terms over 12 months unless the underlying asset is of low value.
The liability is initially measured ab IFRS standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective at the present value of future lease payments for the lease term.
Depreciation of right of use assets, and interest on the corresponding lease The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued new liabilities are recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
In the cash flow statement, the total amount of cash paid is separated standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
into a principal portion within financing activities and an interest portion within operating activities in the cash flow statement.
Effective date On implementation of IFRS 16 there will be a material increase in lease liabilities, along with a corresponding increase in right of use assets International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS financial year ending within property, plant and equipment.
The Groups most significant leases relate to property and production equipment and the undiscounted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 30 April 2019 commitments under non-cancellable operating leases under IAS 17 are provided in note 28 and total 210m at 30 April 2018.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 30 April 2019 IFRS 16 will be the most significant of the new accounting standards for the Group.
The Group currently expects to adopt the modified IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 30 April 2019 retrospective approach using practical expedients available, with a cumulative adjustment to equity at 1 May 2019, and as such will not Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 30 April 2019 restate comparatives.
During the year, the Groups transition work focused on collecting data in order to facilitate assessment of accounting IFRS 16 Leases 30 April 2020 impacts and transition options and the transition process will continue in 2018 19.
Under the expected transition option, discount rates at IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 30 April 2020 30 April 2019 will be utilised to calculate the transition adjustment and as such expectations of the transition impact will be able to be Amendments to IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures 30 April 2020 quantified at that time.
Amendments to IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement 30 April 2020 Other standards not yet effective IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
In particular, the Interpretation addresses whether uncertain tax treatments IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and related interpretations, introducing a single, principles-based approach to the recognition and should be considered separately or together with one or more other uncertain tax treatments, and addresses the assumptions an entity measurement of revenue from all contracts with customers.
The new approach requires identification of performance obligations in makes about the examination of tax treatments by taxation authorities.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the new Interpretation.
a contract and revenue to be recognised when or as those performance obligations are satisfied, as well as additional disclosure.
The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations that are effective for the year ending The Group has substantially completed its review of the requirements of IFRS 15 against existing policy and practice for both timing and 30 April 2019 will have a material effect on its financial statements.
amount of revenue recognised, in particular considering dies, tools and moulds, variable consideration, provision of machines to customers, and the agent versus principal criteria, as well as introducing the necessary processes to capture all information required for additional Of the standards listed above, all except for IFRIC 23, amendments to IAS 28 and amendments to IAS 19 have been endorsed by the EU.
com 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segment reporting Operating segments IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the same basis as is used internally for the review of performance and allocation of resources by the Group Chief Executive who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8.
The Groups operations are organised into six segments, five of which cover geographical regions with integrated Packaging and Paper businesses, and Plastics, which is reported separately.
These comprise the Groups reportable segments and their results are regularly reviewed by the Group Chief Executive.
The measure of profitability reported to the Group Chief Executive for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of performance is adjusted operating profit, which is a non-GAAP performance measure, about which further information is provided in note 32.
To accommodate the Groups acquisition of Interstate Resources in August 2017, an additional operating segment, North America has been added for the year ended 30 April 2018.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Central administration costs are allocated to the individual segments on a consistent basis year on year.
All assets and liabilities have been analysed by segment, except for items of a financing nature, taxation balances, employee benefit liabilities and current and non-current asset investments.
Debt and associated interest are managed at a Group level and therefore have not been allocated across the segments.
DCH and Central Total Western Northern Europe North continuing UK Europe Europe and Italy America Plastics operations Year ended 30 April 2018 Note m m m m m m m External revenue 1,078 1,450 1,083 1,429 379 346 5,765 1 Adjusted EBITDA 138 147 121 167 76 49 698 Depreciation 11 29 45 31 38 14 11 168 1 Adjusted operating profit 109 102 90 129 62 38 530 Unallocated items: Amortisation 10 93 Adjusting items in operating profit 4 76 Total operating profit continuing operations 361 Unallocated items: Net financing costs 74 Share of profit of equity accounted investments, net of tax 5 Profit before income tax 292 Income tax expense 33 Profit for the year 259 Analysis of total assets and total liabilities Segment assets 835 1,182 1,000 1,481 1,147 214 5,859 Unallocated items: Equity accounted investments and other investments 35 Derivative financial instruments 59 Cash and cash equivalents 297 Tax 79 Total assets 6,329 Segment liabilities 280 680 208 394 62 82 1,706 Unallocated items: Borrowings and accrued interest 2,035 Derivative financial instruments 59 Tax 313 Employee benefits 106 Total liabilities 4,219 Capital expenditure 64 83 60 88 32 20 347 1.
Adjusted to exclude amortisation and adjusting items.
16 100 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segment reporting continued DCH and Central Total Operating segments Western Northern Europe North continuing IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the same basis as is used internally for the review of performance UK Europe Europe and Italy America Plastics operations Year ended 30 April 2017 Note m m m m m m m and allocation of resources by the Group Chief Executive who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8.
External revenue 962 1,264 989 1,239 327 4,781 The Groups operations are organised into six segments, five of which cover geographical regions with integrated Packaging and Paper 1 Adjusted EBITDA 122 144 112 165 48 591 businesses, and Plastics, which is reported separately.
These comprise the Groups reportable segments and their results are regularly Depreciation 11 28 40 30 40 10 148 reviewed by the Group Chief Executive.
The measure of profitability reported to the Group Chief Executive for the purposes of resource 1 Adjusted operating profit 94 104 82 125 38 443 allocation and assessment of performance is adjusted operating profit, which is a non-GAAP performance measure, about which further Unallocated items: information is provided in note 32.
Amortisation 10 65 To accommodate the Groups acquisition of Interstate Resources in August 2017, an additional operating segment, North America has been Adjusting items in operating profit 4 62 added for the year ended 30 April 2018.
Total operating profit continuing operations 316 Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Central Unallocated items: administration costs are allocated to the individual segments on a consistent basis year on year.
All assets and liabilities have been analysed Net financing costs 55 by segment, except for items of a financing nature, taxation balances, employee benefit liabilities and current and non-current asset Share of profit of equity accounted investments.
investment, net of tax 3 DCH and Central Total Profit before income tax 264 Western Northern Europe North continuing Income tax expense 56 UK Europe Europe and Italy America Plastics operations Year ended 30 April 2018 Note m m m m m m m Profit for the year 208 External revenue 1,078 1,450 1,083 1,429 379 346 5,765 1 Adjusted EBITDA 138 147 121 167 76 49 698 Analysis of total assets and total liabilities Depreciation 11 29 45 31 38 14 11 168 Segment assets 823 1,062 951 1,170 215 4,221 1 Adjusted operating profit 109 102 90 129 62 38 530 Unallocated items: Unallocated items: Equity accounted investment and other Amortisation 10 93 12 investments Adjusting items in operating profit 4 76 Derivative financial instruments 32 Total operating profit continuing operations 361 Cash and cash equivalents 139 Unallocated items: Tax 89 Net financing costs 74 Total assets 4,493 Share of profit of equity accounted investments, net of tax 5 Segment liabilities 292 533 192 299 65 1,381 Profit before income tax 292 Unallocated items: Income tax expense 33 Borrowings and accrued interest 1,299 Profit for the year 259 Derivative financial instruments 24 Tax 253 Analysis of total assets and total liabilities Employee benefits 181 Segment assets 835 1,182 1,000 1,481 1,147 214 5,859 Total liabilities 3,138 Unallocated items: Equity accounted investments and Capital expenditure 53 57 38 81 15 244 other investments 35 1.
Derivative financial instruments 59 Geographical areas Cash and cash equivalents 297 In presenting information by geographical area, external revenue is based on the geographical location of customers.
Non-current assets are Tax 79 based on the geographical location of assets and exclude investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments and intangible Total assets 6,329 assets which are monitored at the operating segment level, not at a country level.
com 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Operating profit 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Operating costs Cost of sales 2,992 2,409 Other production costs 1,060 911 Distribution 403 331 Administrative expenses 827 744 5,282 4,395 Details of adjusting items included in operating profit are set out in note 4.
Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following: 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Depreciation owned assets 162 143 leased assets 6 5 Amortisation of intangible assets 93 65 Profit on sale of non-current assets 1 14 Hire of plant and machinery 25 18 Other operating lease rentals 34 28 Research and development 11 7 2018 2017 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Auditors remuneration m m m m m m Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.8 2.2 3.0 0.8 1.9 2.7 Total audit fees 0.9 2.2 3.1 0.9 1.9 2.8 Corporate finance services 1.4 1.4 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Tax and other services 0.3 0.1 0.4 Total non-audit fees 1.5 1.5 0.4 0.1 0.5 Total Auditors remuneration 2.4 2.2 4.6 1.3 2.0 3.3 Non audit fees in 2017 18 include reporting accountants fees in respect of the acquisition of Interstate Resources.
Non-audit fees do not include costs in respect of the proposed acquisition of Europac note 34 which were incurred after the year end and are estimated to be in the region of 1.2m in total.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance section and includes an explanation of how the external Auditors objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the external Auditor.
18 102 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Adjusting items 2018 2017 Items are presented as adjusting in the financial statements where they are significant items of financial performance that the Directors Continuing operations m m consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the Group.
Such items include Operating costs business disposals, restructuring and optimisation, acquisition related and integration costs, and impairments.
With effect from 1 May 2017, Cost of sales 2,992 2,409 the Group has changed the description of these items from exceptional to adjusting, to better represent their nature.
Other production costs 1,060 911 2018 2017 Distribution 403 331 Continuing operations m m Administrative expenses 827 744 Acquisition related costs 29 7 5,282 4,395 Gains on acquisitions and disposals 2 Acquisitions and disposals 29 5 Details of adjusting items included in operating profit are set out in note 4.
Integration costs 13 17 Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following: Other restructuring costs 17 26 2018 2017 Impairment of assets 1 5 Continuing operations m m Other 16 9 Depreciation owned assets 162 143 Total pre-tax adjusting items recognised in operating profit 76 62 leased assets 6 5 Finance costs adjusting items 12 Amortisation of intangible assets 93 65 Adjusting tax items 33 1 Profit on sale of non-current assets 1 14 Current tax credit on adjusting items 14 13 Hire of plant and machinery 25 18 Deferred tax credit on adjusting items 1 Other operating lease rentals 34 28 Total post-tax adjusting items 41 49 Research and development 11 7 2017 18 Acquisition related costs of 29m relate to professional advisory, legal and consultancy fees and directly attributable internal salary costs 2018 2017 relating to the review of potential deals, and deals completed during the period, including the acquisition of Interstate Resources, DPF Groupe UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Auditors remuneration m m m m m m and EcoPack and EcoPaper.
Of the total, 14m relates to the acquisition of Interstate Resources, with the most significant components being Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for audit of the Companys annual transaction and sponsor fees, legal costs, and financial and tax due diligence and advice costs.
Also included within acquisition costs is 2m for accounts 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 the year end remeasurement of fair value on the redemption liability related to the purchase of Interstate Resources.
Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other Integration costs relate to integration projects underway, primarily to achieve cost synergies from the acquisitions made in the current period services: and previous financial years of which Interstate Resources comprises 6m.
They include those directly attributable internal salary costs Audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.8 2.2 3.0 0.8 1.9 2.7 which would otherwise not be incurred.
Total audit fees 0.9 2.2 3.1 0.9 1.9 2.8 Corporate finance services 1.4 1.4 Other restructuring costs of 17m include reorganisation and restructuring in DCH and Northern Europe 4m, the UK 4m and Plastics 2m, primarily relating to completion of projects commenced in the previous year.
Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Tax and other services 0.3 0.1 0.4 Other adjusting items of 16m principally relate to significant multi-year European centralisation and optimisation projects, including the Total non-audit fees 1.5 1.5 0.4 0.1 0.5 development of a Group-wide financial ERP solution, shared service centre and major IT projects.
The costs of these programmes extend Total Auditors remuneration 2.4 2.2 4.6 1.3 2.0 3.3 over several years and as well as adjusting items include capitalisation of intangible assets, particularly in the case of the financial ERP system.
Those costs are primarily as a result of the Groups acquisition activity, which has been focused on businesses where the IT and financial Non audit fees in 2017 18 include reporting accountants fees in respect of the acquisition of Interstate Resources.
Non-audit fees do not include costs in respect of the proposed acquisition of Europac note 34 which were incurred after the year end and Finance costs adjusting items relate to financing costs incurred in the acquisition of Interstate Resources of 5m, with the remainder relating are estimated to be in the region of 1.2m in total.
to the unwind of the discount on the redemption liability related to the purchase of Interstate Resources.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance section and includes an explanation of how On 22 December 2017, the US enacted a major tax reform bill, which included, inter alia, the reduction in corporation tax rate from 35% to the external Auditors objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the external Auditor.
The revised rate has been used to revalue net deferred tax liabilities in the US, leading to a credit to profit and loss of 37m to adjusting tax items, of which the most significant element relates to the deferred tax liabilities arising on the recognition of intangibles in business combinations.
The remaining 4m debit is an increase in tax provisions in respect of tax risks in acquired businesses.
The current tax credit on adjusting items of 14m in the year ended 30 April 2018 is the tax effect at the local applicable tax rate of adjusting items that are subject to tax.
This excludes non-tax deductible deal related advisory fees in relation to acquisitions and disposals.
com 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Adjusting items continued 2016 17 Acquisition costs of 7m relate to professional advisory, legal and consultancy fees and directly attributable internal salary costs relating to the review and execution of potential deals, and deals completed during the year, including the acquisition of Creo, Deku-Pack, Gopaca, P&I Display and Parish.
Integration costs relate to integration projects underway to ensure appropriate health and safety standards are operating and to achieve cost synergies from the acquisitions made in the current year and previous financial year.
They include those directly attributable internal salary costs which would otherwise not be incurred.
The 26m other restructuring costs include reorganisation and restructuring in DCH and Northern Europe 11m, the UK 6m, Western Europe 4m and Plastics 2m.
Other adjusting items of 9m principally relate to infrastructure optimisation and efficiency projects.
The income tax credit on adjusting items includes an increase in tax provisions arising from the acquisition of a business 1m, and the tax effect at the local applicable tax rate of adjusting items that are subject to tax.
The adjusting items in the year give rise to a net income tax effect, with the exception of non-deductible deal related advisory fees in relation to acquisitions and disposals.
Finance income and costs 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Interest income from financial assets 2 1 Finance income 2 1 Interest on borrowings and overdrafts 54 46 Other 6 5 Finance costs before adjusting items 60 51 Finance costs adjusting items 12 Finance costs 72 51 6.
Personnel expenses 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Wages and salaries 949 825 Social security costs 188 169 Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 42 37 Service costs for defined benefit schemes note 24 6 5 Share-based payment expense note 25 9 10 Personnel expenses 1,194 1,046 2018 2017 Average number of employees Number Number UK 5,398 5,261 Western Europe 7,141 6,853 DCH and Northern Europe 4,906 4,701 Central Europe and Italy 8,278 8,370 USA 898 362 Rest of the World 476 127 Average number of employees 27,097 25,674 20 104 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Income tax expense 2016 17 2018 2017 m m Acquisition costs of 7m relate to professional advisory, legal and consultancy fees and directly attributable internal salary costs relating to Current tax expense the review and execution of potential deals, and deals completed during the year, including the acquisition of Creo, Deku-Pack, Gopaca, P&I Current year 106 99 Display and Parish.
Adjustment in respect of prior years 13 9 Integration costs relate to integration projects underway to ensure appropriate health and safety standards are operating and to achieve cost 93 90 synergies from the acquisitions made in the current year and previous financial year.
They include those directly attributable internal salary Deferred tax credit costs which would otherwise not be incurred.
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4 18 The 26m other restructuring costs include reorganisation and restructuring in DCH and Northern Europe 11m, the UK 6m, Western Reduction in tax rates 1 3 Europe 4m and Plastics 2m.
Adjustment in respect of prior years 10 6 Other adjusting items of 9m principally relate to infrastructure optimisation and efficiency projects.
13 21 Total income tax expense before adjusting items 80 69 The income tax credit on adjusting items includes an increase in tax provisions arising from the acquisition of a business 1m, and the tax Adjusting tax items note 4 33 1 effect at the local applicable tax rate of adjusting items that are subject to tax.
The adjusting items in the year give rise to a net income tax Current tax credit on adjusting items note 4 14 13 effect, with the exception of non-deductible deal related advisory fees in relation to acquisitions and disposals.
Deferred tax credit relating to adjusting items note 4 1 5.
Finance income and costs Total income tax expense in the income statement from continuing operations 33 56 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m The tax credit on amortisation was 24m 2016 17: 16m.
Interest income from financial assets 2 1 Finance income 2 1 The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows: Interest on borrowings and overdrafts 54 46 2018 2017 m m Other 6 5 Profit before income tax 292 264 Finance costs before adjusting items 60 51 Share of profit of equity accounted investments, net of tax 5 3 Finance costs adjusting items 12 Profit before tax and share of profit of equity accounted investments, net of tax 287 261 Finance costs 72 51 Income tax at the domestic corporation tax rate of 19.00% 2016 17: 19.92% 55 52 6.
Personnel expenses 2018 2017 Effect of additional taxes and tax rates in overseas jurisdictions 27 30 Continuing operations m m Additional items deductible for tax purposes 19 18 Wages and salaries 949 825 Non-deductible expenses 20 5 Social security costs 188 169 Non-taxable gains 1 Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 42 37 Release of prior year provisions in relation to acquired businesses 3 4 Service costs for defined benefit schemes note 24 6 5 Deferred tax not recognised 4 Share-based payment expense note 25 9 10 Foreign exchange 5 Personnel expenses 1,194 1,046 Adjustment in respect of prior years 20 11 Effect of change in corporation tax rates 36 3 2018 2017 Average number of employees Income tax expense total Group 33 56 Number Number UK 5,398 5,261 The Groups effective tax rate, excluding amortisation, adjusting items and share of result from equity accounted investments was 22.5% Western Europe 7,141 6,853 2016 17: 22.0%.
DCH and Northern Europe 4,906 4,701 Central Europe and Italy 8,278 8,370 USA 898 362 Rest of the World 476 127 Average number of employees 27,097 25,674 20 21 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Income tax expense continued Uncertain tax positions The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and is subject to uncertain tax positions and changes in legislation in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Groups uncertain tax positions principally include pricing of cross-border transactions and a limited number of specific transaction related tax risks.
The assessment of uncertain tax positions is based on managements expectation of the likely outcome of settlements with tax authorities or litigation.
The quantification of the risks at any one point in time, especially with respect to transfer pricing, requires a degree of judgement and estimation by management.
Included within the consolidated balance sheet at 30 April 2018 are current tax liabilities of 118m 30 April 2017: 120m which include a provision of 104m 30 April 2017: 95m relating to uncertain tax positions.
It is possible that amounts paid will be different from the amounts provided and the Group estimates the range of reasonably possible outcomes relating to uncertain tax positions to be from 11m to 142m.
Uncertain tax positions are generally released as statute of limitations end or specific tax enquiries are closed.
The Group estimates that transfer pricing provisions of up to 13m could reverse in the next 12 months.
Included within the current tax liabilities is an amount of 21m 30 April 2017: 18m relating to interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions.
The Group is also monitoring developments in relation to EU State Aid investigations following the EU Commission opening a State Aid investigation into the Group Financing Exemption in the UKs Controlled Foreign Company regime in October 2017.
In line with current UK tax law, the Group applies this regime.
Based on its current assessment, the Group does not consider any provision is required in relation to this issue.
Tax on other comprehensive income and equity Tax Tax credit credit Gross charge Net Gross charge Net 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Actuarial gain loss on employee benefits 57 14 43 1 3 4 Foreign currency translation differences 1 8 9 71 37 108 Movements in cash flow hedges 18 3 15 9 2 7 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investment 1 1 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 76 9 67 80 32 112 Issue of share capital 576 576 13 13 Employee share trust 4 4 6 6 Share-based payment expense 9 6 15 10 1 9 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 157 157 121 121 Other comprehensive income expense and changes in equity 500 3 497 24 31 7 22 106 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Earnings per share Uncertain tax positions Basic earnings per share from continuing operations The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and is subject to uncertain tax positions and changes in legislation in the 2018 2017 jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Groups uncertain tax positions principally include pricing of cross-border transactions and a limited Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 259m 209m number of specific transaction related tax risks.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,039m 945m Basic earnings per share 24.9p 22.1p The assessment of uncertain tax positions is based on managements expectation of the likely outcome of settlements with tax authorities or litigation.
The quantification of the risks at any one point in time, especially with respect to transfer pricing, requires a degree of judgement Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and estimation by management.
2018 2017 Included within the consolidated balance sheet at 30 April 2018 are current tax liabilities of 118m 30 April 2017: 120m which include Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 259m 209m a provision of 104m 30 April 2017: 95m relating to uncertain tax positions.
It is possible that amounts paid will be different from the Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,039m 945m amounts provided and the Group estimates the range of reasonably possible outcomes relating to uncertain tax positions to be from Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements 7m 6m 11m to 142m.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 1,046m 951m Uncertain tax positions are generally released as statute of limitations end or specific tax enquiries are closed.
The Group estimates that Diluted earnings per share 24.8p 22.0p transfer pricing provisions of up to 13m could reverse in the next 12 months.
The number of shares excludes the weighted average number of the Companys own shares held as treasury shares during the year of Included within the current tax liabilities is an amount of 21m 30 April 2017: 18m relating to interest and penalties on uncertain 1m 2016 17: 2m.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations The Group is also monitoring developments in relation to EU State Aid investigations following the EU Commission opening a State Aid Adjusted earnings per share is a key performance measure for management long-term remuneration and is widely used by the Groups investigation into the Group Financing Exemption in the UKs Controlled Foreign Company regime in October 2017.
In line with current UK shareholders.
Adjusted earnings is calculated by adding back the post-tax effects of both amortisation and adjusting items.
tax law, the Group applies this regime.
Based on its current assessment, the Group does not consider any provision is required in relation Further detail about the use of non-GAAP performance measures, including details of why amortisation is excluded, is given in note 32. to this issue.
A reconciliation of basic to adjusted earnings per share is as follows: Tax on other comprehensive income and equity Tax 2018 2017 Tax credit credit Gross charge Net Gross charge Net Basic Diluted Basic Diluted 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 pence pence pence pence m m m m m m m per share per share m per share per share Actuarial gain loss on employee benefits 57 14 43 1 3 4 Basic earnings 259 24.9p 24.8p 209 22.1p 22.0p Foreign currency translation differences 1 8 9 71 37 108 Add back: Movements in cash flow hedges 18 3 15 9 2 7 Amortisation of intangible assets 93 8.9p 8.9p 65 6.9p 6.8p Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investment 1 1 Tax credit on amortisation 24 2.3p 2.3p 16 1.7p 1.7p Other comprehensive income expense for the year 76 9 67 80 32 112 Adjusting items, before tax 88 8.5p 8.4p 62 6.6p 6.6p Issue of share capital 576 576 13 13 Tax on adjusting items and adjusting tax items 47 4.5p 4.5p 13 1.4p 1.4p Employee share trust 4 4 6 6 Adjusted earnings 369 35.5p 35.3p 307 32.5p 32.3p Share-based payment expense 9 6 15 10 1 9 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 157 157 121 121 9.
Dividends proposed and paid Other comprehensive income expense and 2018 2017 changes in equity 500 3 497 24 31 7 Pence Pence per share m per share m 2016 17 interim dividend paid 4.6p 44 2016 17 final dividend paid 10.6p 113 2017 18 interim dividend paid 4.9p 53 2017 18 final dividend proposed 9.8p see note 2018 2017 m m Paid during the year 157 121 The interim dividend in respect of 2017 18 of 4.9 pence per share 53m was paid after the year end on 1 May 2018.
The 2016 17 interim and final dividends were paid during the 2017 18 financial year.
A final dividend in respect of 2017 18 of 9.8 pence per share has been proposed by the Directors after the reporting date, payable to all shares on the record date, including those to be issued in the rights issue see note 34 a.
com 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Intangible assets Intellectual Customer Goodwill Software property related Other Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2017 782 83 28 540 69 1,502 Acquisitions 638 297 935 Additions 3 32 35 Disposals 3 3 6 Transfers 7 7 Currency translation 12 3 1 4 4 At 30 April 2018 1,408 93 29 841 95 2,466 Amortisation and impairment At 1 May 2017 27 42 19 218 18 324 Amortisation 9 2 70 12 93 Disposals 2 3 5 Currency translation 2 1 7 1 11 At 30 April 2018 27 51 22 295 28 423 Carrying amount At 1 May 2017 755 41 9 322 51 1,178 At 30 April 2018 1,381 42 7 546 67 2,043 Intellectual Customer Goodwill Software property related Other Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2016 710 50 24 483 66 1,333 Acquisitions 27 1 24 52 Additions 10 1 20 31 Adjustment related to business combinations in prior year 3 3 Disposals 5 5 Transfers 22 22 Currency translation 42 5 3 33 5 88 At 30 April 2017 782 83 28 540 69 1,502 Amortisation and impairment At 1 May 2016 26 32 15 156 15 244 Amortisation 11 2 50 2 65 Disposals 5 5 Currency translation 1 4 2 12 1 20 At 30 April 2017 27 42 19 218 18 324 Carrying amount At 1 May 2016 684 18 9 327 51 1,089 At 30 April 2017 755 41 9 322 51 1,178 24 108 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Intangible assets continued Intellectual Customer Goodwill Goodwill Software property related Other Total The CGU groups below represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and are not larger than m m m m m m the operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The carrying values of goodwill are split between the Cost CGU groups as follows: At 1 May 2017 782 83 28 540 69 1,502 Acquisitions 638 297 935 2018 2017 m m Additions 3 32 35 UK 167 167 Disposals 3 3 6 Western Europe 194 182 Transfers 7 7 DCH and Northern Europe 229 220 Currency translation 12 3 1 4 4 Central Europe and Italy 187 124 At 30 April 2018 1,408 93 29 841 95 2,466 North America 544 Amortisation and impairment Plastics 60 62 At 1 May 2017 27 42 19 218 18 324 Total goodwill 1,381 755 Amortisation 9 2 70 12 93 Disposals 2 3 5 Goodwill impairment tests key assumptions and methodology The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable Currency translation 2 1 7 1 11 amounts of the groups of CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
No impairment arose in the year ended 30 April 2018 as the At 30 April 2018 27 51 22 295 28 423 recoverable amount of the groups of CGUs, based on value-in-use calculations, exceeded the carrying amounts.
Carrying amount The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations are: At 1 May 2017 755 41 9 322 51 1,178 the cash flow forecasts have been derived from the most recent Board approved budget for the year ending 30 April 2019 and are At 30 April 2018 1,381 42 7 546 67 2,043 based upon past performance, known changes and expectations of current market conditions, taking into account the cyclical nature of the business: Intellectual Customer the sales volume and price assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts are the Directors estimates of likely future changes based upon Goodwill Software property related Other Total m m m m m m historic performance and the current economic outlooks for the economies in which the Group operates.
These are viewed as the key Cost operating assumptions as they determine the Directors approach to margin and cost maintenance: At 1 May 2016 710 50 24 483 66 1,333 the cash flow forecasts for capital expenditure are based upon past experience and include the replacement capital expenditure required to Acquisitions 27 1 24 52 generate the terminal cash flows: Additions 10 1 20 31 cash flows beyond the budgeted period 2020 and beyond have been determined using a long-term growth rate specific to each of the Adjustment related to business combinations in prior year 3 3 CGU groups based upon external sources such as the International Monetary Funds World Economic Outlook Database: and Disposals 5 5 the pre-tax adjusted discount rate is derived from the weighted average cost of capital WACC for the Group of 9.5% 2016 17: 9.5%.
The Transfers 22 22 discount rate is a function of the cost of debt and equity.
The cost of equity is largely based upon the risk free rate for 30 year German Bund Currency translation 42 5 3 33 5 88 yields 75% weighting and 30 year UK gilts 25% weighting, adjusted for the relevant country market risk premium, ranging from 0% to At 30 April 2017 782 83 28 540 69 1,502 15.5%, which reflects the increased risk of investing in country specific equities and the relative volatilities of the equity of the Group compared to the market as a whole.
This Group rate has been adjusted for the risks inherent in the countries in which the CGU group Amortisation and impairment operates that are not reflected in the cash flow projections.
At 1 May 2016 26 32 15 156 15 244 Amortisation 11 2 50 2 65 DCH and Central Western Northern Europe North Disposals 5 5 Key assumptions by CGU UK Europe Europe and Italy America Plastics Currency translation 1 4 2 12 1 20 Long-term growth rate at 30 April 2018 1.7% 1.8% 1.5% 1.7% 1.9% 2.0% At 30 April 2017 27 42 19 218 18 324 Long-term growth rate at 30 April 2017 1.7% 1.8% 1.5% 1.8% 2.0% Discount rate at 30 April 2018 9.1% 8.8% 8.6% 11.0% 8.5% 9.0% Carrying amount Discount rate at 30 April 2017 8.8% 8.7% 8.2% 11.5% 8.9% At 1 May 2016 684 18 9 327 51 1,089 Goodwill impairment tests sensitivities At 30 April 2017 755 41 9 322 51 1,178 The value-in-use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows and results in significant headroom across all CGU groups.
Whilst the Directors believe the assumptions used are realistic, it is possible that a reduction in the headroom would occur if any of the above key assumptions were adversely changed.
Factors which could cause an impairment are: significant underperformance relative to the forecast: and deteriorations in the economies in which the Group operates.
To support their assertions, the Directors have conducted sensitivity analyses to determine the impact that would result from the above situations.
Key sensitivities tested included future growth and discount rates.
In these cases, if estimates of future growth were reduced to 0% per annum, or if the estimated discount rates applied to the cash flows were increased by 1%, there would still be adequate headroom to support the carrying value of the assets.
Based on this analysis the Directors believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions detailed above would not cause the carrying value of CGU groups to exceed their recoverable amounts.
Therefore at 30 April 2018 no impairment charge is required against the carrying value of goodwill.
com 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Fixtures Under buildings equipment and fittings construction Total m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2017 772 2,254 73 162 3,261 Acquisitions 65 289 1 18 373 Additions 14 125 6 180 325 Disposals 8 96 6 5 115 Transfers 22 65 16 103 Currency translation 18 21 3 1 43 At 30 April 2018 883 2,658 93 253 3,887 Depreciation and impairment At 1 May 2017 155 1,208 32 1,395 Depreciation charge 25 136 7 168 Impairment 1 1 Disposals 7 83 6 96 Currency translation 3 19 1 23 At 30 April 2018 176 1,281 34 1,491 Carrying amount At 1 May 2017 617 1,046 41 162 1,866 At 30 April 2018 707 1,377 59 253 2,396 Land and Plant and Fixtures Under buildings equipment and fittings construction Total m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2016 693 2,013 56 157 2,919 Acquisitions 11 7 3 21 Additions 17 70 7 121 215 Adjustment related to business combinations in prior year 3 3 Disposals 15 52 3 5 75 Transfers 25 89 5 119 Currency translation 41 130 5 8 184 At 30 April 2017 772 2,254 73 162 3,261 Depreciation and impairment At 1 May 2016 136 1,079 26 1,241 Depreciation charge 22 120 6 148 Impairment 2 1 3 Disposals 14 50 2 66 Currency translation 9 58 2 69 At 30 April 2017 155 1,208 32 1,395 Carrying amount At 1 May 2016 557 934 30 157 1,678 At 30 April 2017 617 1,046 41 162 1,866 Assets under construction mainly relate to production machines and site improvements being constructed at various sites across the Group.
Carrying amount held under finance leases At 1 May 2017 6 17 1 24 At 30 April 2018 7 19 1 27 26 110 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Equity accounted investments Land and Plant and Fixtures Under 2018 2017 buildings equipment and fittings construction Total m m m m m m m At 1 May 9 4 Cost Acquisitions 12 At 1 May 2017 772 2,254 73 162 3,261 Dividends 1 Acquisitions 65 289 1 18 373 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 5 3 Additions 14 125 6 180 325 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments 1 Disposals 8 96 6 5 115 Currency translation 1 1 Transfers 22 65 16 103 At 30 April 24 9 Currency translation 18 21 3 1 43 At 30 April 2018 883 2,658 93 253 3,887 Principal equity accounted investments Depreciation and impairment Ownership interest At 1 May 2017 155 1,208 32 1,395 Principal country Nature of business of operation 2018 2017 Depreciation charge 25 136 7 168 OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Packaging Mill Paper and packaging Ukraine 49.6% 49.6% Impairment 1 1 Philcorr LLC Packaging USA 40.0% Disposals 7 83 6 96 Philcorr Vineland LLC Packaging USA 40.0% Currency translation 3 19 1 23 At 30 April 2018 176 1,281 34 1,491 The Display Connection Inc DCI Point of sale display USA 48.0% The Group accounts for its investment in Rubezhansk using the equity method as an associate because the Group has the ability to Carrying amount exercise significant influence over the investment due to the Groups equity holdings.
At 1 May 2017 617 1,046 41 162 1,866 The Group has a 40% interest in Philcorr LLC and Philcorr Vineland LLC, and a 48% interest in DCI, acquired as part of the Interstate At 30 April 2018 707 1,377 59 253 2,396 Resources acquisition.
The Group accounts for its investments in Philcorr LLC, Philcorr Vinelands LLC and DCI under the equity method of accounting because the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence over the investments due to the Groups equity holdings Land and Plant and Fixtures Under and board representation.
buildings equipment and fittings construction Total m m m m m Summary of financial information of associates Cost The financial information below is for the Groups associates on a 100% basis for the year ended 31 December.
At 1 May 2016 693 2,013 56 157 2,919 2018 2017 Acquisitions 11 7 3 21 m m Additions 17 70 7 121 215 Current assets 45 26 Adjustment related to business combinations in prior year 3 3 Non-current assets 37 40 Disposals 15 52 3 5 75 Current liabilities 20 21 Transfers 25 89 5 119 Non-current liabilities 20 17 Currency translation 41 130 5 8 184 At 30 April 2017 772 2,254 73 162 3,261 Revenue 192 108 Depreciation and impairment Profit after tax 14 6 At 1 May 2016 136 1,079 26 1,241 Other comprehensive income 1 3 Depreciation charge 22 120 6 148 Impairment 2 1 3 13.
Inventories 2018 2017 Assets under construction mainly relate to production machines and site improvements being constructed at various sites across the Group.
m m Raw materials and consumables 313 219 Work in progress 26 24 Carrying amount held under finance leases Finished goods 204 163 At 1 May 2017 6 17 1 24 543 406 At 30 April 2018 7 19 1 27 Inventory provisions at 30 April 2018 were 33m 30 April 2017: 28m.
Inventory write-offs in the year totalled 1m 2016 17: 1m.
com 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 NonNoncurrent Current current Current m m m m Trade receivables 690 628 Provisions for bad and doubtful receivables 39 37 Prepayments and accrued income 64 63 Other deposits 45 40 Other receivables 7 103 3 72 7 863 3 766 The Group has sold without recourse certain trade receivables and on realisation the receivable is fide-recognised and proceeds are presented within operating cash flows.
Of which Of which past due but not impaired neither Net carrying impaired 1 month 13 36 612 More than amount nor past due or less months months months 12 months Trade receivables m m m m m m m At 30 April 2018 651 523 78 30 11 5 4 At 30 April 2017 591 478 72 25 7 6 3 Movement in bad and doubtful receivables allowance 2018 2017 m m At 1 May 37 33 Uncollectible amounts written off 4 3 Increase in allowance recognised in the income statement 3 2 Acquisitions 1 3 Currency translation 2 2 At 30 April 39 37 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and diverse.
Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful receivables.
Trade and other payables 2018 2017 NonNoncurrent Current current Current m m m m Trade payables 1,170 1,012 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 14 535 14 346 14 1,705 14 1,358 In accordance with government initiatives to allow suppliers to receive payments earlier than contractual payment terms the Group has set up, through third parties, supply chain finance programmes.
These allow suppliers to receive, if they choose, an earlier payment whilst the Group continues to pay to the suppliers contractual terms.
Suppliers are at liberty to use them or not and these arrangements have no cost to the Group and have no effect on trade payable balances or operating cash flows.
Within non-trade payables and accrued expenses is the redemption liability arising on the acquisition of Interstate Resources and relating to a put option held by the seller, as detailed further in note 30.
The first exercise date is 1 September 2019 under the contract, and as such the redemption liability is classified within current liabilities.
The liability at 30 April 2018 is recorded at the discounted fair value of the estimated redemption amount, applying a discount rate of 9%, based on the multiple based formula using the forecast results of the Interstate Resources business, as specified in the contract.
The movements due to re-measurement in the year ended 30 April 2018 were 2m.
28 112 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Net debt 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m NonNoncurrent Current current Current Non-current liabilities 1,811 1,144 m m m m Current liabilities 162 119 Trade receivables 690 628 Derivative financial instruments 23 8 Provisions for bad and doubtful receivables 39 37 Net cash and cash equivalents 268 123 Prepayments and accrued income 64 63 Other investments restricted cash 3 Other deposits 45 40 Other deposits 45 40 Other receivables 7 103 3 72 Net debt 1,680 1,092 7 863 3 766 The movement in net debt is as follows: The Group has sold without recourse certain trade receivables and on realisation the receivable is fide-recognised and proceeds are presented Foreign within operating cash flows.
exchange, fair Continuing value and At 1 May operations non-cash At 30 April Of which 2017 cash flow Acquisitions movements 2018 Of which past due but not impaired neither m m m m m Net carrying impaired 1 month 13 36 612 More than amount nor past due or less months months months 12 months Cash and cash equivalents 139 150 4 4 297 Trade receivables m m m m m m m Overdrafts 16 11 2 29 At 30 April 2018 651 523 78 30 11 5 4 Net cash and cash equivalents 123 139 2 4 268 At 30 April 2017 591 478 72 25 7 6 3 Other investments restricted cash 3 3 Movement in bad and doubtful receivables allowance Other deposits 40 3 2 45 2018 2017 Borrowings due after one year 1,133 820 151 1,802 m m Borrowings due within one year 115 302 203 142 158 At 1 May 37 33 Finance leases 15 4 1 1 13 Uncollectible amounts written off 4 3 Derivative financial instruments Increase in allowance recognised in the income statement 3 2 assets 14 4 2 12 Acquisitions 1 3 liabilities 6 2 31 35 Currency translation 2 2 1,215 510 204 19 1,948 At 30 April 39 37 Net debt 1,092 371 202 15 1,680 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and diverse.
Net debt is a non-GAAP measure not defined by IFRS, calculated in accordance with the Groups banking covenant requirements.
Further detail Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful receivables.
on the use of non-GAAP measures is included in note 32.
Trade and other payables Derivative financial instruments above relate to forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate and cross-currency swaps used to hedge 2018 2017 the Groups borrowings and the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
The difference between the amounts shown above and the total NonNoncurrent Current current Current derivative financial instrument assets and liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position relates to derivative financial m m m m instruments that hedge forecast foreign currency transactions and the Groups purchases of energy.
Trade payables 1,170 1,012 Non-cash movements relate to amortisation of fees incurred on debt issuance and new finance leases.
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 14 535 14 346 14 1,705 14 1,358 Other deposits are included, as these short-term receivables have the characteristics of net debt.
In accordance with government initiatives to allow suppliers to receive payments earlier than contractual payment terms the Group has set up, through third parties, supply chain finance programmes.
com 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 m m Bank balances 195 135 Short-term deposits 102 4 Cash and cash equivalents consolidated statement of financial position 297 139 Bank overdrafts 29 16 Net cash and cash equivalents consolidated statement of cash flows 268 123 19.
Borrowings 2018 2017 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total m m m m m m 1 Bank and other loans 1 1 100 94 194 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.40% coupon August 2018 52 52 50 50 60m euro term loan floating EURIBOR margin December 2018 53 53 51 51 60m euro term loan floating EURIBOR margin January 2019 53 53 51 51 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.83% coupon August 2020 52 52 50 50 $380m 30 April 2017: $400m USD private placement 4.51% weighted 2 average coupon August 2019-2022 276 276 15 293 308 150m euro term loan fixed rate 0.6% coupon July 2021 132 132 126 126 500m euro medium-term note 2.25% coupon September 2022 437 437 418 418 750m euro medium-term note 1.38% coupon July 2024 656 656 250m medium-term note 2.88% coupon July 2029 248 248 Finance lease liabilities 4 9 13 4 11 15 162 1,811 1,973 119 1,144 1,263 1.
Drawings under a short-term bank revolving credit facility and other bank loans.
Swapped to fixed rate 150m and fixed rate 158m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Borrowings are unsecured and, at 30 April 2018, all measured at amortised cost.
On 26 July 2017, the Group issued two public medium-term notes in the debt capital markets.
The two issues were a seven year 1.38% 750m note and a 12 year 2.88% 250m note.
There have been no breaches of covenants during the year ended 30 April 2018 in relation to the above borrowings.
Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Expiring between two and five years 800 705 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities At 1 May Financing New finance At 30 April 2017 cash flows Acquisitions leases Fair value Other 2018 m m m m adjustments m m Bank and other loans 194 396 203 1 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 1,054 914 9 1,959 Finance lease liabilities 15 4 1 1 13 Derivative financial instruments related to hedging of financial liabilities note 17 assets 14 4 2 12 liabilities 6 2 31 35 Total liabilities from financing activities 1,255 516 204 1 29 9 1,996 Other changes include foreign exchange movements.
Financing cash flows consists of the net amount of proceeds from borrowings, repayment of borrowings, repayment of finance lease obligations and proceeds from settlement of derivative financial instruments in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Proceeds from settlement of derivative financial instruments in the consolidated statement of cash flows relate solely to derivative financial instruments used to hedge the Groups borrowings and the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
30 114 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Borrowings continued 2018 2017 The repayment profile of the Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign m m exchange contracts, is as follows: Bank balances 195 135 2018 Short-term deposits 102 4 1 year 12 25 More than or less years years 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents consolidated statement of financial position 297 139 m m m m m Bank overdrafts 29 16 Borrowings Net cash and cash equivalents consolidated statement of cash flows 268 123 Fixed rate 112 116 788 907 1,923 Floating rate 50 50 19.
Borrowings Total borrowings 162 116 788 907 1,973 2018 2017 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total 2017 m m m m m m 1 year 12 25 More than 1 Bank and other loans 1 1 100 94 194 or less years years 5 years Total m m m m m Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt Borrowings 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.40% coupon August 2018 52 52 50 50 Fixed rate 19 54 281 627 981 60m euro term loan floating EURIBOR margin December 2018 53 53 51 51 Floating rate 100 101 81 282 60m euro term loan floating EURIBOR margin January 2019 53 53 51 51 Total borrowings 119 155 362 627 1,263 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.83% coupon August 2020 52 52 50 50 $380m 30 April 2017: $400m USD private placement 4.51% weighted The Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency interest rate swaps, and forward foreign exchange contracts 2 average coupon August 2019-2022 276 276 15 293 308 are denominated in the following currencies: 150m euro term loan fixed rate 0.6% coupon July 2021 132 132 126 126 2018 500m euro medium-term note 2.25% coupon September 2022 437 437 418 418 Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total 750m euro medium-term note 1.38% coupon July 2024 656 656 m m m m m 250m medium-term note 2.88% coupon July 2029 248 248 Borrowings Finance lease liabilities 4 9 13 4 11 15 Fixed rate 392 1,474 57 1,923 162 1,811 1,973 119 1,144 1,263 Floating rate 128 172 350 50 264 1,302 350 57 1,973 1.
Net cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts 2.
Floating rate 120 101 20 27 268 Borrowings are unsecured and, at 30 April 2018, all measured at amortised cost.
Net borrowings at 30 April 2018 144 1,201 330 30 1,705 On 26 July 2017, the Group issued two public medium-term notes in the debt capital markets.
The two issues were a seven year 1.38% 750m 2017 note and a 12 year 2.88% 250m note.
Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total m m m m m There have been no breaches of covenants during the year ended 30 April 2018 in relation to the above borrowings.
Borrowings Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April were as follows: Fixed rate 156 811 14 981 2018 2017 Floating rate 12 203 35 32 282 m m 168 1,014 35 46 1,263 Expiring between two and five years 800 705 Net cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Floating rate 15 80 3 25 123 At 1 May Financing New finance At 30 April Net borrowings at 30 April 2017 153 934 32 21 1,140 2017 cash flows Acquisitions leases Fair value Other 2018 m m m m adjustments m m At 30 April 2018, 66% of the Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps, were denominated in euros in Bank and other loans 194 396 203 1 order to hedge the underlying assets of the Groups European operations 30 April 2017: 80%.
Interest rates on floating rate borrowings are Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 1,054 914 9 1,959 based on London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR, Euro Interbank Offered Rate EURIBOR or base rates.
Finance lease liabilities 15 4 1 1 13 Finance lease liabilities Derivative financial instruments related to hedging of financial liabilities note 17 2018 2017 Present assets 14 4 2 12 Future value of Future Present value liabilities 6 2 31 35 minimum minimum minimum of minimum lease lease lease lease Total liabilities from financing activities 1,255 516 204 1 29 9 1,996 payments Interest payments payments Interest payments m m m m m m Other changes include foreign exchange movements.
Less than one year 4 4 4 4 Financing cash flows consists of the net amount of proceeds from borrowings, repayment of borrowings, repayment of finance lease Between one and five years 9 9 10 10 obligations and proceeds from settlement of derivative financial instruments in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Proceeds from More than five years 1 1 settlement of derivative financial instruments in the consolidated statement of cash flows relate solely to derivative financial instruments Finance lease liabilities 13 13 15 15 used to hedge the Groups borrowings and the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA.
com 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments The Groups activities expose the Group to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business objectives.
A summary of the Groups key financial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the financial review and Principal risk sections of the strategic report.
The derivative financial instruments set out in this note have been entered into in line with the Groups risk management objectives.
The Groups treasury policy prohibits entering into speculative transactions.
a Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is the accounting classification of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and liabilities: 2018 2017 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 297 297 139 139 Available for sale other investments 11 11 3 3 Trade and other receivables 870 870 769 769 Derivative financial instruments 59 59 32 32 Total financial assets 1,237 1,237 943 943 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1,719 1,719 1,372 1,372 Bank and other loans 1 1 194 194 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 1,959 1,995 1,054 1,088 Finance lease liabilities 13 13 15 15 Bank overdrafts 29 29 16 16 Derivative financial instruments 59 59 24 24 Total financial liabilities 3,780 3,816 2,675 2,709 The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arms-length basis.
For financial instruments carried at fair value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists.
The Group uses forward prices for valuing forward foreign exchange and commodity contracts and uses valuation models with present value calculations based on market yield curves to value note purchase agreements, the medium-term note, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative financial instruments are shown at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Groups medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt are in effective cash flow and net investment hedges and are therefore held at amortised cost.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities which bear floating rates of interest are estimated to be equivalent to their carrying amounts.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires the classification of fair value measurements using the fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the assessments.
All of the Groups financial instruments are Level 2 financial instruments in accordance with the fair value hierarchy, meaning although the instruments are not traded in an active market, inputs to fair value are observable for the asset and liability, either directly i. e. quoted market prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
32 116 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued The Groups activities expose the Group to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business objectives.
b Derivative financial instruments A summary of the Groups key financial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the financial review and The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity contracts, to manage the risks Principal risk sections of the strategic report.
associated with the Groups underlying business activities and the financing of these activities.
Derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments are carried at their fair value.
The assets and liabilities of the Group at 30 April in respect of derivative financial instruments are as follows: a Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities Net 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Set out below is the accounting classification of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and liabilities: m m m m m m 2018 2017 Derivatives held to: Carrying Carrying Manage the interest rate and currency exposures on business amount Fair value amount Fair value 12 14 35 6 23 8 activities, borrowings and net investments m m m m Derivative financial instruments included in net debt 12 14 35 6 23 8 Financial assets Derivatives held to hedge future transactions: Cash and cash equivalents 297 297 139 139 Energy costs 47 18 24 18 23 Available for sale other investments 11 11 3 3 Total derivative financial instruments 59 32 59 24 8 Trade and other receivables 870 870 769 769 Derivative financial instruments 59 59 32 32 Current 44 13 24 13 20 Total financial assets 1,237 1,237 943 943 Non-current 15 19 35 11 20 8 Financial liabilities 59 32 59 24 8 Trade and other payables 1,719 1,719 1,372 1,372 Bank and other loans 1 1 194 194 c Cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 1,959 1,995 1,054 1,088 i Cash flow hedging reserve movements Finance lease liabilities 13 13 15 15 The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year.
Bank overdrafts 29 29 16 16 2018 2017 m m Derivative financial instruments 59 59 24 24 Total financial liabilities 3,780 3,816 2,675 2,709 At 1 May 22 29 Post-tax unrealised fair value loss gain on designated cash flow hedges The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arms-length basis.
For financial instruments Cross-currency interest rate swaps 21 9 carried at fair value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists.
The Group uses forward prices for Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 valuing forward foreign exchange and commodity contracts and uses valuation models with present value calculations based on market yield Commodity contracts 26 10 curves to value note purchase agreements, the medium-term note, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative financial Post-tax loss gain reclassified from equity to the income statement instruments are shown at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Cross-currency interest rate swaps 14 2 The Groups medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt are in effective cash flow and net investment hedges and are therefore held at Commodity contracts 6 4 amortised cost.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities which bear floating rates of interest are estimated to be equivalent to their At 30 April 7 22 carrying amounts.
The amounts reclassified to the income statement from the cash flow hedging reserve during the year are reflected in the following items in IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires the classification of fair value measurements using the fair value hierarchy that reflects the the income statement: significance of the inputs used in making the assessments.
2018 2017 All of the Groups financial instruments are Level 2 financial instruments in accordance with the fair value hierarchy, meaning although the m m instruments are not traded in an active market, inputs to fair value are observable for the asset and liability, either directly i. e. quoted market Cost of sales 7 5 prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Finance costs 17 3 Total pre-tax loss reclassified from equity to the income statement during the year 10 8 ii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Group holds cross-currency interest rate swap contracts as hedges of long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The pre-tax loss on the hedges recognised in equity during the year was 1m 2016 17: loss of 11m.
This loss is matched by a similar gain in equity on the retranslation of the hedged foreign subsidiary net assets resulting in a net gain of nil 2016 17: net gain of nil treated as hedge ineffectiveness in the income statement.
com 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued d Risk identification and risk management i Capital management The Group defines its managed capital as equity, as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position, and net debt note 17.
2018 2017 m m Net debt 1,680 1,092 Total equity 2,110 1,355 Managed capital 3,790 2,447 The major changes in managed capital levels are as follows: during the year, the Group issued 750m and 250m of new debt under the EMTN programme, and made a significant equity issue with proceeds of 283m, both primarily to raise funds for the Interstate Resources acquisition.
Equity was also issued as part of the consideration for both the Interstate Resources and EcoPack EcoPaper acquisitions.
Managed capital is different from capital employed defined as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, working capital, capital debtors creditors, provisions, biological assets and assets liabilities held for sale.
Managed capital relates to our sources of funding, whereas adjusted return on average capital employed is our measure of the level of return being generated by the asset base.
The Group funds its operations from the following sources of capital: operating cash flow, borrowings, shareholders equity and, where appropriate, disposals of non-core businesses.
The Groups objective is to achieve a capital structure that results in an appropriate cost of capital whilst providing flexibility in short and medium-term funding so as to accommodate significant investments or acquisitions.
The Group also aims to maintain a strong balance sheet and to provide continuity of financing by having borrowings with a range of maturities and from a variety of sources.
The Groups overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufficient funds are available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed, as described elsewhere in this note.
The Groups treasury strategy is controlled through the Balance Sheet Committee which meets every two months and includes the Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Director of Tax and Treasury.
The Group Treasury function operates in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board and is controlled by the Group Director of Tax and Treasury.
The function arranges funding for the Group, provides a service to operations and implements strategies for financial risk management.
ii Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument fluctuate because of a change in market prices.
The Group is exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as borrowings are arranged at fixed interest rates, exposing it to fair value risk, and at floating interest rates, exposing it to future cash flow risk.
The risk is managed by maintaining a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap contracts which modify the interest payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
At 30 April 2018, 97% of the Groups borrowings were at fixed rates of interest 30 April 2017: 78%.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact on profit and total equity of a 100 basis points rise in market interest rates representing managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates in all currencies in which the Group had variable-rate borrowings at 30 April 2018.
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all variable-rate external borrowings and cash deposits have been increased by 100 basis points, and the resulting increase in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of the Groups interest rate derivatives.
34 118 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued d Risk identification and risk management d Risk identification and risk management continued i Capital management ii Market risk continued The Group defines its managed capital as equity, as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position, and net debt note 17.
The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
2018 2017 2018 2017 Impact Impact m m Impact on on total Impact on on total Net debt 1,680 1,092 profit equity profit equity m m m m Total equity 2,110 1,355 Increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points 1 1 3 3 Managed capital 3,790 2,447 Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange a stream of interest payments calculated on agreed notional principal The major changes in managed capital levels are as follows: during the year, the Group issued 750m and 250m of new debt under the amounts.
At 30 April 2018, losses of 23m 30 April 2017: losses of 21m net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges of EMTN programme, and made a significant equity issue with proceeds of 283m, both primarily to raise funds for the Interstate Resources interest rate risk.
These will be reclassified to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, acquisition.
which will be during the period to 2022.
Managed capital relates to our sources of funding, Foreign exchange risk whereas adjusted return on average capital employed is our measure of the level of return being generated by the asset base.
Foreign exchange risk on investments The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in Group entities, the functional currencies of which differ from The Group funds its operations from the following sources of capital: operating cash flow, borrowings, shareholders equity and, where the Groups presentational currency, sterling.
The Group partly hedges this exposure through borrowings denominated in foreign currencies appropriate, disposals of non-core businesses.
The Groups objective is to achieve a capital structure that results in an appropriate cost of and through cross-currency swap and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Gains and losses for hedges of net investments are recognised in capital whilst providing flexibility in short and medium-term funding so as to accommodate significant investments or acquisitions.
also aims to maintain a strong balance sheet and to provide continuity of financing by having borrowings with a range of maturities and from a variety of sources.
Foreign exchange risk on borrowings The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group hedges this exposure through The Groups overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufficient funds are available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage cross-currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed, as described elsewhere in this note.
The Groups treasury strategy is controlled through the Balance Sheet Committee which meets every two months and includes the Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel and Foreign exchange risk on transactions Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Director of Tax and Treasury.
The Group Treasury function operates in Foreign currency transaction risk arises where a business unit makes product sales or purchases in a currency other than its functional accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board and is controlled by the Group Director of Tax and Treasury.
Part of this risk is hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
arranges funding for the Group, provides a service to operations and implements strategies for financial risk management.
At 30 April 2018, losses net of tax deferred in equity in respect of foreign exchange cash flow hedges were 2m 30 April 2017: nil.
ii Market risk The Groups main currency exposures are to the euro and US dollar.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument fluctuate because of a change in market prices.
2018 2017 Average Closing Average Closing Interest rate risk euro 1.132 1.137 1.179 1.184 The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as borrowings are arranged at fixed interest rates, exposing it to fair value risk, and at floating US dollar 1.356 1.373 1.285 1.294 interest rates, exposing it to future cash flow risk.
The Groups exposures The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Groups results of a 10% strengthening and weakening in the sterling exchange to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
rate against all other currencies representing managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The analysis is restricted to financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and excludes the impact of financial instruments designated At 30 April 2018, 97% of the Groups borrowings were at fixed rates of interest 30 April 2017: 78%.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the as net investment hedges.
impact on profit and total equity of a 100 basis points rise in market interest rates representing managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates in all currencies in which the Group had variable-rate borrowings at 30 April 2018.
Net investment and fair value hedges are excluded as the impact of the foreign exchange movements on these are offset by equal and opposite movements in the hedged items.
To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all variable-rate external borrowings and cash deposits have been increased by 100 basis points, and the resulting increase in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the effect of the Groups The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
2018 2017 Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total profit equity profit equity m m m m 10% strengthening of sterling 32 24 10% weakening of sterling 39 30 34 35 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued d Risk identification and risk management continued ii Market risk continued Commodity risk The Groups main commodity exposures are to changes in gas and electricity prices.
This commodity price risk is managed by a combination of physical supply agreements and derivative instruments.
At 30 April 2018, gains of 20m net of tax 2016 17: nil are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges in accordance with IAS 39 30 April 2017: losses of nil.
Any gains or losses deferred in equity will be reclassified to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will occur within three years.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase in these prices, which is managements assessment of the reasonably possible change, on average, over any given year.
A decrease of 10% in these prices would produce an opposite effect on equity.
As all of the Groups commodity financial instruments achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39, there is no impact on profit for either year.
2018 2017 Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total profit equity profit equity m m m m 10% increase in electricity prices 3 2 10% increase in gas prices 17 13 iii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due, causing financial loss to the Group.
In the current economic environment, the Group has placed increased emphasis on the management of credit risk.
The carrying amount of financial assets at 30 April 2018 was 1,237m and is analysed in note 20 a.
This represents the maximum credit risk exposure.
Credit risk on financial instruments held with financial institutions is assessed and managed by reference to the long-term credit ratings assigned to that counterparty by Standard & Poors and Moodys credit rating agencies.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
See note 15 for information on credit risk with respect to trade receivables.
iv Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, will have difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a sufficient level of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
At 30 April 2018, the Group had 800m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 30 April 2017: 705m.
The Group mitigates its refinancing risk by raising its debt requirements from a number of different sources with a range of maturities.
The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities including the effect of cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Contractual repayments 1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2018 m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1,719 1,705 14 Bank and other loans 1 1 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 1,979 157 912 910 Finance lease liabilities 13 4 9 Bank overdrafts 29 29 Interest payments on borrowings 235 37 130 68 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 3,976 1,932 1,066 978 36 120 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued d Risk identification and risk management continued d Risk identification and risk management continued ii Market risk continued iv Liquidity risk continued Contractual repayments Commodity risk 1 year 15 More than The Groups main commodity exposures are to changes in gas and electricity prices.
This commodity price risk is managed by a combination Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2017 of physical supply agreements and derivative instruments.
At 30 April 2018, gains of 20m net of tax 2016 17: nil are deferred in equity in m m m m respect of cash flow hedges in accordance with IAS 39 30 April 2017: losses of nil.
Any gains or losses deferred in equity will be reclassified Non-derivative financial liabilities to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will occur within three years.
Trade and other payables 1,372 1,358 14 Bank and other loans 197 100 97 The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase in these prices, which is managements assessment of the reasonably Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 1,050 15 412 623 possible change, on average, over any given year.
As all of Finance lease liabilities 15 4 10 1 the Groups commodity financial instruments achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39, there is no impact on profit for either year.
Bank overdrafts 16 16 The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
Interest payments on borrowings 120 25 82 13 2018 2017 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 2,770 1,518 615 637 Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total Refer to note 28 for an analysis of the Groups future operating lease payments and to note 29 for a summary of the Groups profit equity profit equity capital commitments.
m m m m 10% increase in electricity prices 3 2 The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of derivative financial instruments excluding interest payments 10% increase in gas prices 17 13 and receipts.
Where the payable and receivable legs of these derivatives are denominated in foreign currencies, the contractual payments or receipts have been calculated based on exchange rates prevailing at the respective year ends.
iii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due, causing financial Where applicable, interest and foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date are assumed to remain constant over the future loss to the Group.
amount of financial assets at 30 April 2018 was 1,237m and is analysed in note 20 a.
Contractual payments receipts Credit risk on financial instruments held with financial institutions is assessed and managed by reference to the long-term credit ratings 1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years assigned to that counterparty by Standard & Poors and Moodys credit rating agencies.
At 30 April 2018 m m m m See note 15 for information on credit risk with respect to trade receivables.
Derivative financial liabilities Energy derivatives 24 18 6 iv Liquidity risk Interest rate and currency swaps: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, will have difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as Payments 1,327 743 584 they fall due.
Receipts 1,313 740 573 The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a sufficient level of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
At 30 April 2018, the Group Total net derivative financial assets liabilities 10 15 5 had 800m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 30 April 2017: 705m.
Contractual payments receipts The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities including the effect of cross-currency 1 year 15 More than interest rate swaps.
or less years 5 years Total At 30 April 2017 m m m m Contractual repayments Derivative financial liabilities 1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years Energy derivatives At 30 April 2018 m m m m Interest rate and currency swaps: Non-derivative financial liabilities Payments 492 74 86 332 Trade and other payables 1,719 1,705 14 Receipts 502 74 90 338 Bank and other loans 1 1 Total net derivative financial assets liabilities 10 4 6 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 1,979 157 912 910 Finance lease liabilities 13 4 9 Bank overdrafts 29 29 Interest payments on borrowings 235 37 130 68 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 3,976 1,932 1,066 978 36 37 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Analysis of movements in recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year Property, plant and equipment and intangible Employee benefits Tax assets including pensions losses Other Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m m m m m At 1 May 169 158 51 53 63 39 1 17 54 83 Acquired 120 4 1 119 4 Credit charge for the year 66 10 4 2 12 14 50 22 Recognised directly in equity 8 2 8 3 16 11 22 Currency translation 2 17 1 2 2 2 3 11 At 30 April 221 169 41 51 51 63 2 1 131 54 At 30 April 2018, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill: except on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax liabilities 195 133 Deferred tax assets 64 79 Net deferred tax 131 54 The deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses at 30 April 2018 includes an asset in the UK of 31m 30 April 2017: 36m.
The asset is recognised based on additional interest income that will arise in the UK from the financing of acquisitions.
The asset is expected to be fully recovered over the next five years.
The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of 20m 30 April 2017: 19m.
These losses do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise these benefits.
38 122 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 22.
Provisions Restructuring Other Total Analysis of movements in recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year m m m Property, plant and equipment and intangible Employee benefits Tax At 1 May 2017 18 11 29 assets including pensions losses Other Total Acquisitions 4 4 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m m m m m Charged to income 17 17 At 1 May 169 158 51 53 63 39 1 17 54 83 Credited to income 1 1 Acquired 120 4 1 119 4 Utilised 27 2 29 Credit charge for the year 66 10 4 2 12 14 50 22 At 30 April 2018 8 12 20 Recognised directly in equity 8 2 8 3 16 11 22 Currency translation 2 17 1 2 2 2 3 11 Non-current 4 4 At 30 April 221 169 41 51 51 63 2 1 131 54 Current 8 8 16 8 12 20 At 30 April 2018, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised for all taxable temporary differences: The restructuring provision includes amounts associated with the site closures and restructuring costs described in note 4.
Other provisions except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill: mainly relate to environmental and restoration liabilities, indemnities and liabilities related to litigations.
The timing of the utilisation of these except on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, provisions is uncertain, except where the associated costs are contractual, in which case the provision is utilised over the time period specified affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss: and in the contract.
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that temporary differences will not reverse in 23.
Capital and reserves the foreseeable future.
Share capital Number of shares Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the millions millions m m deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each: 2018 2017 Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 1,075 951 107 95 m m Deferred tax liabilities 195 133 During the year ended 30 April 2018, 1,619,350 ordinary shares were issued as a result of exercises of employee share options.
A placing on Deferred tax assets 64 79 29 June 2018 connected with the acquisition of Interstate Resources comprised an issue of 62,637,363 ordinary shares.
The gross proceeds from issue of share capital were 288m.
The related transaction costs amounting to 5m have been netted against proceeds.
Net deferred tax 131 54 Additionally, 52,474,156 ordinary shares were issued to the seller of Interstate Resources, and 6,492,411 ordinary shares were issued to the The deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses at 30 April 2018 includes an asset in the UK of 31m 30 April 2017: 36m.
The asset is sellers of EcoPack EcoPaper during the year.
recognised based on additional interest income that will arise in the UK from the financing of acquisitions.
The net movements in share capital and share premium are disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
These losses do not expire under The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable meetings of the Company.
In respect of the Companys shares that are held by the Group, all rights are suspended until those shares profit will be available against which the Group can utilise these benefits.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Share premium The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.
Own shares The reserve for the Companys own shares comprises the cost of the Companys shares held by the Group.
The Group operates a General Employee Benefit Trust, which acquires shares in the Company that can be used to satisfy the requirements of the performance share plan and the share matching plan.
At 30 April 2018, the Trust held 0.4m shares 30 April 2017: 2.0m shares.
The market value of the shares at 30 April 2018 was 2.0m 30 April 2017: 6.7m.
Dividends receivable on the shares owned by the Trust have been waived.
Non-controlling interests The Group has various put options in relation to subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
The Group records a liability at the net present value of the expected future payments, with a corresponding entry against non-controlling interests in respect of the non-controlling shareholders put option, measured at fair value.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes recorded within finance costs through the income statement and then transferred out of retained earnings into non-controlling interests.
Retained earnings Retained earnings includes a merger relief reserve related to the shares issued in consideration to the sellers of EcoPack EcoPaper.
The closing balance of this reserve is 32m.
com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Employee benefits Total UK Overseas 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Balance sheet m m m m m m Present value of post-retirement obligations 1,186 1,277 1,029 1,133 157 144 Fair value of plan assets Equities multi-strategy 322 294 303 281 19 13 Debt instruments 228 165 195 134 33 31 Derivatives 522 506 520 506 2 Real estate 3 3 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 5 3 4 2 1 1 Other 6 128 128 6 1,086 1,099 1,022 1,051 64 48 Net post-retirement plan deficit 100 178 7 82 93 96 Other employee benefit liabilities 6 3 6 3 Total employee benefit deficit 106 181 7 82 99 99 Related deferred tax asset 26 42 1 14 25 28 Net employee benefit deficit 80 139 6 68 74 71 Employee benefit schemes At 30 April 2018, the Group operated a number of employee benefit arrangements for the benefit of its employees throughout the world.
The plans are provided through both defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements and their legal status and control vary depending on the conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
Pension scheme trustees and representatives of the Group work with those managing the employee benefit arrangements to monitor the effects on the arrangements of changes in financial markets and the impact of uncertainty in assumptions, and to develop strategies that could mitigate the risks to which these employee benefit schemes expose the Group.
UK schemes The DS Smith Group Pension Scheme the Group Scheme is a UK funded final salary defined benefit scheme providing pensions and lump sum benefits to members and dependants.
The Group Scheme closed to future accrual from 30 April 2011 with pensions calculated based on pensionable salaries up to the point of closure or the date of leaving the Group Scheme, if earlier.
The Group Scheme has a normal retirement age of 65 although some members are able to take their benefits earlier than this.
Increases to pensions are affected by changes in the rate of inflation for the majority of members.
The Group Scheme is governed by a Trustee Company DS Smith Pension Trustees Limited, which is comprised of a Board of Trustee Directors the Trustee Board and is independent of the Group.
The Trustee Board is responsible for managing the operation, funding and investment strategy of the Group Scheme.
UK legislation requires the Trustee Board to carry out actuarial funding valuations at least every three years and to target full funding over an appropriate period of time, taking into account the current circumstances of the Group Scheme and the Group on a basis that prudently reflects the risks to which the Group Scheme is exposed the Technical Provisions basis.
The most recent funding valuation was carried out as at 30 April 2016, following which a deficit recovery plan was agreed with the Trustee Board on 28 April 2017.
The Group has agreed to increase existing cash contributions by 10% per annum, commencing with the current year back-dated to the beginning of the year.
The planned contribution for 2016 17 was, therefore, increased from 16m to 17.6m.
The contribution for the year ended 30 April 2018 under the plan is 18.3m.
The recovery plan is expected to be completed on or around November 2025.
The Trustee Board and the Group have in place a secondary Long-Term Funding Target the LTFT, in addition to the statutory funding requirement, the purpose of which is to achieve material additional security for the Group Schemes members.
The objective of the LTFT is for the Group Scheme to be funded by 30 April 2035 to a level that does not expect to rely on future contributions from the Group.
In order to manage risk, the Group Schemes investment strategy is designed to closely align movements in the Group Schemes assets to that of its liabilities, whilst maintaining an appropriate level of expected return.
To do this, the Scheme has hedged its inflation and interest rate risk exposure on a Technical Provisions basis.
To help the Trustee Board to monitor, review and assess investment matters, the Investment and Funding Committee the IFC, which consists of representatives from the Trustee Board and the Group, meets on a quarterly basis throughout the year.
The Group Scheme exposes the Group to risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and investment risk.
As the Group Schemes obligation is to provide lifetime pension benefits to members upon retirement, increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the Group Schemes liabilities.
Other assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation are also uncertain.
The largest defined contribution arrangement operated by the Group is in the UK.
The UK defined contribution scheme is a trust-based arrangement offering members a range of investments.
All assets are held independently from the Group.
The Group also operates a small unfunded arrangement in the UK.
40 124 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Employee benefits continued Total UK Overseas Overseas schemes 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 The countries where the Group operates the most significant defined benefit post-retirement arrangements are: Balance sheet m m m m m m France various mandatory retirement indemnities, post-retirement medical plans and jubilee arrangements benefits paid to Present value of post-retirement obligations 1,186 1,277 1,029 1,133 157 144 employees after completion of a certain number of years of service the majority of which are determined by the applicable Collective Bargaining Agreement: Fair value of plan assets Belgium liabilities with respect to non-contributory defined benefit and cash balance retirement plans, as well as unfunded jubilee Equities multi-strategy 322 294 303 281 19 13 arrangements.
The defined benefit plan is closed to new employees, although active members continue to accrue benefits: Debt instruments 228 165 195 134 33 31 Derivatives 522 506 520 506 2 Switzerland a contributory defined benefit pension scheme providing pensions and lump sum benefits to members and dependants: Real estate 3 3 3 3 Italy mandatory end-of-service lump sum benefits in respect of pre-2007 service: and Cash and cash equivalents 5 3 4 2 1 1 Germany jubilee arrangements and non-contributory defined benefit pension schemes.
Other 6 128 128 6 In general, local trustees or similar bodies manage the post-retirement and medical plans in accordance with local regulations.
1,086 1,099 1,022 1,051 64 48 Net post-retirement plan deficit 100 178 7 82 93 96 Overseas schemes expose the Group to risks such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk, investment risk, life expectancy risk and healthcare cost risk.
Actions taken by the local regulator, or changes to legislation, could result in stronger local funding Other employee benefit liabilities 6 3 6 3 requirements for pension schemes, which could affect the Groups future cash flow.
Total employee benefit deficit 106 181 7 82 99 99 Related deferred tax asset 26 42 1 14 25 28 Movements in the liability for employee benefit plans obligations recognised in the consolidated statement Net employee benefit deficit 80 139 6 68 74 71 of financial position 2018 2017 Employee benefit schemes m m At 30 April 2018, the Group operated a number of employee benefit arrangements for the benefit of its employees throughout the world.
The Schemes liabilities at 1 May 1,280 1,145 plans are provided through both defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements and their legal status and control vary depending on Acquisitions 32 the conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
Interest cost 30 36 Service cost recognised in the consolidated income statement 6 5 Pension scheme trustees and representatives of the Group work with those managing the employee benefit arrangements to monitor the Member contributions 1 1 effects on the arrangements of changes in financial markets and the impact of uncertainty in assumptions, and to develop strategies that could mitigate the risks to which these employee benefit schemes expose the Group.
Settlement curtailment 19 Pension payments 49 48 UK schemes Unfunded benefits paid 7 7 The DS Smith Group Pension Scheme the Group Scheme is a UK funded final salary defined benefit scheme providing pensions and lump Actuarial gains losses financial assumptions 89 217 sum benefits to members and dependants.
The Group Scheme closed to future accrual from 30 April 2011 with pensions calculated based on Actuarial losses gains experience 8 56 pensionable salaries up to the point of closure or the date of leaving the Group Scheme, if earlier.
The Group Scheme has a normal retirement Actuarial gains demographic 4 22 age of 65 although some members are able to take their benefits earlier than this.
Currency translation 3 10 Reclassification 1 The Group Scheme is governed by a Trustee Company DS Smith Pension Trustees Limited, which is comprised of a Board of Trustee Schemes liabilities at 30 April 1,192 1,280 Directors the Trustee Board and is independent of the Group.
Movements in the fair value of employee benefit plans assets recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position UK legislation requires the Trustee Board to carry out actuarial funding valuations at least every three years and to target full funding over 2018 2017 an appropriate period of time, taking into account the current circumstances of the Group Scheme and the Group on a basis that prudently m m reflects the risks to which the Group Scheme is exposed the Technical Provisions basis.
The most recent funding valuation was carried out Schemes assets at 1 May 1,099 957 as at 30 April 2016, following which a deficit recovery plan was agreed with the Trustee Board on 28 April 2017.
The Group has agreed to Acquisitions 24 increase existing cash contributions by 10% per annum, commencing with the current year back-dated to the beginning of the year.
The Employer contributions 25 17 planned contribution for 2016 17 was, therefore, increased from 16m to 17.6m.
The contribution for the year ended 30 April 2018 under Member contributions 1 1 the plan is 18.3m.
Other contributions 6 The Trustee Board and the Group have in place a secondary Long-Term Funding Target the LTFT, in addition to the statutory funding Settlement curtailment 19 requirement, the purpose of which is to achieve material additional security for the Group Schemes members.
The objective of the LTFT Interest income 27 32 is for the Group Scheme to be funded by 30 April 2035 to a level that does not expect to rely on future contributions from the Group.
Actuarial losses gains 28 138 In order to manage risk, the Group Schemes investment strategy is designed to closely align movements in the Group Schemes assets to that Pension payments 49 48 of its liabilities, whilst maintaining an appropriate level of expected return.
To do this, the Scheme has hedged its inflation and interest rate risk Currency translation 2 exposure on a Technical Provisions basis.
To help the Trustee Board to monitor, review and assess investment matters, the Investment and Schemes assets at 30 April 1,086 1,099 Funding Committee the IFC, which consists of representatives from the Trustee Board and the Group, meets on a quarterly basis throughout the year.
com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Employee benefits continued Durations and expected payment profile The following table provides information on the distribution of the timing of expected benefit payments for the Group Scheme: Within 5 6 to 10 11 to 20 21 to 30 31 to 40 41 to 50 Over 50 years years years years years years years At 30 April 2018 m m m m m m m Projected benefit payments 197 233 502 400 248 104 25 The weighted average duration for the Group Scheme is 16 years.
The Group made agreed contributions of 20m to the Group Scheme in 2017 18 2016 17: 16m.
The Groups current best estimate of contributions expected to be made to the Group Scheme in the year ending 30 April 2019 is approximately 19m.
A charge over four UK Packaging properties has been made as security for the unfunded arrangement in the UK, the liability for which totals 7m.
Significant actuarial assumptions Principal actuarial assumptions for the Group Scheme are as follows: 2018 2017 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.8% 2.5% Inflation 2.0% 2.2% Pre-retirement pension increases 2.0% 2.2% Future pension increases for pre 30 April 2005 service 2.0% 2.2% Future pension increases for post 30 April 2005 service 1.5% 1.8% For other overseas arrangements, the weighted average actuarial assumptions are a discount rate of 1.4% 30 April 2017: 1.5% and an inflation rate of 1.8% 30 April 2017: 1.8%.
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on actuarial advice and in accordance with the relevant standard mortality tables in each country.
For the Group Scheme at 30 April 2018, the mortality base table used is S2PA year of birth, with CMI 2017 projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used for future longevity improvement.
At 30 April 2017 the mortality base table used was S2PA year of birth, with CMI 2016 projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used for future longevity improvement.
As part of the Group Scheme actuarial valuation exercise the projected life expectancies were as follows: 2018 2017 Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 Member currently aged 65 21.0 23.2 21.2 23.2 Member currently aged 45 22.0 24.9 22.1 25.0 Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the liabilities in the Group Scheme to each significant actuarial assumption is summarised in the following table, showing the impact on the defined benefit obligation if each assumption is altered by the amount specified in isolation, whilst assuming that all other variables remain the same.
In practice, this approach is not necessarily realistic since some assumptions are related.
This sensitivity analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability, the measurement of which depends on a number of factors including the fair value of plan assets.
Increase in pension liability m 0.5% decrease in discount rate 86 0.5% increase in inflation 59 1 year increase in life expectancy 34 42 126 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Employee benefits continued Durations and expected payment profile Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement The following table provides information on the distribution of the timing of expected benefit payments for the Group Scheme: Total Within 5 6 to 10 11 to 20 21 to 30 31 to 40 41 to 50 Over 50 2018 2017 years years years years years years years m m At 30 April 2018 m m m m m m m Post-retirement benefits current service cost 6 5 Projected benefit payments 197 233 502 400 248 104 25 Total service cost 6 5 The weighted average duration for the Group Scheme is 16 years.
Net interest cost on net pension liability 3 4 Pension Protection Fund levy 1 1 The Group made agreed contributions of 20m to the Group Scheme in 2017 18 2016 17: 16m.
The Groups current best estimate of Employment benefit net finance expense 4 5 contributions expected to be made to the Group Scheme in the year ending 30 April 2019 is approximately 19m.
Total expense recognised in the consolidated income statement 10 10 Significant actuarial assumptions Items recognised in other comprehensive income expense Principal actuarial assumptions for the Group Scheme are as follows: Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation 85 139 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in employment benefit net finance expense 28 138 2018 2017 Total gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income expense 57 1 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.8% 2.5% Inflation 2.0% 2.2% 25.
Share-based payment expense Pre-retirement pension increases 2.0% 2.2% The Groups share-based payment arrangements are as follows: Future pension increases for pre 30 April 2005 service 2.0% 2.2% Future pension increases for post 30 April 2005 service 1.5% 1.8% i A performance share plan PSP.
Awards under the PSP normally become exercisable after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
Awards have For other overseas arrangements, the weighted average actuarial assumptions are a discount rate of 1.4% 30 April 2017: 1.5% and an been made under the PSP annually since 2008, originally based on the following performance measures, in the proportions shown below: inflation rate of 1.8% 30 April 2017: 1.8%.
i. the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared to the constituents of the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on actuarial advice and in accordance with the relevant standard mortality the FTSE 250: tables in each country.
For the Group Scheme at 30 April 2018, the mortality base table used is S2PA year of birth, with CMI 2017 projections ii.
average adjusted earnings per share EPS : and with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used for future longevity improvement.
At 30 April 2017 the mortality base table used was S2PA year of birth, with CMI 2016 projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used for future longevity iii.
average adjusted return on average capital employed ROACE.
As part of the Group Scheme actuarial valuation exercise the projected life expectancies were as follows: Awards between 2010 and 2014 are subject to three performance measures: 2018 2017 i.
50% of each award based on a TSR component: Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 ii.
25% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and Member currently aged 65 21.0 23.2 21.2 23.2 iii.
25% of each award based on average adjusted ROACE.
Member currently aged 45 22.0 24.9 22.1 25.0 Awards made between 2015 and 2016 are subject to three performance measures: Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the liabilities in the Group Scheme to each significant actuarial assumption is summarised in the following table, showing i.
33.3% of each award based on a TSR component: the impact on the defined benefit obligation if each assumption is altered by the amount specified in isolation, whilst assuming that all other ii.
33.3% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and variables remain the same.
This sensitivity analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability, the measurement of which depends on a iii.
33.3% of each award based on average adjusted ROACE.
number of factors including the fair value of plan assets.
Awards made in 2017 are subject to either two performance measures, or to three performance measures: Increase in pension liability a Three performance measures: m i.
33.3% of each award based on a TSR component: 0.5% decrease in discount rate 86 0.5% increase in inflation 59 ii.
33.3% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and 1 year increase in life expectancy 34 iii.
50% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and ii.
50% of each award based on average adjusted ROACE.
The 2013 and 2014 awards have vested, but have not yet been fully exercised.
ii A deferred share bonus plan DSBP is operated for Executive Directors and, from 2012 13, for senior executives.
Shares awarded under the Plan will vest automatically if the Director or senior executive is still employed by the Company three years after the grant of the award.
The 2012, 2013 and 2014 awards have vested, but have not yet been fully exercised.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share-based payment expense continued iii A share matching plan SMP is operated for Executive Directors and senior executives with the first award made in 2012 13.
The award will vest after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
The performance conditions of the award are based 50% on average adjusted EPS and 50% on average adjusted ROACE.
No further awards under this Plan will be made subsequent to the 2014 15 award granted in July 2014.
All awards have vested, and have been fully exercised.
iv A long-term incentive plan LTIP is operated for selected senior managers with the first award made in 2013 14.
The last award under this Plan was the 2016 17 award granted in July 2016. v An international sharesave plan was introduced in January 2014 with further invitations being made in January 2016, January 2017 and January 2018.
All employees of the Company and participating subsidiaries were eligible to participate in this plan.
Under this HMRC approved plan, options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to a maximum of 250 or local currency equivalent across all open invitations per month over a period of three years at a discount of up to 20% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc ordinary share on the three dealing days prior to invitation.
Options cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of three years has elapsed.
In common with most plans of this type there are no performance conditions applicable to options granted under this plan.
The provisions of this plan are subject to minor country specific variances.
A standard US stock purchase plan, which received shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, was also introduced in January 2014 and subsequent invitations were made in 2016, 2017 and 2018.
US employees of the Group are eligible to participate in this plan.
Options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to $405 per month over a period of two years at a discount of up to 15% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc ordinary share on the day before grant.
Options cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of two years has elapsed.
Full details of the awards described in i, ii, iii and v are set out in the Remuneration Committee report.
Options outstanding and exercisable under share arrangements at 30 April 2018 were: Options outstanding Options exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Number Option price contract life exercise Number exercise of shares range p years price p exercisable price p Performance share plan 6,014,273 Nil 1.1 Nil 588,584 Nil Deferred Share Bonus Plan 1,161,278 Nil 0.9 Nil 165,221 Nil Share Matching Plan Nil Nil Nil Sharesave Plan 9,751,212 269.0-412.0 2.0 343.7 64,296 269.0 Options outstanding Options exercisable Weighted average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Option price contract life exercise Value exercise Value range p years price p exercisable price p Long-term incentive plan 3,158,096 Nil 0.8 Nil Nil Nil The effect on earnings per share of potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements is shown in note 8.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Performance Deferred share Share matching Sharesave Long-term share plan bonus plan plan plan incentive plan Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2018 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s At 1 May 2017 Nil 5,468 Nil 1,481 Nil 508 314.1 9,135 Nil 4,717 Granted Nil 2,424 Nil 248 Nil 412.0 2,436 Nil Exercised Nil 1,554 Nil 538 Nil 494 270.6 1,234 Nil 1,011 Lapsed Nil 324 Nil 30 Nil 14 319.4 586 Nil 548 At 30 April 2018 Nil 6,014 Nil 1,161 Nil 343.7 9,751 Nil 3,158 Exercisable at 30 April 2018 Nil 589 Nil 165 Nil 269.0 64 Nil 44 128 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share-based payment expense continued Performance Deferred share Share matching Sharesave Long-term iii A share matching plan SMP is operated for Executive Directors and senior executives with the first award made in 2012 13.
The award share plan bonus plan plan plan incentive plan will vest after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted years commencing with the year of grant.
The performance conditions of the award are based 50% on average adjusted EPS and 50% on average average average average average exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options average adjusted ROACE.
2017 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s At 1 May 2016 Nil 6,206 Nil 1,451 Nil 837 280.4 9,269 Nil 4,722 All awards have vested, and have been fully exercised.
Granted Nil 1,909 Nil 463 Nil 333.0 4,976 Nil 1,554 iv A long-term incentive plan LTIP is operated for selected senior managers with the first award made in 2013 14.
The award will vest Exercised Nil 2,192 Nil 427 Nil 291 269.1 4,497 Nil 1,335 after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years Lapsed Nil 455 Nil 6 Nil 38 288.8 613 Nil 224 commencing with the year of grant.
The performance conditions of the award are based 50% on average adjusted EPS and 50% on At 30 April 2017 Nil 5,468 Nil 1,481 Nil 508 314.1 9,135 Nil 4,717 average adjusted ROACE.
The last award under this Plan was the 2016 17 award granted in July 2016.
Exercisable at v An international sharesave plan was introduced in January 2014 with further invitations being made in January 2016, January 2017 30 April 2017 Nil 263 Nil 123 Nil 91 269.0 1,298 Nil and January 2018.
Under this HMRC The average share price of the Company during the financial year was 489.9 pence 2016 17: 409.6 pence.
approved plan, options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to a maximum of 250 or local currency equivalent across all open invitations per month over a period of three years at a discount of up to 20% to the average closing mid-market price of a The fair value of awards granted in the period relates to the PSP and DSBP schemes.
DS Smith Plc ordinary share on the three dealing days prior to invitation.
In common with most plans of this type there are no performance conditions applicable to options granted under The fair value of the PSP award granted during the year, determined using the stochastic valuation model, was 8m.
The significant inputs this plan.
A standard US stock purchase plan, which received into the model were: a share price of 478.0p for the PSP at the grant date: the exercise prices shown above: an expected volatility of the share shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, was also introduced in January 2014 and subsequent invitations were made in 2016, 2017 and price of 22.51% for Executive Directors and 23.94% for all other participants: the scheme life disclosed above: a risk-free interest rate of 2018.
Options are granted to participants who have contracted to save 0.47% for Executive Directors and 0.26% for all other participants, and an expected dividend yield of nil.
The volatility of share price returns up to $405 per month over a period of two years at a discount of up to 15% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc is calculated over the period of time commensurate with the remainder of the performance period immediately prior to the date of grant.
ordinary share on the day before grant.
The total charge for the year relating to share-based payments recognised as personnel expenses was 9m 2016 17: 10m.
Cash generated from operations Options outstanding and exercisable under share arrangements at 30 April 2018 were: 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Options outstanding Options exercisable Profit for the year 259 208 Weighted Adjustments for: average Weighted Weighted remaining average average Pre-tax integration costs and other adjusting items 47 57 Number Option price contract life exercise Number exercise of shares range p years price p exercisable price p Amortisation of intangible assets and acquisitions and disposals 122 70 Performance share plan 6,014,273 Nil 1.1 Nil 588,584 Nil Cash outflow for adjusting items 80 66 Deferred Share Bonus Plan 1,161,278 Nil 0.9 Nil 165,221 Nil Depreciation 168 148 Share Matching Plan Nil Nil Nil Profit on sale of non-current assets 1 14 Sharesave Plan 9,751,212 269.0-412.0 2.0 343.7 64,296 269.0 Share of profit of equity accounted investments, net of tax 5 3 Employment benefit net finance expense 4 5 Options outstanding Options exercisable Share-based payment expense 9 10 Weighted average Weighted Weighted Finance income 2 1 remaining average average Option price contract life exercise Value exercise Finance costs 72 51 Value range p years price p exercisable price p Other non-cash items 2 9 Long-term incentive plan 3,158,096 Nil 0.8 Nil Nil Nil Income tax expense 33 56 The effect on earnings per share of potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements is shown in note 8.
Change in provisions 9 6 Change in employee benefits 27 19 Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Cash generation before working capital movement 592 505 Performance Deferred share Share matching Sharesave Long-term Changes in: share plan bonus plan plan plan incentive plan Inventories 82 49 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average Trade and other receivables 19 10 exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2018 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s Trade and other payables 85 163 At 1 May 2017 Nil 5,468 Nil 1,481 Nil 508 314.1 9,135 Nil 4,717 Working capital movement 16 124 Granted Nil 2,424 Nil 248 Nil 412.0 2,436 Nil Cash generated from continuing operations 576 629 Exercised Nil 1,554 Nil 538 Nil 494 270.6 1,234 Nil 1,011 Lapsed Nil 324 Nil 30 Nil 14 319.4 586 Nil 548 At 30 April 2018 Nil 6,014 Nil 1,161 Nil 343.7 9,751 Nil 3,158 Exercisable at 30 April 2018 Nil 589 Nil 165 Nil 269.0 64 Nil 44 45 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2018 2017 m m Profit for the year 259 208 Income tax expense 33 56 Share of profit of equity accounted investments, net of tax 5 3 Net financing costs 74 55 Amortisation 93 65 Adjusting items 76 62 Operating profit before amortisation and adjusting items 530 443 Depreciation 168 148 Adjusted EBITDA 698 591 Working capital movement 16 124 Change in provisions 9 6 Change in employee benefits 27 19 Other 10 5 Cash generated from operations before adjusting cash items 656 695 Capital expenditure 347 244 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other investments 18 18 Tax paid 82 61 Net interest paid 41 45 Free cash flow 204 363 Cash outflow for adjusting items 80 66 Dividends paid 157 121 Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 615 71 Other 4 Net cash flow 652 105 Proceeds from issue of share capital 283 13 Borrowings acquired 204 14 Net movement on debt 573 104 Foreign exchange, fair value and other non-cash movements note 17 15 97 Net debt movement continuing operations 588 7 Opening net debt 1,092 1,099 Closing net debt 1,680 1,092 Adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow, and net debt are non-GAAP measures not defined by IFRS.
Further detail on the use of non-GAAP measures is included in note 32.
Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2018 2017 m m Less than one year 49 27 Between one and five years 111 64 More than five years 50 39 210 130 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for various properties, machines, vehicles and office equipment.
Capital commitments and contingencies At 30 April 2018, the Group had committed to incur capital expenditure of 56m 30 April 2017: 18m.
The Group is not subject to a material litigation, but has a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the ordinary course of business on behalf of trading subsidiaries including, inter alia, intellectual property disputes and regulatory enquiries in areas such as health and safety, environmental, and anti-trust.
No losses are anticipated to arise on these contingent liabilities.
As a result of previous acquisitions, various contingent liabilities were identified and included within provisions, as required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Whilst it is difficult to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of these claims, the Directors best estimate has been updated and included in the closing provision balance at 30 April 2018.
46 130 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 30.
Acquisitions and disposals 2018 2017 a Acquisition of Interstate Resources m m On 29 June 2017, the Group entered into a conditional agreement to acquire an 80% interest in Indevco Management Resources Inc. IMRI, Profit for the year 259 208 the owner of Interstate Resources Inc. Interstate Resources, from Merpas Co. Srl.
Merpas, which completed on 25 August 2017.
Income tax expense 33 56 Interstate Resources is an integrated packaging and paper producer based on the East Coast of the USA.
It operates from 19 production sites Share of profit of equity accounted investments, net of tax 5 3 and has approximately 1,500 employees.
Net financing costs 74 55 Amortisation 93 65 Interstate Resources operates across the entire packaging chain including wood procurement, paper manufacturing, design, packaging Adjusting items 76 62 manufacturing and customer logistics, with the majority of its customer base for its packaging products being FMCG and food customers.
Operating profit before amortisation and adjusting items 530 443 The acquisition aligns with the global convergence of DS Smiths customers requirements and is expected to create a higher quality, higher Depreciation 168 148 margin group with more growth potential.
Adjusted EBITDA 698 591 The acquisition was funded by the issue of a placing on 29 June 2017 of shares in the Company with proceeds net of commissions and Working capital movement 16 124 expenses of 280m, existing debt facilities, new debt facilities of 400m agreed by the Company on 28 June 2017, and the issue of Change in provisions 9 6 52,474,156 ordinary shares to the seller.
Change in employee benefits 27 19 Other 10 5 In the year ended 30 April 2018, Interstate Resources contributed combined revenue of 379m and adjusted operating profit before amortisation and adjusting items of 62m to the Groups results.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 May 2017, estimated revenue Cash generated from operations before adjusting cash items 656 695 and adjusted operating profit before amortisation and adjusting items for the combined group would have been 5,954m and Capital expenditure 347 244 557m respectively.
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other investments 18 18 Tax paid 82 61 The following table summarises the consideration paid for the Interstate Resources business and provisional fair value of assets acquired and Net interest paid 41 45 liabilities assumed: Free cash flow 204 363 Carrying values before Provisional Cash outflow for adjusting items 80 66 acquisition fair values Dividends paid 157 121 m m Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 615 71 Intangible assets 1 258 Other 4 Biological assets 8 8 Net cash flow 652 105 Property, plant and equipment 272 276 Proceeds from issue of share capital 283 13 Equity accounted and other investments 16 19 Borrowings acquired 204 14 Inventories 33 31 Net movement on debt 573 104 Net income tax assets 3 2 Foreign exchange, fair value and other non-cash movements note 17 15 97 Trade and other receivables 63 61 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Net debt movement continuing operations 588 7 Opening net debt 1,092 1,099 Borrowings 140 140 Trade and other payables 54 42 Closing net debt 1,680 1,092 Provisions and employee benefits 11 13 Adjusted EBITDA, free cash flow, and net debt are non-GAAP measures not defined by IFRS.
Further detail on the use of non-GAAP measures Net deferred tax liabilities 37 118 is included in note 32.
Total identifiable net assets acquired 155 343 Redemption liability relating to non-controlling interest 152 28.
Operating leases Goodwill 581 Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: Total consideration 772 2018 2017 m m Satisfied by: Less than one year 49 27 Cash consideration 511 Between one and five years 111 64 Equity instruments 52,474,156 ordinary shares 261 More than five years 50 39 Total consideration transferred 772 210 130 Net cash flow arising on acquisition Cash consideration 511 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for various properties, machines, vehicles and office equipment.
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 1 29.
Capital commitments and contingencies Total cash outflow 510 At 30 April 2018, the Group had committed to incur capital expenditure of 56m 30 April 2017: 18m.
The fair value of the ordinary shares issued was based on the listed share price of the Company at 25 August 2017 of 4.97 per share.
The Group is not subject to a material litigation, but has a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the ordinary course of business on behalf A detailed exercise has been undertaken to assess the provisional fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the use of third of trading subsidiaries including, inter alia, intellectual property disputes and regulatory enquiries in areas such as health and safety, party experts where appropriate.
The provisional fair values of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment have been assessed by environmental, and anti-trust.
reference to work performed by an independent valuation specialist.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition relate to As a result of previous acquisitions, various contingent liabilities were identified and included within provisions, as required by IFRS 3 Business customer relationships.
com 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Acquisitions and disposals continued a Acquisition of Interstate Resources continued If new information obtained within one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date identifies adjustments to the above amounts, or any additional provisions that existed at the acquisition date, then the acquisition accounting will be revised.
The redemption liability relating to the non-controlling interest of 152m relates to the 20% minority stake in IMRI retained by Merpas.
On fixed dates over the next four years, Merpas can require the Group to acquire some or all of the remaining shares in IMRI on agreed terms under a put option, and, on the fifth anniversary of Completion, the Group will unless agreed otherwise acquire any shares in IMRI that it does not already own.
The Group has concluded that the risks and rewards related to the put option have substantially transferred to the Group as acquirer and, as such, a financial liability has been recognised, with no non-controlling interest recognised in the statement of financial position.
The redemption liability is held at discounted fair value, with subsequent movements taken to the income statement: movements due to re-measurement using the multiple based formula as specified in the contract and the unwind of the discount are recorded in adjusting items.
The redemption liability is included in trade and other payables in the consolidated statement of financial position note 16.
Deferred tax is recognised on the temporary timing differences created by the fair value adjustments.
The trade and other receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of 62m.
At the acquisition date, it is estimated that contractual cash flows of 1m will not be collected.
The provisional goodwill balance of 581m arising on the acquisition of Interstate Resources which is not expected to be tax deductible includes anticipated synergies from integrating Interstate Resources into the Group, and the skills and technical talent of the Interstate Resources workforce.
b Acquisition of EcoPack EcoPaper On 18 October 2017, the Group announced it had entered into an agreement to acquire EcoPack and EcoPaper, collectively the Business for an enterprise value of c. 208 million, which completed on 6 March 2018.
The Business is a leading integrated packaging and paper group in Romania: family owned for many years.
It will significantly enhance the Groups capacity to serve customers in this high growth region as well as supporting our wider substantial Eastern European presence.
The Business includes both high quality packaging assets, focused on the local FMCG market, as well as a new paper machine, built in 2017, that specialises in high quality, light-weight paper, which is particularly well-suited to supporting the Groups performance packaging solutions.
The acquisition was funded by existing cash and debt facilities and the issue of 6,492,411 ordinary shares to the seller.
In the year ended 30 April 2018, EcoPack EcoPaper contributed combined revenue of 10m and adjusted operating profit before amortisation and adjusting items of 3m to the Groups results.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 May 2017, estimated revenue and adjusted operating profit before amortisation and adjusting items for the combined group would have been 5,836m and 538m respectively.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for the EcoPack EcoPaper business and provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed: Carrying values before Provisional acquisition fair values m m Intangible assets 39 Property, plant and equipment 94 94 Inventories 6 5 Net income tax liabilities 1 Trade and other receivables 12 12 Borrowings 60 60 Trade and other payables 8 8 Net deferred tax liabilities 6 Total identifiable net assets acquired 44 75 Goodwill 53 Total consideration 128 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 95 Equity instruments 6,492,411 ordinary shares 33 Total consideration transferred 128 Net cash flow arising on acquisition Cash consideration 95 Cash and cash equivalents acquired Total cash outflow 95 48 132 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Acquisitions and disposals continued a Acquisition of Interstate Resources continued b Acquisition of EcoPack EcoPaper continued If new information obtained within one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date The fair value of the ordinary shares issued was based on the listed share price of the Company at 6 March 2018 of 5.06 per share.
identifies adjustments to the above amounts, or any additional provisions that existed at the acquisition date, then the acquisition accounting The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition relate to customer relationships.
Given that the acquisition was completed on 6 March, fair values for assets and liabilities acquired are provisional.
If new information obtained The redemption liability relating to the non-controlling interest of 152m relates to the 20% minority stake in IMRI retained by Merpas.
On within one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date identifies adjustments to the fixed dates over the next four years, Merpas can require the Group to acquire some or all of the remaining shares in IMRI on agreed terms above amounts, or any additional provisions that existed at the acquisition date, then the acquisition accounting will be revised.
under a put option, and, on the fifth anniversary of Completion, the Group will unless agreed otherwise acquire any shares in IMRI that it does not already own.
The Group has concluded that the risks and rewards related to the put option have substantially transferred to the Deferred tax is recognised on the temporary timing differences created by the fair value adjustments.
Group as acquirer and, as such, a financial liability has been recognised, with no non-controlling interest recognised in the statement of The provisional goodwill balance of 53m arising on the acquisition of EcoPack EcoPaper which is not expected to be tax deductible includes financial position.
The redemption liability is held at discounted fair value, with subsequent movements taken to the income statement: anticipated synergies from integrating EcoPack EcoPaper into the Group, and the skills and technical talent of the EcoPack EcoPaper movements due to re-measurement using the multiple based formula as specified in the contract and the unwind of the discount are workforce.
The redemption liability is included in trade and other payables in the consolidated statement of financial position note 16. c Other 2017 18 acquisitions and disposals In total, during the year ended 30 April 2018, cash consideration for acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents was Deferred tax is recognised on the temporary timing differences created by the fair value adjustments.
615m, and borrowings acquired were 204m, giving a total impact on net debt from acquisitions of 819m.
Apart from the acquisitions of The trade and other receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of 62m.
At the acquisition date, it is estimated that contractual Interstate Resources and EcoPack EcoPaper, the remaining acquisitions are not material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
cash flows of 1m will not be collected.
d 2016 17 acquisitions and disposals The provisional goodwill balance of 581m arising on the acquisition of Interstate Resources which is not expected to be tax deductible In the year ended 30 April 2017, the Group made various business acquisitions, which included the acquisition of two businesses specialising in includes anticipated synergies from integrating Interstate Resources into the Group, and the skills and technical talent of the Interstate point of sale and display product and services for in-store marketing, Creo in the UK and Deku-Pack in Denmark, the acquisition of Parish a US Resources workforce.
manufacturer and supplier of bag-in-box systems, Gopaca a corrugated producer in Portugal and P&I Display a specialist corrugated display business in Portugal.
b Acquisition of EcoPack EcoPaper On 18 October 2017, the Group announced it had entered into an agreement to acquire EcoPack and EcoPaper, collectively the Business for These acquisitions were not considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate and were for a total of 71m net of cash and cash an enterprise value of c. 208 million, which completed on 6 March 2018. equivalents.
Borrowings acquired from these transactions were 14m.
It will significantly enhance the e Acquisition related costs Groups capacity to serve customers in this high growth region as well as supporting our wider substantial Eastern European presence.
The The Group incurred acquisition related costs of 29m 2016 17: 7m which primarily related to the acquisition of Interstate Resources as Business includes both high quality packaging assets, focused on the local FMCG market, as well as a new paper machine, built in 2017, that detailed in note 30 a.
In addition to the total of 29m which was included in administrative expenses within adjusting items, 5m of costs specialises in high quality, light-weight paper, which is particularly well-suited to supporting the Groups performance packaging solutions.
related to the share placing with existing DS Smith equity holders has been netted against share premium.
Related parties Identity of related parties In the year ended 30 April 2018, EcoPack EcoPaper contributed combined revenue of 10m and adjusted operating profit before amortisation In the normal course of business the Group undertakes a wide variety of transactions between its subsidiaries and equity accounted and adjusting items of 3m to the Groups results.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 May 2017, estimated revenue and adjusted operating investments.
profit before amortisation and adjusting items for the combined group would have been 5,836m and 538m respectively.
The key management personnel of the Company comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and non-Executive Directors.
The compensation The following table summarises the consideration paid for the EcoPack EcoPaper business and provisional fair value of assets acquired and of key management personnel can be found in the Remuneration Committee report.
Certain key management personnel also participate in liabilities assumed: the Groups share-based incentive programme note 25.
Included within the share-based payment expense, and detailed in the Carrying Remuneration Committee report, is a charge of 3m 2016 17: 2m relating to key management personnel.
values before Provisional acquisition fair values m m Transactions with pension trustees are disclosed in note 24.
Intangible assets 39 Other related party transactions Property, plant and equipment 94 94 2018 2017 m m Inventories 6 5 Sales to equity accounted investees 3 Net income tax liabilities 1 Purchases from equity accounted investees 9 Trade and other receivables 12 12 Purchases from other investees 4 Borrowings 60 60 Trade and other payables 8 8 Net deferred tax liabilities 6 Total identifiable net assets acquired 44 75 Goodwill 53 Total consideration 128 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 95 Equity instruments 6,492,411 ordinary shares 33 Total consideration transferred 128 Net cash flow arising on acquisition Cash consideration 95 Cash and cash equivalents acquired Total cash outflow 95 48 49 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Non-GAAP performance measures The Group presents reported and adjusted financial information in order to provide shareholders with additional information to further understand the Groups operational performance and financial position.
The principal adjustments to financial information are made to exclude the effects of adjusting items and amortisation.
Total reported financial information represents the Groups overall performance and financial position, but can contain significant unusual or non-operational items that may obscure understanding of the key trends and position.
These unusual or non-operational items include business disposals, restructuring and optimisation project costs, acquisition-related and integration costs, and impairments.
Restructuring and optimisation items treated as adjusting items are major programmes usually spanning more than one year, with uneven impact on the profit and loss for those years affected.
Other adjusting items, such as business disposals, impairments, integration and acquisition costs, which are by nature either highly variable and can also have a similar distorting effect.
Therefore, the Directors consider that presenting non-GAAP measures which exclude adjusting items enable comparability of the recurring core business, complementing the IFRS measures presented.
Amortisation relates primarily to customer contracts and relationships arising from business combinations.
Significant costs are incurred in maintaining, developing and increasing the value of such intangibles, costs which are charged in determining adjusted profit.
Exclusion of amortisation remedies this double count as well as providing comparability over the accounting treatment of customer contracts and relationships arising from the acquisition of businesses and those generated internally.
The Groups key non-GAAP measures are used both internally and externally to evaluate business performance against the Groups KPIs and banking and debt covenants, as a key constituent of the Groups planning process, as well as comprising targets against which compensation is determined.
Certain non-GAAP performance measures can be, and are, reconciled to information presented in the financial statements.
Other financial key performance measures are calculated using information which is not presented in the financial statements and is based on, for example, average twelve month balances or average exchange rates.
The key non-GAAP performance measures used by the Group and their calculation methods are as follows: Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit is operating profit excluding the pre-tax effects of both amortisation and adjusting items.
Adjusting items include business disposal gains and losses, restructuring and optimisation costs, acquisition related and integration costs and impairments.
A reconciliation between reported and adjusted operating profit is set out on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Operating profit before adjusting items A reconciliation between operating profit and operating profit before adjusting items is set out on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Other similar profit measures before adjusting items are quoted, such as profit before income tax and adjusting items, and are directly derived from the consolidated income statement, from which they can be directly reconciled.
Return on sales Return on sales is adjusted operating profit measured as a percentage of revenue and can be derived directly from the face of the consolidated income statement.
Return on sales is used to measure the value we deliver to customers and the Groups ability to charge for that value.
2018 2017 m m Adjusted operating profit 530 443 Revenue 5,765 4,781 Return on sales 9.2% 9.3% Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share is basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude the post-tax effects of adjusting items and amortisation.
Adjusted earnings per share is a key performance measure for management long-term remuneration and is widely used by the Groups shareholders.
A reconciliation between basic and adjusted earnings per share is provided in note 8.
50 134 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Non-GAAP performance measures continued The Group presents reported and adjusted financial information in order to provide shareholders with additional information to further Adjusted return on average capital employed ROACE understand the Groups operational performance and financial position.
ROACE is the last 12 months adjusted operating profit as a percentage of the average monthly capital employed over the previous 12 month period.
Capital employed is the sum of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, working capital, capital The principal adjustments to financial information are made to exclude the effects of adjusting items and amortisation.
debtors creditors, provisions, biological assets and assets liabilities held for sale.
Total reported financial information represents the Groups overall performance and financial position, but can contain significant unusual 2018 2017 or non-operational items that may obscure understanding of the key trends and position.
These unusual or non-operational items include m m business disposals, restructuring and optimisation project costs, acquisition-related and integration costs, and impairments.
Restructuring and Capital employed at 30 April 4,106 2,796 optimisation items treated as adjusting items are major programmes usually spanning more than one year, with uneven impact on the profit Currency, inter-month and acquisition movements 353 182 and loss for those years affected.
Other adjusting items, such as business disposals, impairments, integration and acquisition costs, which Last 12 months average capital employed 3,753 2,978 are by nature either highly variable and can also have a similar distorting effect.
Therefore, the Directors consider that presenting non-GAAP Last 12 months adjusted operating profit 530 443 measures which exclude adjusting items enable comparability of the recurring core business, complementing the IFRS measures presented.
Adjusted return on average capital employed 14.1% 14.9% Amortisation relates primarily to customer contracts and relationships arising from business combinations.
Significant costs are incurred in Adjusted EBITDA maintaining, developing and increasing the value of such intangibles, costs which are charged in determining adjusted profit.
Exclusion of Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Adjusted EBITDA is adjusted operating profit excluding depreciation.
amortisation remedies this double count as well as providing comparability over the accounting treatment of customer contracts and A reconciliation from adjusted operating profit to adjusted EBITDA is provided in note 27. relationships arising from the acquisition of businesses and those generated internally.
Net debt The Groups key non-GAAP measures are used both internally and externally to evaluate business performance against the Groups KPIs and Net debt is the measure by which the Group assesses its level of overall indebtedness within its financial position.
A split showing the banking and debt covenants, as a key constituent of the Groups planning process, as well as comprising targets against which compensation components of net debt is provided in note 17. is determined.
Net debt EBITDA Certain non-GAAP performance measures can be, and are, reconciled to information presented in the financial statements.
Other financial key Net debt EBITDA is the ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA, calculated in accordance with the Groups banking covenant requirements.
performance measures are calculated using information which is not presented in the financial statements and is based on, for example, average twelve month balances or average exchange rates.
Net debt EBITDA is considered a key measure of balance sheet strength and financial stability by which the Group assesses its financial position.
The key non-GAAP performance measures used by the Group and their calculation methods are as follows: In calculating the ratio, net debt is stated at average rates as opposed to closing rates, and adjusted EBITDA is adjusted operating profit before Adjusted operating profit depreciation from the previous 12 month period adjusted for the full year effect of acquisitions and disposals in the period.
Adjusted operating profit is operating profit excluding the pre-tax effects of both amortisation and adjusting items.
2018 2017 m m A reconciliation between reported and adjusted operating profit is set out on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Net debt reported basis see note 17 1,680 1,092 Currency effects 7 Operating profit before adjusting items A reconciliation between operating profit and operating profit before adjusting items is set out on the face of the consolidated income Net debt adjusted basis 1,687 1,092 statement.
Adjusted EBITDA last 12 months reported basis 698 591 Acquisition effects 52 6 Other similar profit measures before adjusting items are quoted, such as profit before income tax and adjusting items, and are directly derived Adjusted EBITDA banking covenant basis 750 597 from the consolidated income statement, from which they can be directly reconciled.
Free cash flow Return on sales Free cash flow is the net movement on debt before cash outflow for adjusting items, dividends paid, acquisition and disposal of subsidiary Return on sales is adjusted operating profit measured as a percentage of revenue and can be derived directly from the face of the businesses including borrowings acquired, and proceeds from issue of share capital.
A reconciliation of free cash flow is set out in note 27.
2018 2017 m m Cash conversion Cash conversion is free cash flow, as defined above, adjusted to exclude tax, net interest, growth capital expenditure and pension payments Adjusted operating profit 530 443 as a percentage of adjusted operating profit and can be derived directly from note 27, other than growth capital expenditure, which is capital Revenue 5,765 4,781 expenditure necessary for the development or expansion of the business as follows: Return on sales 9.2% 9.3% 2018 2017 Adjusted earnings per share m m Adjusted earnings per share is basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude the post-tax effects of adjusting items and amortisation.
Adjusted Growth capital expenditure 175 103 earnings per share is a key performance measure for management long-term remuneration and is widely used by the Groups shareholders.
Non-growth capital expenditure 172 141 Total capital expenditure 347 244 A reconciliation between basic and adjusted earnings per share is provided in note 8.
Free cash flow note 27 204 363 Tax paid note 27 82 61 Net interest paid note 27 41 45 Growth capital expenditure 175 103 Pension payments note 27 27 19 529 591 Adjusted operating profit 530 443 Cash conversion 100% 133% 50 51 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Non-GAAP performance measures continued Average working capital to sales Average working capital to sales measures the level of investment the Group makes in working capital to conduct its operations.
It is measured by comparing the monthly working capital balances for the previous 12 months as a percentage of revenue over the same period.
Working capital is the sum of inventories, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables, excluding capital and acquisition related debtors and creditors.
2018 2017 m m Inventories 543 406 Trade and other receivables 870 769 Trade and other payables 1,719 1,372 Inter-month movements and exclusion of capital and acquisition related items 308 239 Last 12 months average working capital 2 42 Last 12 months revenue 5,765 4,781 Average working capital to sales 0.0% 0.9% Constant currency The Group presents commentary on both reported and constant currency revenue and adjusted operating profit comparatives in order to explain the impact of exchange rates on the Groups key income statement captions.
Constant currency comparatives recalculate the prior period revenue and adjusted operating profit as if they had been generated at the current year exchange rates.
The table below shows the calculation: Comparative year ended 30 April 2017 Adjusted operating Revenue profit m m Reported basis 4,781 443 Currency effects 143 13 Constant currency basis 4,924 456 33.
DS Smith Group companies The Groups ultimate parent Company is DS Smith Plc.
Group companies are grouped by the countries in which they are incorporated or registered.
Unless otherwise noted, the undertakings below are wholly owned and consolidated by DS Smith and the share capital held comprises ordinary or common shares which are held by Group subsidiaries.
Principal companies are identified in orange.
Fully owned subsidiaries Notes Notes Notes Argentina Chile Egypt Total Marketing Support Argentina SA 2 Total Marketing Support Chile SpA 15 TMS Egypt LLC 28 Australia China Estonia Total Marketing Support Pacific Pty Ltd 3 DS Smith Shanghai Trading Ltd 16 DS Smith Packaging Estonia AS 29 Austria TMS Shanghai Trading Ltd 17 Finland DS Smith Austria Holdings GmbH 4 Colombia DS Smith Packaging Baltic Holding Oy 30 DS Smith Packaging Austria 4 Total Marketing Support Colombia S A S 18 DS Smith Packaging Finland Oy 30  GmbH Croatia DS Smith Packaging Pakkausjaloste Oy 30 DS Smith Packaging Austria GmbH 5 Bilokalnik-IPA d. d. G, 20 Eastpac Oy 30 DS Smith Packaging South East GmbH 4 DS Smith Belie Croatia d. o. o.
19 France Belgium DS Smith Plastics Karlovac d. o. o.
21 DPF Groupe 31 DS Smith Packaging Belgium N. V. 7 DS Smith Unijapapir Croatia d. o. o.
22 DS Smith Ducaplast 51 DS Smith Packaging Marketing N. V. 8 Duropack Karton d. o. o.
23 DS Smith France 33 DS Smith Plastics Bilzen N. V. 6 Czech Republic DS Smith Htre Blanc 32 Bosnia & Herzegovina DS Smith Packaging Czech Republic s. r. o.
25 DS Smith Packaging Anjou 32 DS Smith Packaging BH d. o. o. Sarajevo 9 DS Smith Triss s. r. o.
26 DS Smith Packaging Atlantique 32 DS Smith Recycling Bosnia d. o. o.
10 Denmark DS Smith Packaging Auneuil 32 Brazil DS Smith Display Emballageform ApS 27 DS Smith Packaging Bretagne 54 Total Marketing Support Brazil Ltda 11 DS Smith Display Holding ApS 27 DS Smith Packaging C. E. R. A.
38 Bulgaria DS Smith Display Hvidovre A S 27 DS Smith Packaging Consumer 32 DS Smith Bulgaria S. A.
12 DS Smith Display Tastrup ApS 27 DS Smith Packaging Contoire-Hamel 41 Rapak EAD 13 DS Smith DM Plast ApS 27 DS Smith Packaging Display and Services 32 Canada DS Smith Packaging Denmark A S 27 DS Smith Packaging DPF 31 TMS Canada 360 Inc. 14 DS Smith Vejle Print A S 27 DS Smith Packaging Fegersheim 36 52 136 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
DS Smith Group companies continued Average working capital to sales Fully owned subsidiaries continued Notes Notes Notes Average working capital to sales measures the level of investment the Group makes in working capital to conduct its operations.
It is measured France continued DS Smith Packaging Ireland Limited 77 Portugal by comparing the monthly working capital balances for the previous 12 months as a percentage of revenue over the same period.
Working DS Smith Packaging France 32 Italy DS Smith Displays FFTM, Unipessoal Lda.
104 capital is the sum of inventories, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables, excluding capital and acquisition related debtors DS Smith Packaging Kaypac 55 DS Smith Holding Italia SpA 80 DS Smith Displays Opcao Actual, S. A.
DS Smith Packaging Larousse 44 DS Smith Packaging Italia SpA 80 DS Smith Displays P&I, S. A.
102 DS Smith Packaging Mehun CIM 43 DS Smith Paper Italia Srl.
80 DS Smith Packaging Portugal, S. A.
103 2018 2017 m m DS Smith Packaging Nord-Est 33 DS Smith Recycling Italia Srl 79 Tecnicartn Portugal Unipessoal Lda 101 DS Smith Packaging Normandie 45 Inventories 543 406 Toscana Ondulati SpA D, 78 Romania DS Smith Packaging Normandie Ondul 48 Japan DS Smith Packaging Romania S. R. L. 108 Trade and other receivables 870 769 DS Smith Packaging Premium 53 Total Marketing Support Japan Ltd 81 EcoPack S. R. L. A, B, 106 Trade and other payables 1,719 1,372 DS Smith Packaging Services 35 Kazakhstan EcoPaper S. A.
107 Inter-month movements and exclusion of capital and acquisition related items 308 239 DS Smith Packaging Sud Est 52 Total Marketing Support Kazakhstan 82 Russia Last 12 months average working capital 2 42 DS Smith Packaging Sud Ouest 53 Latvia David S. Smith Vostok 110 Last 12 months revenue 5,765 4,781 DS Smith Packaging Systems 34 SIA DS Smith Packaging Latvia 83 Total Marketing Support Moscow 109 Average working capital to sales 0.0% 0.9% DS Smith Packaging Tout Embal 49 Lithuania Serbia DS Smith Packaging Velin 50 UAB DS Smith Packaging Lithuania 84 DS Smith Inos Papir Servis d. o. o.
111 Constant currency DS Smith Packaging Vervins 32 Luxembourg DS Smith Packaging d. o. o. Kruevac 112 The Group presents commentary on both reported and constant currency revenue and adjusted operating profit comparatives in order to DS Smith Paper Coullons 47 DS Smith Luxembourg S. r. l. 85 Papir Servis DP d. o. o.
112 explain the impact of exchange rates on the Groups key income statement captions.
Constant currency comparatives recalculate the prior DS Smith Paper Kaysersberg 40 DS Smith Perch Luxembourg S. r. l. 85 Slovakia period revenue and adjusted operating profit as if they had been generated at the current year exchange rates.
The table below shows DS Smith Plastics France 39 DS Smith Re S. A.
85 DS Smith Packaging Slovakia s. r. o.
115 the calculation: DS Smith Recycling France 37 Macedonia the Former Yugoslav Republic of DS Smith Slovakia s. r. o.
114 DS Smith Rivatex 42 Comparative DS Smith AD Skopje E, 86 DS Smith Turpak Obaly a. s. C, 116 year ended Otor Lease 32 Malaysia Slovenia 30 April 2017 Rowlandson France 33 Total Marketing Support 360 Malaysia 87 DS Smith Slovenija d. o. o.
117 Adjusted Tecnicartn France 46 operating Sdn.
South Africa Revenue profit Germany Mexico TMS 360 SA PTY Ltd 118 m m Bretschneider Verpackungen GmbH H, 57 Total Marketing Support 360 Mexico S. A fide C. V 88 Spain Reported basis 4,781 443 Delta Packaging Services GmbH 64 Morocco Bertako S. L. U.
125 Currency effects 143 13 DS Smith Hamburg Display GmbH 66 Tecnicartn Tnger S. a. r. l. AU 89 DS Smith Andorra S. A.
119 Constant currency basis 4,924 456 DS Smith Packaging Arenshausen 60 Netherlands DS Smith Business Services S. L. U.
119 Mivepa GmbH David S. Smith Netherlands B. V. 92 DS Smith Carton Plastico S. A.
DS Smith Group companies DS Smith Packaging Arnstadt GmbH 56 DS Smith Holdings B. V. 92 DS Smith Packaging Alcala S. L. U.
121 DS Smith Packaging Beteiligungen GmbH 67 The Groups ultimate parent Company is DS Smith Plc.
DS Smith Baars B. V. 67 DS Smith Packaging Cartogal S. A.
126 DS Smith Packaging Deutschland Stiftung 62 DS Smith fide Hoop Holding B. V. 92 DS Smith Packaging Dicesa S. A. F, 120 Group companies are grouped by the countries in which they are incorporated or registered.
Unless otherwise noted, the undertakings below DS Smith Packaging Deutschland Stiftung 67 DS Smith Finance B. V. 92 DS Smith Packaging Flak S. L. 122 are wholly owned and consolidated by DS Smith and the share capital held comprises ordinary or common shares which are held by Group & Co KG DS Smith Hellas Netherlands B. V. 91 DS Smith Packaging Galicia S. A.
DS Smith Paper Deutschland GmbH 65 DS Smith Italy B. V. 92 DS Smith Packaging Holding S. L. U.
119 DS Smith Pre-Press Services GmbH 63 Fully owned subsidiaries Notes DS Smith Packaging Almelo B. V. 90 DS Smith Packaging Madrid S. L. 119 Notes Notes DS Smith Recycling Deutschland GmbH 61 DS Smith Packaging Barneveld B. V. 93 Argentina DS Smith Packaging Penedes S. A. U.
120 Chile Egypt DS Smith Stange B. V. & Co. KG 67 DS Smith Packaging Belita B. V. 92 Total Marketing Support Argentina SA 2 DS Smith Packaging TCT S. A.
119 Total Marketing Support Chile SpA 15 TMS Egypt LLC 28 DS Smith Transport Services GmbH 65 DS Smith Packaging Holding B. V. 92 P&I Displays & Packaging Spain S. L. 119 Australia China Estonia DS Smith Wirth Verpackungen GmbH 59 DS Smith Packaging International B. V. 92 Total Marketing Support Pacific Pty Ltd 3 Tecnicartn, S. L. 124 DS Smith Shanghai Trading Ltd 16 DS Smith Packaging Estonia AS 29 Rapak GmbH 58 DS Smith Packaging Netherlands B. V. 91 Austria Sweden TMS Shanghai Trading Ltd 17 Finland Gibraltar DS Smith Austria Holdings GmbH 4 DS Smith Recycling Benelux B. V. 91 DS Smith Packaging Sweden AB 128 Colombia DS Smith Packaging Baltic Holding Oy 30 DS Smith Finco IRE Limited 68 DS Smith Recycling Holding B. V. 91 DS Smith Packaging Austria 4 DS Smith Packaging Sweden Holding AB 128 Total Marketing Support Colombia S A S 18 DS Smith Packaging Finland Oy 30 Greece  GmbH DS Smith Salm B. V. 92 Switzerland Croatia DS Smith Packaging Pakkausjaloste Oy 30 DS Smith Cretan Hellas S. A.
70 DS Smith Packaging Austria GmbH 5 DS Smith Tilburg C. V. 95 DS Smith Packaging Switzerland AG 129 Bilokalnik-IPA d. d. G, 20 Eastpac Oy 30 DS Smith Hellas S. A.
69 DS Smith Packaging South East GmbH 4 DS Smith Toppositie B. V. 92 Thailand DS Smith Belie Croatia d. o. o.
19 France Hong Kong Belgium New Zealand DS Smith Rapak Thailand Limited 130 DS Smith Plastics Karlovac d. o. o.
21 DPF Groupe 31 The Less Packaging Company Asia Limited 71 DS Smith Packaging Belgium N. V. 7 Rapak Asia Pacific Limited 96 Turkey DS Smith Unijapapir Croatia d. o. o.
22 DS Smith Ducaplast 51 Hungary DS Smith Packaging Marketing N. V. 8 Nigeria DS Smith Ambalaj A.. 131 Duropack Karton d. o. o.
23 DS Smith France 33 DS Smith Omikron Kft.
73 DS Smith Plastics Bilzen N. V. 6 Total Marketing Support 360 Nigeria Limited 97 Total Marketing Support Turkey Bask 132 Czech Republic DS Smith Htre Blanc 32 DS Smith Packaging Fzesabony Kft.
72 Bosnia & Herzegovina Pakistan Ynetimi Hizmetleri A.. DS Smith Packaging Czech Republic s. r. o.
25 DS Smith Packaging Anjou 32 DS Smith Packaging Hungary Kft.
73 DS Smith Packaging BH d. o. o. Sarajevo 9 TMS Pakistan Private Limited 98 Ukraine DS Smith Triss s. r. o.
26 DS Smith Packaging Atlantique 32 India DS Smith Recycling Bosnia d. o. o.
10 Philippines Total Marketing Support Ukraine 133 Denmark DS Smith Packaging Auneuil 32 DS Smith Products & Services India 74 Brazil Total Marketing Support Philippines 99 United Arab Emirates DS Smith Display Emballageform ApS 27 DS Smith Packaging Bretagne 54 Private Limited Poland Total Marketing Support Middle East DMCC 135 Total Marketing Support Brazil Ltda 11 DS Smith Display Holding ApS 27 DS Smith Packaging C. E. R. A.
38 The Less Packaging Company India 76 Bulgaria DS Smith Packaging sp.
100 DS Smith Display Hvidovre A S 27 DS Smith Packaging Consumer 32 Private Limited DS Smith Bulgaria S. A.
100 DS Smith Display Tastrup ApS 27 DS Smith Packaging Contoire-Hamel 41 Total Marketing Support India Private Limited 75 Rapak EAD 13 DS Smith DM Plast ApS 27 DS Smith Packaging Display and Services 32 Ireland Canada DS Smith Packaging Denmark A S 27 DS Smith Packaging DPF 31 David S. Smith Ireland Unlimited Company 77 TMS Canada 360 Inc. 14 DS Smith Vejle Print A S 27 DS Smith Packaging Fegersheim 36 52 53 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
DS Smith Group companies continued Fully owned subsidiaries continued Notes Notes UK Associate entities St. Regis Packaging Scotland Limited 136 A.
A. Griggs and Company Limited 1 Cyprus St. Regis Paper Company Limited 1 Abbey Corrugated Limited 1 Aerozone Limited I, 24 The Brand Compliance Company Limited 1 Ashton Corrugated 1 Netherlands The Less Packaging Company Limited 1 Ashton Corrugated Southern Limited 1 Industriewater Eerbeek B. V. M, 94 The Wansbrough Paper Company Limited 1 Avonbank Paper Disposal Limited 1 Stort Doonweg B. V. I, 94 TheBannerPeople.
Com Limited 1 Biber Paper Converting Limited 1 Portugal Tillotsons Corrugated Cases Limited 1 Calara Holding Limited 1 Companhia Termica Do Serrado A. c. e. N, 105 TMS Global UK Limited 1 Conew Limited 1 Serbia Total Marketing Support Global Limited I, 1 Corrugated Products Limited 1 Total Marketing Support Limited 1 Papir Pet d. o. o. I, 113 Creo Property Limited 1 Ukraine Treforest Mill plc 1 Creo Retail Marketing Holdings Limited 1 Rubizhanskiy Kartonno-Tarniy Kombinat J, 134 TRM Packaging Limited 1 Creo Retail Marketing Limited 1 USA United Shopper Marketing Limited 1 D. W. Plastics UK Limited 1 AL GAR The Display Connection, Inc. K, 137 W. Rowlandson & Company Limited 1 David S Smith Pension Contributions Limited 1 Philcorr LLC L, 152 Waddington & Duval Limited 1 David S. Smith Nominees Limited 1 PhilCorr Vineland LLC L, 152 USA DS Smith UK Limited 1 Carolina Graphic Services LLC 138 DS Smith Business Services Limited 1 Ownership interest at 30 April 2018 Cedarpak LLC 139 DS Smith Corrugated Packaging Limited 1 CEMT Holdings Group LLC 140 A Directly held by DS Smith Plc DS Smith Display Holding Limited 1 Corrugated Supply GP LLC 140 B 99.285% ownership interest DS Smith Dormant Eight Limited 1 C 98.89% ownership interest Corrugated Supply LP 140 DS Smith Dormant Five Limited 1 David S. Smith America, Inc. 156 D 92% ownership interest DS Smith Euro Finance Limited 1 David S. Smith Holdings America, Inc. 141 E 81.39% ownership interest DS Smith Finco Limited A, 1 F 80% ownership interest DS Smith Extrusion USA LLC 157 DS Smith Haddox Limited 1 G 69.788% ownership interest DS Smith Holdings, Inc. 158 DS Smith Holdings Limited A, 1 DS Smith Management Resources, Inc. 139 H 51% ownership interest DS Smith International Limited 1 I 50% ownership interest DS Smith USA Corporation 155 DS Smith Italy Limited 1 J 49.6% ownership interest DSS Rapak, Inc. 141 DS Smith Logistics Limited 1 Evergreen Community Power LLC 142 K 48% ownership interest DS Smith Packaging Limited 1 Interstate CorrPack LLC 143 L 40% ownership interest DS Smith Paper Limited 1 M 37.5% ownership interest Interstate Container Brunswick LLC 144 DS Smith Pension Trustees Limited 1 Interstate Container Columbia LLC 145 N 30% ownership interest DS Smith Perch Limited 1 Interstate Container Lowell LLC 146 DS Smith Plastics Limited 1 Interstate Mechanical Packaging LLC 145 DS Smith Recycling UK Limited 1 Interstate Container New Castle LLC 147 DS Smith Roma Limited 1 Interstate Container Reading LLC 148 DS Smith Romania Limited 1 Interstate Container Westminster LLC 149 DS Smith Saver Plus Trustees Limited 1 Interstate Holding, Inc. 139 DS Smith Sudbrook Limited 1 Interstate Paper LLC 150 DS Smith Supplementary Life Cover 1 Interstate Realty Hialeah LLC 139 Scheme Limited Interstate Resources, Inc. 139 DS Smith Ukraine Limited 1 Interstate Southern Packaging LLC 151 DSS Eastern Europe Limited 1 Newport Timber LLC 150 DSS Poznan Limited 1 Phoenix Technology Holdings USA, Inc. 139 DSSH No.
1 Limited 1 Rapak, LLC 141 First4Boxes Limited 1 RB Lumber Company LLC 150 Grovehurst Energy Limited 1 RFC Container LLC 140 JDS Holding 1 SouthCorr LLC 153 Miljoint Limited 1 St. George Timberland Holdings, Inc. 150 Multigraphics Holdings Limited 1 The Less Packaging Company, Inc. 154 Multigraphics Limited 1 TMS America LLC 141 Multigraphics Services Limited 1 United Corrstack LLC 142 Pavidda Paper Limited 1 Priory Packaging Limited 1 rapak psi Limited 1 Reed & Smith Limited 1 SRP New Thames Limited 1 St. Regis Holdings plc 1 St. Regis International Limited 1 St. Regis Kemsley Limited 1 54 138 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
DS Smith Group companies continued 33.
A. Griggs and Company Limited 1 Cyprus Registered offices St. Regis Paper Company Limited 1 Abbey Corrugated Limited 1 Aerozone Limited I, 24 The Brand Compliance Company Limited 1 1.
Zone Industrielle, Voiveselles Croisette, 88800, B. P. 37, Vittel, France Ashton Corrugated 1 Netherlands The Less Packaging Company Limited 1 2.
Avenida Eduardo Madero 1020, 5th floor, Office B, The City of Buenos 56.
Bierweg 11, 99310 Arnstadt, Germany Ashton Corrugated Southern Limited 1 Industriewater Eerbeek B. V. M, 94 The Wansbrough Paper Company Limited 1 Aires, Argentina 57.
5, D-08309 Eibenstock, Germany Avonbank Paper Disposal Limited 1 Stort Doonweg B. V. I, 94 TheBannerPeople.
Foster Raffan, Level 6, 8 West Street, North Sydney NSW 2060, Australia 58.
Dortmunder Strasse 6, 67823, Schwetzingen, Germany Biber Paper Converting Limited 1 Portugal 4.
Friedrichstrae 10, 1010, Wien, Austria Tillotsons Corrugated Cases Limited 1 59.
Ersteiner Strasse 7-9, D79346 Endingen am Kaiserstuhl, Germany Calara Holding Limited 1 Companhia Termica Do Serrado A. c. e. N, 105 5.
Heidestrasse 15, 2433 Margarethen am Moos, Austria TMS Global UK Limited 1 60.
Hauptstrasse 80, 37318 Arenshausen, Germany Conew Limited 1 Serbia Total Marketing Support Global Limited I, 1 6.
Kufsteiner Strasse 27, 83064 Raubling, Germany Corrugated Products Limited 1 Total Marketing Support Limited 1 Papir Pet d. o. o. I, 113 7.
Rollnerstrasse 14, D-90408 Nrnberg, Germany Creo Property Limited 1 Ukraine 8.
Leonardo da Vincilaan 2, Corporate Village - Gebouw Gent 1831 MachelenTreforest Mill plc 1 63.
Ruhrstrasse 3, 36043 Fulda, Germany Creo Retail Marketing Holdings Limited 1 Rubizhanskiy Kartonno-Tarniy Kombinat J, 134 Diegem, Belgium TRM Packaging Limited 1 64.
Siemensstrasse 8, 50259 Pulheim, Germany Creo Retail Marketing Limited 1 USA 9.
Igmanska bb, Sarajevo, Vogoa, Bosnia and Herzegovina United Shopper Marketing Limited 1 65.
Weichertstrasse 7, D-63741 Aschaffenburg, Germany D. W. Plastics UK Limited 1 10.
Jovana Duia br 25 A, Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina AL GAR The Display Connection, Inc. K, 137 W. Rowlandson & Company Limited 1 66.
11 e, 21509 Glinde, Germany David S Smith Pension Contributions Limited 1 Philcorr LLC L, 152 11.
Rua das Fiandeiras 677, Vila Olimpia, Sao Paulo, Brazil Waddington & Duval Limited 1 67.
Zum Fliegerhorst 1312 1318, 63526 Erlensee, Germany David S. Smith Nominees Limited 1 PhilCorr Vineland LLC L, 152 12.
5-9 Main Street, Gibraltar DS Smith UK Limited 1 13.
3rd Floor, 45 Industrialna Str, Shumen 9700, Bulgaria Carolina Graphic Services LLC 138 69.
PO Box 1010, 57022 Sindos Industrial Area, Thessaloniki, Greece DS Smith Business Services Limited 1 Ownership interest at 30 April 2018 14.
215-1673 Carling Avenue, Ottowa ON K2A 1C4, Canada Cedarpak LLC 139 70.
PO Box 90, GR-72200 Ierapetra, Kriti, Greece DS Smith Corrugated Packaging Limited 1 15.
Providencia, Santiago fide Chile, Chile CEMT Holdings Group LLC 140 A Directly held by DS Smith Plc 71.
Units 1607-8, 16th Floor, Citicorp Centre, 17 Whitfield Road, DS Smith Display Holding Limited 1 16.
2 Building, Hongqiao Vanke Center, 988 Shenchang Corrugated Supply GP LLC 140 B 99.285% ownership interest Causeway Bay, Hong Kong Road, Minhang district, 201107, Shanghai, China DS Smith Dormant Eight Limited 1 C 98.89% ownership interest 72.
1, 3390 Fzesabony, Hungary Corrugated Supply LP 140 17.
1788 West Nan Jin Rd, Jing An District, Shanghai, 200040, China DS Smith Dormant Five Limited 1 David S. Smith America, Inc. 156 D 92% ownership interest 73.
Calle 72, 10-07 Oficina 401, Edificio Liberty Seguros, Bogot, Colombia DS Smith Euro Finance Limited 1 David S. Smith Holdings America, Inc. 141 E 81.39% ownership interest 74.
101-104 Banaji House, Flora Fountain, Fort, Mumbai 40000, India 19.
Vijenac Salamona Henricha Gutmanna 30, Belie, Croatia DS Smith Finco Limited A, 1 F 80% ownership interest 75.
2 F, Elegance Tower, Jasola District Centre, Old Mathura Road, New Delhi, DS Smith Extrusion USA LLC 157 20.
Dravska bb, Koprivnica Grad Koprivnica, Croatia DS Smith Haddox Limited 1 G 69.788% ownership interest 110025, India DS Smith Holdings, Inc. 158 21.
Kupljensko 75 b, 47220 Vojnic, Croatia DS Smith Holdings Limited A, 1 76.
A-5 30, Basement, Behind Oriental Bank of Commerce, Paschim Vihar, New DS Smith Management Resources, Inc. 139 H 51% ownership interest 22.
Lastovska 5, Zagreb, Croatia DS Smith International Limited 1 Delhi, 110063, India I 50% ownership interest DS Smith USA Corporation 155 23.
25 28 North Wall Quay, Dublin 1, Ireland DS Smith Italy Limited 1 J 49.6% ownership interest DSS Rapak, Inc. 141 24.
Julia House, 3 Themistocles Dervis Street, Nicosia, CY-1066, Cyprus 78.
Capannori Lu Via del Fanuccio, 126 Cap, 55014 Frazione Marlia, Italy DS Smith Logistics Limited 1 Evergreen Community Power LLC 142 K 48% ownership interest 25.
Teplick 109, Martinves, 405 02 Jlov, Czech Republic DS Smith Packaging Limited 1 79.
Strada Lanzo 237, cap 10148, Torino TO, Italy Interstate CorrPack LLC 143 L 40% ownership interest 26.
Viale Pasubio N. 6, 20154 Milano, Italy DS Smith Paper Limited 1 M 37.5% ownership interest Interstate Container Brunswick LLC 144 27. strupvej 30, 8500 Grenaa, Denmark 81.
Oak Minami-Azabu Building 2F, 3-19-23 Minami-Azabu, Minato-ku, Tokyo, DS Smith Pension Trustees Limited 1 Interstate Container Columbia LLC 145 N 30% ownership interest 28.
Nile City Towers, North Tower, 22nd Floor, Cornish EINil, Cairo, 11624, Egypt 106-0047, Japan DS Smith Perch Limited 1 Interstate Container Lowell LLC 146 82.
Abay Ave. 52, 8 floor, 802-6 office Innova Tower BC, 050008, DS Smith Plastics Limited 1 29.
Pae 24, 11415 Tallinn, Estonia Interstate Mechanical Packaging LLC 145 Almaty, Kazakhstan 30.
PL 426, 33101 Tampere, Finland DS Smith Recycling UK Limited 1 Interstate Container New Castle LLC 147 83.
350 Zone Artisanale des Trois Fontaines, 38140 Rives, France DS Smith Roma Limited 1 Interstate Container Reading LLC 148 84.
1 Terrasse Bellini, 92800, Puteaux, France DS Smith Romania Limited 1 Interstate Container Westminster LLC 149 85.
8-10 Avenue fide la Gare, L-1610 Luxembourg 33.
11 route Industrielle, F-68320, Kunheim, France DS Smith Saver Plus Trustees Limited 1 Interstate Holding, Inc. 139 86.
Zenden Dzemail 1, Skopje 1000, Macedonia the former Yugoslav Republic of 34.
12 rue Gay Lussac ZI Dijon Chenove, 21300, Chenove, France DS Smith Sudbrook Limited 1 Interstate Paper LLC 150 87.
Unit C-12-4, Level 12, Block C, Megan Avenue II, No.
143 Avenue Charles fide Gaulle, 92521, Neuilly sur Seine Cedex, France DS Smith Supplementary Life Cover 1 Interstate Realty Hialeah LLC 139 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia Scheme Limited 36.
146 Route fide Lyon, 67640, Fegersheim, France Interstate Resources, Inc. 139 88.
2501, Col. Lomas fide Chapultepec III DS Smith Ukraine Limited 1 37.
2 Rue Vincent Van Gogh, ZAC des Bords fide Marne, 93360, Interstate Southern Packaging LLC 151 Seccin, Delegacin Miguel Hidalgo, Ciudad fide Mxico, C. P. 11000, Mexico Neuilly Plaisance, France DSS Eastern Europe Limited 1 Newport Timber LLC 150 89.
Tanger, Zone Franche dExportation, ILot 11, Lot 5, Morocco 38.
6-8 Boulevard Monge, 69330, Meyzieu, Lyon, France DSS Poznan Limited 1 Phoenix Technology Holdings USA, Inc. 139 90.
Bedrijvenpark Twente 90, NL-7602 KD Almelo, Netherlands 39.
75 Route fide Lapoutroie, 68240, Kaysersberg, France DSSH No.
77 Route fide Lapoutroie, 68240, Kaysersberg, France First4Boxes Limited 1 RB Lumber Company LLC 150 92.
Harderwijkerweg 41, 6961 GH, Eerbeek, Netherlands Grovehurst Energy Limited 1 41.
Contoire Hamel, 80500, Mondidier, France RFC Container LLC 140 93.
Hotel dEnterprise, Parc dActivities Tournebride, 44118, JDS Holding 1 SouthCorr LLC 153 94.
Kanaalweg 8 A, 6961 LW, Eerbeek, Netherlands La Chevroliere, France Miljoint Limited 1 St. George Timberland Holdings, Inc. 150 95.
Route fide Marmagne, 18500, Mehun sur Yevre, France Multigraphics Holdings Limited 1 The Less Packaging Company, Inc. 154 96.
Building C1, The Gate, 373 Neilson Street, Onehunga, Auckland, New Zealand 44.
Rue fide la Deviniere, B. P. 7, 45510 FR, Tigy, France Multigraphics Limited 1 TMS America LLC 141 97.
Saint Amand, 50160, Torigni sur Vire, France Multigraphics Services Limited 1 United Corrstack LLC 142 98.
Office 408, Level 5, Al Memar Tower, E-11 2, Islamabad, Islamabad Capital 46.
27 Rue du Tennis, 25110, Baume les Dames, France Pavidda Paper Limited 1 Territory I. C. T. 44000, Pakistan 47.
Usine fide La Fosse, B. P. No 8, 45720, Coullons, France Priory Packaging Limited 1 99.
25 F Philam Tower, 8767 Paseo fide Roxas Avenue, Makati City, 48.
ZAC Cabourg Village, 14390, Cabourg, France rapak psi Limited 1 1226, Philippines 49.
345 Impasse fide Saint-Alban Avenue fide Croupillac, 30100 Ales, France Reed & Smith Limited 1 100.
ZI La Plaine Eloyes, 88214, Remiremont, France SRP New Thames Limited 1 101. gueda Aveiro, Raso fide Paredes 3754-209, Portugal 51.
Zone dentreprises fide la Kruysstraete, B. P. 39, F-59470 Wormhout, France St. Regis Holdings plc 1 102.
Edificio Opcao Actual, Parque Industrial fide Oliveirinha, 3430-414 Carregal do 52.
Zone Industrielle du Pr fide la Barre, 38440, St-Jean fide Bournay, France St. Regis International Limited 1 Sal, Portugal 53.
Zone Industrielle fide Chteaubernard, 16102, Cognac, France St. Regis Kemsley Limited 1 54.
Zone Industrielle fide Kevoasdoue, 29270, Carhaix, France 54 55 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
DS Smith Group companies continued Registered offices continued 103.
Rua Mestra Ceclia do Simo, n. 378, 3885-593 Esmoriz, Ovar, Portugal 130.
1 21 Moo5 Factory G26, TFD Industrial Estate, Tambon Tasa-arn, Amphoe Bangpakong, Chachoengsao Province, Thailand 104.
Via do Oriente, n. 18, escritrio 4, 1. piso, Parque das Naes, 1990 514 Lisboa, Portugal 131.
Lugar do Espido, Via Norte, Distrito: Porto Concelho: Maia Freguesia: Cidade da 132.
1 Nida Kule Is Merkezi, Kat 7, Kadikoy, Maia, 4470 177 MAIA, Portugal Istanbul, 34732, Turkey 133.
46 Fagarasului Street, Ghimbav, Brasov County, Romania 107.
18, 13 Decembrie Street, Zarnesti, Brasov County, Romania 134.
Unit No: I5-PF-39, Detached Retail I5, Plot No: JLT-PH1-RET-I5, 109.
Office 405, 7 Dolgorukovskaya Street, Moscow, 127006, Russian Federation Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 136.
Muir Road, Houstoun Industrial Estate, Livingston, West Lothian, 110.
Office 9, 35 1 Dmitria Ulianova Street, Moscow 103031, Russian Federation EH54 5DR, UK 111.
Commercial Avenue, Moonachie, New Jersey 07074, United States 112.
4328 Federal Drive, STE 105, Greensboro, NC 27410, United States 113.
44 Bulevar Vojvode Stepe, Novi Sad, Serbia 139.
1300 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 1075, Arlington, VA 22209, United States 114.
2066 South East Avenue, Vineland, NJ 08360, United States 115.
1201 Windham Parkway, Suite D, Romeoville, IL 60446, United States 116.
720 Laurel Street, Reading, PA 19602, United States 117.
Cesta prvih borcev 51, 8280 Brestanica, Slovenia 143.
903 Woods Road, Cambridge, MD 21613, United States 118.
40 Philamere Road, Glenmore, Durban 4001, South Africa 144.
501 Finnegans Lane, North Brunswick, NJ 08902, United States 119.
Del Sol 13 Torrejn fide Ardoz, 28850 Madrid, Spain 145.
128 Crews Drive, Columbia, SC 29210, United States 120.
Carretera B. P. 2151 confluencia carretera C15, Sant Pere fide Riudevitlles, 08776, 146.
240 Industrial Avenue East, Lowell, MA 01852, United States Barcelona, Spain 121.
Carretera fide Daganzo Km 3,450- Poligono Industrial La Pea, Naves F1 a F8, 147.
792 Commerce Avenue, New Castle, PA 16101, United States 28806, Alcala fide Henares Madrid, Spain 148.
100 Grace Street, Reading, PA 19611, United States 122.
Clot fide Moja, 08734 Olerdola, Barcelona, Spain 149.
100 Simplex Drive Core 5, Westminster, MA 01473, United States 123. ctra.
2366 Interstate Paper Road, Riceboro, GA 31323, United States Alcala fide Henares, Madrid, Spain 151.
120 T Elmer Cox Road Greeneville, TN 37743, United States 124.
Parque Industrial Juan Carlos I, C Canal Crespo, 13 Almussafes 46440 152.
2317 Almond Road, Route 55 Industrial Park, Vineland, NJ 08360, United States Valencia, Spain 153.
3021 Taylor Drive, Asheboro, NC 27203, United States 125.
Polgono Industrial Areta n 1, parcela 348, calle Altzutzate, n 46, 31620 154.
70 W. Madison St, Ste 5750, Chicago, Illinois, 60602, United States Huarte, Navarra, Spain 155.
9 E. Loockerman Street, Suite 311, Dover, County of Kent, fide 19901, 126.
Polgono Industrial A Tomada, parcela 28-33, A Pobra do Caramial, 15949 A United States Corua, Spain nd 156.
78 2 Avenue South Lester Prairie, MN 55354, United States 127.
Polgono Industrial O Pousadoiro 4, Parcela 1, 36617 Vilagarca fide Arousa, 157.
208 Pinnacle Drive, Ste D, Romeoville, IL 60446, United States Pontevedra Galicia, Spain 158.
Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Newcastle, 128.
Box 504, 331 25 Varnamo, Sweden fide 19801, United States 129.
Industriestrasse 11, 4665 Oftringen, Switzerland 56 140 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
DS Smith Group companies continued 34.
Subsequent events Registered offices continued a Acquisition of Papeles y Cartones fide Europa, S. A. Europac On 4 June 2018, the Group announced the proposed acquisition of Papeles y Cartones fide Europa, S. A. Europac, a leading western European 103.
1 21 Moo5 Factory G26, TFD Industrial Estate, Tambon Tasa-arn, Amphoe Bangpakong, Chachoengsao Province, Thailand integrated packaging business, for 1,667m plus acquired cash and debt of 237m.
4 Silivri, Istanbul, Turkey The acquisition will be funded by a rights issue of c. 1,000m net and a new committed debt facility of 740m.
1 Nida Kule Is Merkezi, Kat 7, Kadikoy, Maia, 4470 177 MAIA, Portugal Istanbul, 34732, Turkey The acquisition is expected to complete in the last quarter of 2018: completion is subject to certain conditions including approval by the 133.
46 Fagarasului Street, Ghimbav, Brasov County, Romania Companys shareholders and the receipt of regulatory approvals.
Rubizhne, Lugansk Region, 93006, Ukraine An initial accounting and fair value exercise will be conducted shortly after completion.
Office 405, 7 Dolgorukovskaya Street, Moscow, 127006, Russian Federation Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai, United Arab Emirates The following table summarises the financial position of Europac at 31 December 2017 and its profit for the year then ended: 136.
Office 9, 35 1 Dmitria Ulianova Street, Moscow 103031, Russian Federation Carrying values EH54 5DR, UK 111.
11000 Beograd, Milorada Jovanovia 14, Serbia at 31 December 137.
1300 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 1075, Arlington, VA 22209, United States Non-current assets 739 114.
Nmestie bankov 8 31, 048 01 Roznava, Slovakia Current assets 222 141.
Robotncka 1, Martin, 036 80, Slovakia Non-current liabilities 351 142.
Cesta prvih borcev 51, 8280 Brestanica, Slovenia Current liabilities 247 143.
40 Philamere Road, Glenmore, Durban 4001, South Africa Total identifiable net assets acquired 363 144.
Carretera B. P. 2151 confluencia carretera C15, Sant Pere fide Riudevitlles, 08776, Results for 146.
240 Industrial Avenue East, Lowell, MA 01852, United States Barcelona, Spain year ended 31 December 2017 147.
792 Commerce Avenue, New Castle, PA 16101, United States 121.
Carretera fide Daganzo Km 3,450- Poligono Industrial La Pea, Naves F1 a F8, m 28806, Alcala fide Henares Madrid, Spain 148.
100 Grace Street, Reading, PA 19611, United States Revenue 760 122.
100 Simplex Drive Core 5, Westminster, MA 01473, United States Operating costs 663 123. ctra.
2366 Interstate Paper Road, Riceboro, GA 31323, United States Operating profit 97 Alcala fide Henares, Madrid, Spain 151.
Parque Industrial Juan Carlos I, C Canal Crespo, 13 Almussafes 46440 Net finance costs 8 152.
3021 Taylor Drive, Asheboro, NC 27203, United States Profit before tax 89 125.
70 W. Madison St, Ste 5750, Chicago, Illinois, 60602, United States Income tax expense 20 Huarte, Navarra, Spain 155.
9 E. Loockerman Street, Suite 311, Dover, County of Kent, fide 19901, Profit after tax 69 126.
78 2 Avenue South Lester Prairie, MN 55354, United States b Other subsequent events 127.
208 Pinnacle Drive, Ste D, Romeoville, IL 60446, United States On 22 May 2018, the Group announced an agreement to acquire Corrugated Container Corporation, a high-quality corrugated packaging Pontevedra Galicia, Spain 158.
Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Newcastle, Company in north America.
The acquisition is not material to the Group.
Industriestrasse 11, 4665 Oftringen, Switzerland There are no further subsequent events after the reporting date which require disclosure.
