Parent Company Accounting Policies FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 General information Dunelm Group plc is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
Dunelm Group plc is a listed public company, limited by shares and the company registration number is 04708277.
The registered office is Watermead Business Park, Syston, Leicestershire, England, LE7 1AD.
Basis of preparation The Company financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements of the Company are prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, applicable accounting standards and specifically in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Financial income and expenses Financial income comprises interest receivable on intercompany balances held with other Group entities.
Share-based payments The Company operates one equity-settled, share-based compensation plan, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Company.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: z Including any market performance conditions for example, an entitys share price : z Excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and z Including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the requirement for employees to save Non-market performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between service commencement period and grant date.
At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When the options are exercised, the Company either issues new shares, or uses treasury shares purchased for this purpose.
For issued new shares, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
com Stock code: DNLM 144 Financials Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be recognised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved such that the Company is obligated to pay the dividend.
Financial assets Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period where they are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables note 6.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and then carried at amortised cost, net of impairment provisions.
Share capital Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at the adjusted cost of the investment.
IFRS 2 requires the Parent Company to recognise an increase in the cost of its investment in a subsidiary which has issued share options in the Parent Companys shares to its employees.
New standards and interpretations No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective for the first time for the period beginning on or after 2 July 2017, have had a material impact on the Parent Company.
At the balance sheet date there are a number of new standards and amendments to existing standards in issue but not yet effective.
None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the financial statements of the Parent Company.
Further details of these can be found in Accounting Policies in the Groups financial statements on pages 112 to 141.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 145
