Financials Accounting Policies FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 22 to General information 25.
In addition, note 18 to the Annual Report and Accounts The Group financial statements consolidate those of Dunelm includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries together managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
on pages 142 to 151 present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
Use of estimates and judgements Dunelm Group plc and its subsidiaries are incorporated and The presentation of the annual financial statements in domiciled in the UK.
Dunelm Group plc is a listed public conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires the company, limited by shares and the company registration Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions number is 04708277.
The registered office is Watermead that affect the application of policies and reported amounts Business Park, Syston, Leicestershire, England, LE7 1AD.
of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical The primary business activity of the Group is the sale of experience and various other factors that are believed to homewares in the UK through a network of stores and be reasonable under the circumstances.
Basis of preparation Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on The Group financial statements have been prepared and an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are approved by the Directors in accordance with International recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations in any future periods affected.
Committee IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the The key estimates and judgements used in the financial European Union and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to statements are as follows: companies reporting under IFRS and these are presented on pages 112 to 141.
Estimate: Inventory provisions The Group provides against the carrying value of the The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise inventories held where it is anticipated that net realisable stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in value NRV will be below cost.
NRV is calculated as the these Group financial statements.
Future price reductions are assumed The annual financial statements are prepared under the to be in line with the Groups standard approach to clearing historical cost convention except for financial assets and discontinued and slow-moving inventory and are applied to financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments such proportion of inventory as deemed appropriate given and share-based payments, which have been stated at the level of cover in relation to recent sales history, on a linefair value.
The financial statements are prepared in pounds by-line basis.
sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
Judgement: Exceptional items The Group exercises its judgement in the classification of Going concern certain items as exceptional and outside of the Groups The Group has considerable financial resources together with underlying results.
The determination of whether an item long-standing relationships with a number of key suppliers should be separately disclosed as an exceptional item and an established reputation in the retail sector across the requires judgement on its materiality, nature and incidence, as UK.
In their consideration of going concern, the Directors well as whether it provides clarity on the Groups underlying have reviewed the Groups future cash forecasts and profit trading performance.
In exercising this judgement, the Group projections, which are based on market data and past takes appropriate regard of IAS 1 Presentation of financial experience.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Groups statements as well as guidance issued by the Financial forecasts and projections, which take into account reasonably Reporting Council on the reporting of exceptional items possible changes in trading performance, show that the and alternative performance measures.
The overall goal of Group is able to operate within its current facilities and the Groups financial statements is to present the Groups comply with its banking covenants for the foreseeable future.
underlying performance without distortion from one-off or As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is non-trading events regardless of whether they are favourable well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Having or unfavourable to the underlying result.
Further details of reassessed the principal risks, the Directors consider it the individual exceptional items, and the reasons for their appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting disclosure treatment, are set out in note 3. in preparing the financial information.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 43.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 117 Accounting Policies CONTINUED FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 Basis of consolidation Expenses Business Combinations Property leases The Group applies the acquisition method to account for Lease incentives received in respect of operating leases are business combinations.
The consideration transferred for recognised in the income statement evenly over the full term an acquisition is the fair values of the assets transferred, of the lease.
the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired Where leases for land and buildings provide for fixed rent assets and any equity interests issued by the group.
The review dates and amounts, the Group financial statements consideration transferred includes the fair value of any account for such reviews by recognising, on a straight-line asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration basis, the total implicit minimum lease payments over the arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and non-cancellable period of the lease term.
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Financial income and expenses Acquisition related costs are expensed as they are incurred.
Financial income and expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest method, Subsidiaries interest receivable on funds invested and foreign exchange Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control Retirement benefits commences until the date that control ceases.
The Group operates a defined contribution pension plan using a third-party provider.
Obligations for the contributions Transactions eliminated on consolidation to this plan are recognised as an expense in the income Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or statement as incurred.
income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial Share-based payments statements.
Consistent accounting policies have been The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based adopted across the Group.
compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments Revenue options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee Revenue is generated from the sale of homewares and related services received in exchange for the grant of the options is goods and services through the Groups stores and websites, recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed excluding sales between Group companies and is after is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: deducting returns, any discounts given and VAT.
Revenue is recognised when risk and reward passes to the customer, z Including any market performance condition for example, which is predominantly at the point of sale.
an entitys share price : The exceptions to this are for: custom-made products, z Excluding the impact of any service and non-market where revenue is recognised at the point that the goods are performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, collected: gift vouchers, where revenue is recognised when sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the the vouchers are redeemed: and web sales, where revenue is entity over a specified time period, and recognised at the point of delivery.
Revenue is settled in cash z Including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for at the point of sale.
example, the requirement for employees to save Non-market performance and service conditions are Exceptional items included in assumptions about the number of options that Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial are expected to vest.
The total expense is recognised over statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
They are items that are material either because of their size or their non-recurring nature and are presented within the line In some circumstances employees may provide services items to which they best relate.
in advance of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between service commencement period and grant date.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
com Stock code: DNLM 118 Financials When options are exercised, the Company either issues new Intangible assets shares, or uses treasury shares purchased for this purpose.
Intangible assets comprise software development and For new issued shares, the proceeds received net of any implementation costs, trademarks and brands and are stated directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment see capital nominal value and the share premium account.
Costs incurred in developing the Groups own brands are expensed as incurred.
Social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of Separately acquired brands and customer lists are shown at the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cashhistorical cost.
Software, brands and customer lists acquired settled transaction.
in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
These assets are deemed to have a Foreign currencies finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on currency are translated at the rates ruling at the balance the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use sheet date.
Resulting exchange gains or losses are the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their recognised in the income statement for the period in estimated useful lives.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Taxation Development costs that are directly attributable to the design Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and testing of identifiable and unique software products and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly when the following criteria are met: in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
z It is technically feasible to complete the software product Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the so that it will be available for use: taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or z Management intends to complete the software product substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with and use or sell it: any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
z There is an ability to use or sell the software product: Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability z It can be demonstrated how the software product will method, providing for temporary differences between generate probable future economic benefits: the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial z Adequate technical, financial and other resources to reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation complete the development and to use or sell the software purposes.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and product are available: and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when z The expenditure attributable to the software product the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax during its development can be reliably measured liability is settled.
Other development expenditures that do not meet these A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against Computer software development costs recognised as assets which the asset can be recognised.
are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when Amortisation there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the These are as follows: taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Software development and licences 3 years Rights to brands and customer lists 5 to 15 years Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved such that the Company is obligated to pay the dividend.
Interim dividends are recorded when paid.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 119 Accounting Policies CONTINUED FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 Property, plant and equipment Financial assets Owned assets Classifications Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical The Group classifies its financial assets in the following cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses categories: at fair value through profit or loss: loans and see below.
Cost includes the original purchased price of the receivables: and available-for-sale.
The classification depends asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
working condition for intended use.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this Depreciation category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this of an item of property, plant and equipment to write down the category are classified as current assets if expected to be cost to its estimated residual value.
settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as nonThe estimated useful lives are as follows: current.
Freehold buildings 50 years b Loans and receivables Leasehold improvements over the remaining Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets period of the lease with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except Refit improvements 7 years for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the Plant and machinery 4 years reporting period where they are classified as non-current Fixtures and fittings 3 to 5 years assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and balance sheet notes 15 and 16. adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
c Available-for-sale financial assets An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater either designated in this category or not classified in any of than its estimated recoverable amount.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to Derivative financial instruments dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting Derivative financial instruments used are forward foreign period.
exchange contracts and structured foreign exchange Recognition and measurement options.
These are measured at fair value.
The fair values are determined by reference to the market prices available from Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date the date on which the Group commits to the market on which the instruments involved are traded.
purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets hedges in line with the Groups treasury policy.
These are not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial instruments that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed highly probable forecasted transaction.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments For cash flow hedges the proportion of the gain or loss have expired or have been transferred and the Group has on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
effective hedge, as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair Recognition and Measurement, is recognised in equity, value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair directly in the hedge reserve with any ineffective portion value.
Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at recognised in the income statement.
Such hedges are amortised cost using the effective interest method.
tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be effective and on an ongoing basis to assess continuing effectiveness.
The gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the income statement.
com Stock code: DNLM 120 Financials Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the Bank borrowings and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category borrowing costs are presented in the income statement within Other losses Interest-bearing bank loans are initially recorded at their fair gains net in the period in which they arise.
Dividend income value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Transaction from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is costs incurred are amortised over the term of the loan.
recognised in the income statement as part of other income when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Borrowings are classed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in other comprehensive income.
When securities classified Impairment as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in annually at each balance sheet date to determine whether the income statement as Gains and losses from investment there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication securities.
exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Offsetting financial instruments The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount of disposal, and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the market assessments of the time-value of money and the risks asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The legally specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate enforceable right must not be contingent on future events largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount and must be enforceable in the normal course of business is determined for assets grouped at the lowest levels for and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the which there are largely independent cash flows, i. e. the cashCompany or the counterparty.
generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Trade and other receivables An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the value and then carried at amortised cost using the effective recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the interest method, net of impairment provisions.
Inventories Share capital Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital value.
Cost is derived using the average cost method and treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any includes costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until estimated selling price less cost to sell in the ordinary course the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are of business.
Provisions are made for obsolete, slow-moving or subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received discontinued stock and for stock losses.
net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity Cash and cash equivalents attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and Provisions deposits.
All cash equivalents have an original maturity of three months or less.
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a current legal or constructive obligation as a result Trade and other payables of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and the Trade and payables are recognised initially at their fair value amount has been reliably measured.
A provision for onerous and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the contracts, including property leases, is recognised when the effective interest method.
expected benefit to be derived by the Group from a contract is lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A dilapidations provision is recognised when there is an expectation of future obligations relating to the maintenance of leasehold properties arising from events such as lease renewals or terminations.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 121 Accounting Policies CONTINUED FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, will be Operating leases effective from the period ending June 2019 onwards.
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment and motor vehicles.
Where a significant portion of the risks and The Groups sales are mainly from individual products which rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor, these leases are sold directly to customers via our stores or websites.
The are classified as operating leases.
standard establishes a principle based approach for revenue recognition that we recognise revenue to reflect the transfer Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the of goods and services, measured as the amount to which income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods the lease.
New standards and interpretations The Group has assessed the impact of the changes proposed by IFRS 15 on our revenue processes and do not No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective for the first time for the period beginning on or after expect material impact on recognition of revenue when IFRS 15 is adopted.
2 July 2017 have had a material impact on the Group or Parent Company.
A further assessment was made on the proposed changes At the balance sheet date, there are a number of new relating to the recognition of delivery charges and this is not standards and amendments to existing standards in issue but expected to impact the financial statements as the Groups not yet effective.
IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 are not expected to have current method is aligned with the approach adopted in a significant effect on the financial statements of the Group the standard.
IFRS 16 is expected to have a significant IFRS 16, Leases, will be effective from the period ending June impact on the financial statements of the Group.
and consideration of these standards are set out below: The changes required under IFRS 16 will lead to the creation IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, addresses the classification, of a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance measurement and recognition of financial assets and sheet that did not previously exist.
The right-of-use asset will liabilities and replaces IAS 39.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the be subject to depreciation on a straight-line basis over the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary term of the lease.
An interest charge will be recognised on measurement categories for financial assets.
It is effective for the lease liability that will be higher in the earlier years of periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Company the lease term.
The total expense recognised in the Income has identified that the adoption of IFRS 9 will impact its Statement over the life of the lease will be unaffected by the consolidated financial statements in the following areas: new standard.
However, IFRS 16 will result in the timing of z The Group will need to apply an expected credit loss lease expense recognition being accelerated for leases which model when calculating impairment losses on its trade would be currently accounted for as operating leases.
This will result in increased The presentation of the Cash Flow Statement will change impairment provisions and greater judgement due to significantly, with an increase in net cash flows generated from the need to factor in forward looking information when operating activities being offset by an increase in net cash estimating the appropriate amount of provisions.
In flows used in financing activities.
This will, however, have no applying IFRS 9 the Group must consider the probability net impact on cash flows.
of a default occurring over the life of its trade receivables on initial recognition of those assets.
Under the existing The Group has established a Steering Committee which incurred loss model, there has been no impairment of regularly reports to the Audit Committee.
To date, progress the gross carrying amount of receivables over the last five has been made on a number of areas including collection of years so there is no expectation that there will be change relevant data, IT systems, identification of leases as prescribed under the new model by the standard, and consideration of transition options.
The z The Group has decided to adopt the hedge accounting accounting policy is also under review.
provisions in IFRS 9 to enable it to apply hedge accounting The Group intends to apply the retrospective modified to foreign exchange options taken out that were not approach on transition and will not restate the comparative designated as qualifying hedge relationships under IAS 39. information.
Under this approach, at the date of transition the In addition, a hedging relationship which failed to right-of-use asset will equal the lease liability for all leases.
qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 due to its As a result, there will be no impact on retained earnings.
80-125% hedge effectiveness criterion, will qualify for Furthermore, the Group has begun working through hedge accounting under IFRS 9.
As both of these changes the recently published technical amendments to the tax in policy will be applied prospectively from 1 July 2018 legislation following the introduction of IFRS 16.
Given the there is no change to net assets as at 30 June 2018 or complexities of IFRS 16 and the material sensitivity to key reported profit for the year then ended assumptions, such as discount rates, it is not yet practicable to fully quantify the effect of IFRS 16 on the financial statements of the Group.
