Shareholder information Financial diary Registered office and advisers Secretary and Registered Oce 4 September 2018 Annual General Meeting Iain Simm 4 October 2018 Ex-dividend date for final dividend DS Smith Plc 1 November 2018 Payment of final dividend 350 Euston Road London NW1 3AX 6 December 2018 Announcement of half-year results for Registered in England No: 1377658 the six months ended 31 October 2018 Auditor 4 April 2019 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend Deloitte LLP 1 May 2019 Payment of interim dividend 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ 13 June 2019 Announcement of full year results for the year ended 30 April 2018 Solicitor Slaughter and May Provisional date One Bunhill Row Company website London EC1Y 8YY The Companys website at www.
com contains the Principal clearing bank latest information for shareholders, including press releases The Royal Bank of Scotland and an updated financial diary.
E-mail alerts of the latest news, 280 Bishopsgate press releases and financial reports about DS Smith Plc may London EC2M 4RB be obtained by registering for the e-mail news alert service on the website.
Stockbroker Citigroup Share price information Citigroup Centre The latest price of the Companys ordinary shares is available 33 Canada Square from the FT Cityline service.
To access this service, telephone Canary Wharf 44 0 9058 171 690.
For call charges, please check with London E14 5LB your provider as costs may vary.
Alternatively click on J. P. Morgan Cazenove www.
DS Smiths ticker symbol 25 Bank Street is SMDS.
It is recommended that you consult your financial London E14 5JP adviser and verify information obtained from these services before making any investment decision.
Registrar Equiniti Registrar Aspect House Please contact the Registrar at the above right address Spencer Road toadvise of a change of address or for any enquiries relating Lancing todividend payments, lost share certicates or other share West Sussex BN99 6DA registration matters.
The Registrar provides on-line facilities at www.
Once you have registered you will be Registrars queries able to access information on your DS Smith Plc shareholding, Information on how to manage your shareholdings can update your personal details and amend your dividend be found at https: help.
The pages at this payment instructions on-line without having to call or web address provide answers to commonly asked questions write to the Registrar.
regarding shareholder registration, links to downloadable forms and guidance notes.
If your question is not answered by the Dividends information provided, you can send your enquiry via secure e-mail Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into from these pages.
You will be asked to complete a structured form abank or building society account should contact the Registrar.
and to provide your shareholder reference, name and address.
Inaddition, the Registrar is now able to pay dividends in 90 You will also need to provide your e-mail address if this is how you foreign currencies.
This service enables the payment of your would like to receive your response.
In the UK you can telephone dividends directly into your bank account in your home currency.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to For international payments, a charge is deducted from each Friday.
For call charges, please check with your provider as costs dividend payment to cover the costs involved.
For overseas, telephone 44 0 121 415 7047. theRegistrar to request further information.
Share dealing services The Registrar oers a real-time telephone and internet dealing service for the UK.
Further details including terms andrates can be obtained by logging on to the website at www.
Lines are open between 8am and 4.30pm, UK time, Monday to Friday.
DS Smith Plc Annual report & accounts 2018 DS Smith Plc Contact us: 350 Euston Road Investors London Results and presentations, investor and shareholder NW1 3AX information are available in the investors section Telephone 44 0 20 7756 1800 of our website: www.
com investors Keep in touch Annual reports Current and archived annual reports are available in the @dssmith investors section of our website: www.
com investors annual-reports @dssmith People DS Smith is made up of a team of c. 28,500 employees @dssmith across 37 countries.
More information about our people and career opportunities is available in the people @dssmith sectionof our website: www.
com people @dssmith Sustainability DS Smith publishes a separate sustainability report.
The report describes the environmental, social and economic perspectives of DS Smiths sustainability initiatives, with additional information available on our website: www.
com company sustainability DS Smith worldwide Find out more about our global divisions and the countries in which we operate and get in touch with us: www.
com contact locations Printed in the UK by Principal Colour Ltd on Revive 100% recycled offset and Revive 100% recycled silk.
Both manufactured at a mill certified to both ISO 14001 and FSC accredited.
Principal Colour Ltd are certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and FSC accredited.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc London www.
