INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EASYJET PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described In our opinion, easyJet plcs Consolidated Accounts and Company Accounts the financial statements : intheAuditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to ofthe Companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 and provide a basis for our opinion.
ofthe Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys Independence cashflows for the year then ended: We remained independent of the Group in accordance have been properly prepared in accordance with withthe ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs ofthefinancial statements in the UK, which includes the asadopted by the European Union and, as regards FRCsEthicalStandard, as applicable to listed public interest theCompanys Accounts, as applied in accordance entities, and wehave fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities withtheprovisions of the Companies Act 2006: and inaccordance with these requirements.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard Consolidated Accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
were not provided to the Group or the Company.
We have audited the financial statements, included Other than those disclosed in the Corporate governance withintheAnnual Report and Accounts the Annual report on page 84 wehave provided no non-audit services to Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company the Group ortheCompany in the period from 1 October 2017 statements of financial position as at 30 September 2018: to 30September 2018. theConsolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Our audit approach Company statements of cash flows, and the Consolidated The Group operates through the Company and its nine andCompany statements of changes in equity for the year subsidiary undertakings of which six are trading as set then ended: and the notes to the Accounts, which include outonpage 153 and the Consolidated Accounts are a adescription of the significant accounting policies.
The accounting for these entities is largely centralised in the UK and our audit scope Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the comprises an audit of the financial information for five of AuditCommittee.
thetrading subsidiaries and the Company.
These procedures gave us the evidence that we needed for our opinion on the Consolidated Accounts as a whole.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 28.8 million 2017: 19.3 million, based on 5% of headline profit before tax.
Overall Company materiality: 26.2 million 2017: 19.3 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Materiality Audit scope The Group operates through the Company and its nine subsidiaries: and the Consolidated Accounts are a consolidation of these entities.
The accounting for these entities, along with the Audit scope Group consolidation, is largely centralised in the UK.
Our audit scope comprises an audit of the financial information of five of the trading subsidiaries and the Company.
Area of Key audit matters focus Aircraft maintenance provision Group.
Fair value of derivative instruments Group and Company.
Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment Group.
Classification of non-headline items Group.
The scope of our audit We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality andassessed the risks of material misstatement in the itoperates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including financialstatements.
In particular, we looked at where theDirectors made subjective judgements, for example fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the inrespectof significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, areinherently uncertain.
as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
