Accounting policies, judgements and estimates Statement of compliance easyJet plc the Company and its subsidiaries easyJet or the Group as applicable make up a low-cost airline carrier operating principally in Europe.
The Company is a public limited company whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol EZJ and is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Hangar 89, London Luton Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9PF.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, taking into account IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared based on the historical cost convention except for certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these accounts.
easyJets business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development and performance, are described in the strategic report on pages 2 to 58.
Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 38 to 48.
Note 23 to the accounts sets out the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for managing its capital and gives details of the risks related to financial instruments held by the Group.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Details on going concern are provided on page 36.
The use of critical accounting estimates and management judgement is required in applying the accounting policies.
Areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are highlighted on pages 128 to 129.
Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently to both years presented.
The explanations of these policies focus on areas where judgement is applied or which are particularly significant in the financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate those of easyJet plc and its subsidiaries for the years ended 30 September 2017 and 2018.
A full list of subsidiaries can be found in the Notes to the Company accounts on page 153.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by easyJet plc.
Control is achieved when easyJet is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power, directly or indirectly, over the investee.
Intragroup balances, transactions and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated accounts.
Foreign currencies The primary economic environment in which a subsidiary operates determines its functional currency.
The consolidated accounts of easyJet are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million, which is the Companys functional currency and the Groups presentational currency.
Certain subsidiaries have operations that are primarily influenced by a currency other than Sterling.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of these foreign operations are taken to shareholders equity until all or part of the interest is sold, when the relevant portion of the accumulated exchange gains or losses is recognised in the income statement.
Profits and losses of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange during the year, since this approximates the rates on the dates of the transactions.
Transactions arising in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling using the rate of exchange ruling at the end of a reporting period and except where the asset or liability is designated as a cash flow hedge the gains or losses on translation are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the transactions were effected.
Revenue recognition The income statement has been re-presented in the current year to show passenger revenue and ancillary revenue.
In the 2017 financial year, easyJet categorised total revenue earned on the face of the income statement between seat revenue 2017: 4,958 million and non-seat revenue 2017: 89 million.
From 1 October 2017, total revenue is categorised between passenger and ancillary revenue.
This change provides greater transparency of the ancillary element of revenue and brings easyJet in line with other airlines.
Passenger revenue arises from the sale of flight seats and administration fees.
Passenger revenue is recognised when the service is provided.
This is generally when the flight takes place, apart from in the case of administration fees which are contractually non-refundable, so are recognised at the time of booking.
Amounts paid by no-show customers are recognised as passenger revenue when the booked service is provided, as such customers are not generally entitled to change flights or seek refunds once a flight has departed.
com ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1a.
Significant accounting policies continued Ancillary revenue includes revenue from the provision of checked baggage, allocated seating and change fees, as well as revenue arising from commissions earned from services sold on behalf of partners and inflight sales.
Ancillary revenue is recognised when the service is provided, which is generally when the related flight takes place, with the following exceptions: change fees as the service provided is that of allowing customers to change bookings: and in the case of commission earned from travel insurance, revenue is recognised at the time of booking as easyJet acts solely as appointed representative of the insurance company.
Unearned revenue represents flight seats, including the provision of checked baggage and allocated seating, sold but not yet flown and is held in the statement of financial position until it is realised in the income statement when the service is provided.
Business combinations Business combinations in prior years were accounted for by applying the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition was measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities were recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition was recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over easyJets interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
It has an indefinite expected useful life and is tested for impairment at least annually or where there is any indication of impairment.
Landing rights are stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
They are considered to have an indefinite useful life as they will remain available for use for the foreseeable future provided minimum utilisation requirements are observed, and are tested for impairment at least annually or where there is any indication of impairment.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation, which is calculated to write off their cost, less estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives.
Expected useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Expected useful life Computer software 3-7 years Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of assets, on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives.
Expected useful life Aircraft 23 years Aircraft spares 14 years Aircraft prepaid maintenance 7-10 years Leasehold improvements 5-10 years or the length of lease if shorter Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 years or length of lease of property where equipment is used if shorter Computer hardware 3-5 years Aircraft held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their expected useful lives, as shown above.
Residual values, where applicable, are reviewed annually against prevailing market rates at the end of the reporting period for equivalently aged assets and depreciation rates are adjusted accordingly on a prospective basis.
The carrying value is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For aircraft, easyJet is dependent on Airbus as its sole supplier.
This gives rise to a valuation risk which crystallises when aircraft exit the fleet, where easyJet is reliant on the future demand for second-hand aircraft.
An element of the cost of a new aircraft is attributed on acquisition to prepaid maintenance and is depreciated over a period ranging from seven to ten years from the date of manufacture.
Subsequent costs incurred which lend enhancement to future periods, such as long-term scheduled maintenance and major overhaul of aircraft and engines, are capitalised and depreciated over the length of the period benefiting from these enhancements.
All other maintenance costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Pre-delivery and option payments made in respect of aircraft are recorded in property, plant and equipment at cost.
These amounts are not depreciated.
Interest attributed to pre-delivery and option payments made in respect of aircraft and other qualifying assets under construction are capitalised and added to the cost of the asset concerned.
Gains and losses on disposals other than aircraft sale and leaseback transactions where proceeds are not judged to be equal to fair value are determined by comparing the net proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
124 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2018 124 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other non-current assets Payments for aircraft and engine maintenance, as stipulated in the respective operating lease agreements, have historically been made to some lessors as security for the performance of future heavy maintenance works.
The payments are recorded within current and non-current assets as applicable as receivables from the lessors until the respective maintenance event occurs and the reimbursement with the lessor is finalised.
Any payment that is not expected to be reimbursed by the lessor is recognised immediately within operating expenses in the income statement.
Impairment of non-current assets An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets or cash-generating units fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
Impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses recognised on assets other than goodwill are only reversed where changes in the estimates used result in an increase in recoverable amount.
Leases easyJet enters into sale and leaseback transactions whereby it sells either new or mid-life aircraft to a third party and immediately leases them back under an operating lease.
Where sale proceeds received are judged to reflect the aircrafts fair value, any gain or loss arising on disposal is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where sale proceeds received are above the aircrafts fair value, any surplus arising is deferred within non-current liabilities, and amortised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lease term.
Where sale proceeds are below fair value, any profit or loss is recognised immediately except that, if the loss is compensated for by future lease payments at below market price, the shortfall is deferred within non-current assets and amortised in proportion to the lease payments over the period for which the asset is expected to be used.
In some operating sale and leaseback arrangements, receipt of part of the proceeds is deferred until the end of the lease, the amount of which is recorded as deferred consideration within non-current or current assets as appropriate.
Non-contingent operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
A number of operating leases require easyJet to make contingent rental payments based on variable interest rates: these are expensed as incurred.
Finance leases, which transfer to easyJet substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are recognised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Any directly attributable costs of entering into financing sale and leasebacks are included in the value of the asset recognised.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are included in interest payable and other financing charges.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised when easyJet becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
Where market values are not available, the fair value of financial instruments is calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.
Non-derivative financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are recorded at amortised cost and include trade receivables, cash and money market deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held in bank accounts with no access restrictions and bank deposits and tri-party repos repayable on demand or maturing within three months of inception.
Interest income on cash and money market deposits is recognised using the effective interest method.
Restricted cash comprises cash deposits which have restrictions governing their use and is classified as a current or non-current asset based on the estimated remaining length of the restriction.
Impairment losses are recognised on financial assets carried at amortised cost where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
If, subsequently, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event that occurred after the impairment was recognised, the appropriate portion of the loss is reversed.
Both impairment losses and reversals are recognised in the income statement as components of net finance charges.
Non-derivative financial liabilities Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs, and subsequently at amortised cost, and include trade and other payables and borrowings.
Interest expense on borrowings is recognised using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period date.
Significant accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities easyJet uses foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency risks on transactions denominated in US dollars, Euros, Swiss francs and South African rand.
These transactions primarily affect revenue, fuel and aircraft dry leasing costs, and the capitalised cost of owned aircraft.
easyJet also uses cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge currency and interest rate risk on certain borrowings, and jet fuel forward contracts to hedge fuel price risks.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Hedge accounting is applied to those derivative financial instruments that are designated as cash flow hedges or fair value hedges.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedges Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of forward contracts are recognised in other comprehensive income and deferred in the hedging reserve to the extent that the hedges are determined to be effective.
All other changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
When the hedged forecast transaction relates to an item of property, plant and equipment, the relevant accumulated gains and losses are transferred from the hedging reserve and included in the initial carrying amount of that purchased asset.
Otherwise they are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged transaction affects the income statement.
In the event that a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related gains and losses are immediately transferred from the hedging reserve and recognised in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Where the hedged item continues to be expected to occur, the related gains and losses remain deferred in the hedging reserve until the transaction takes place.
Financial guarantees If a claim on a financial guarantee given to a third party becomes probable, the obligation is measured at the best estimate of that outflow.
Tax Tax expense in the income statement consists of current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income or shareholders equity, in which cases it is recognised in other comprehensive income or shareholders equity.
The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as adjusted for income that is exempt and expenses that are not deductible using tax rates that are applicable to the taxable income.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences relating to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, where it is probable that the recovery or settlement will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither taxable income nor accounting profit: and deferred tax arising on investments in subsidiaries is not recognised where easyJet is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which recovery of assets and settlement of liabilities are expected to take place, based on tax rates or laws enacted or substantively enacted at the date of the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets represent amounts recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, losses and tax credits carried forward.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which they can be deducted.
Deferred tax liabilities represent the amount of income taxes payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
Aircraft maintenance provisions The accounting for the cost of providing major airframe and certain engine maintenance checks for owned and finance leased aircraft is described in the accounting policy for property, plant and equipment.
easyJet has contractual obligations to maintain aircraft held under operating leases.
Provisions are created over the term of the lease based on the estimated future costs of major airframe checks, engine shop visits and end of lease liabilities.
These costs are discounted to present value.
Where an aircraft is sold and leased back, other than when first delivered to easyJet, a maintenance catch-up liability resulting from past flying activity arises at the point the lease agreement is signed and a corresponding maintenance catch-up charge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
126 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2018 126 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 A number of leases also require easyJet to pay recoverable supplemental rent to the lessor.
The purpose of these payments is to provide the lessor with collateral should an aircraft be returned in a condition that does not meet the requirements of the lease.
This recoverable supplemental rent is included in trade and other receivables within current assets and other non-current assets, as applicable, and is refunded when qualifying heavy maintenance is performed, or is offset against the costs incurred at the end of the lease.
Provisions for customer claims Provisions are recognised when a present legal or constructive obligation arises as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Amounts provided for represent the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account all related risks and uncertainties.
Provision is made for customer compensation claims when the Group has an obligation to recompense customers under Flight Compensation Regulation 261 2004.
Provisions are measured based on known eligible events, customers impacted and historical claim rates.
Employee benefits easyJet contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of employees.
easyJet has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of easyJet in independently administered funds.
easyJet's contributions are charged to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
The expected cost of compensated holidays is recognised at the time that the related employees' services are provided.
Share capital and dividend distribution Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company or employee benefit trust purchases the Companys equity shares, the consideration paid and any directly attributable incremental costs are deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Proceeds from re-issue are shown as a credit to retained earnings.
easyJet settles share awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan, the Save As You Earn scheme, the Restricted Share Plan and Share Incentive Plans by purchasing its own shares on the market through employee benefit trusts.
The cost of such purchases is deducted from retained earnings in the period that the transaction occurs.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Share-based payments easyJet has a number of equity-settled share incentive schemes.
The fair value of share options granted under the Save As You Earn scheme is measured at the date of grant using the Binomial Lattice option pricing model.
The fair value of grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan is measured at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model for awards based on ROCE performance targets, and the Stochastic model also known as the Monte Carlo model for awards based on TSR performance targets.
The fair value of all other awards is the share price at the date of grant.
The fair value of the estimated number of options and awards that are expected to vest is expensed to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period that employees services are rendered, with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
Where non-market performance criteria such as ROCE attached to the share options and awards are not met, any cumulative expense previously recognised is reversed.
For awards with market-related performance criteria such as TSR, an expense is recognised irrespective of whether the market condition is satisfied.
The social security obligations payable in connection with grant of the share options are an integral part of the grant itself and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction, with movements in the accrual being recognised directly in the income statement.
Segmental disclosures easyJet has one operating segment, being its route network, based on management information provided to the Airline Management Board AMB, which is easyJets chief operating decision maker.
Resource allocation decisions are made for the benefit of the route network as a whole, rather than for individual routes within the network.
Performance of the network is assessed based on the consolidated profit or loss before tax for the year.
Revenue is allocated to geographic segments on the following bases: revenue earned from passengers is allocated according to the location of the first departure airport on each booking: and commission revenue earned from partners is allocated according to the domicile of each partner.
