Accounting policies, judgements and estimates Statement of compliance easyJet plc the Company and its subsidiaries easyJet or the Group as applicable make up a low-cost airline carrier operating principally in Europe.
The Company is a public limited company whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol EZJ and is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Hangar 89, London Luton Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9PF.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, taking into account IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared based on the historical cost convention except for certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these accounts.
easyJets business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development and performance, are described in the strategic report on pages 2 to 58.
Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 38 to 48.
Note 23 to the accounts sets out the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for managing its capital and gives details of the risks related to financial instruments held by the Group.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Details on going concern are provided on page 36.
The use of critical accounting estimates and management judgement is required in applying the accounting policies.
Areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are highlighted on pages 128 to 129.
Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently to both years presented.
The explanations of these policies focus on areas where judgement is applied or which are particularly significant in the financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate those of easyJet plc and its subsidiaries for the years ended 30 September 2017 and 2018.
A full list of subsidiaries can be found in the Notes to the Company accounts on page 153.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by easyJet plc.
Control is achieved when easyJet is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power, directly or indirectly, over the investee.
Intragroup balances, transactions and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated accounts.
Foreign currencies The primary economic environment in which a subsidiary operates determines its functional currency.
The consolidated accounts of easyJet are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million, which is the Companys functional currency and the Groups presentational currency.
Certain subsidiaries have operations that are primarily influenced by a currency other than Sterling.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of these foreign operations are taken to shareholders equity until all or part of the interest is sold, when the relevant portion of the accumulated exchange gains or losses is recognised in the income statement.
Profits and losses of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange during the year, since this approximates the rates on the dates of the transactions.
Transactions arising in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling using the rate of exchange ruling at the end of a reporting period and except where the asset or liability is designated as a cash flow hedge the gains or losses on translation are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the transactions were effected.
Revenue recognition The income statement has been re-presented in the current year to show passenger revenue and ancillary revenue.
In the 2017 financial year, easyJet categorised total revenue earned on the face of the income statement between seat revenue 2017: 4,958 million and non-seat revenue 2017: 89 million.
From 1 October 2017, total revenue is categorised between passenger and ancillary revenue.
This change provides greater transparency of the ancillary element of revenue and brings easyJet in line with other airlines.
Passenger revenue arises from the sale of flight seats and administration fees.
Passenger revenue is recognised when the service is provided.
This is generally when the flight takes place, apart from in the case of administration fees which are contractually non-refundable, so are recognised at the time of booking.
Amounts paid by no-show customers are recognised as passenger revenue when the booked service is provided, as such customers are not generally entitled to change flights or seek refunds once a flight has departed.
