NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1b.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates The value in use of the cash-generating unit is determined by discounting future cash flows to their present value.
When applying this The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and method, easyJet relies on a number of key estimates including its ability to meet its strategic plans, future fuel prices and exchange rates, assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of long-term economic growth rates for the principal countries in which it operates, and its pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Both fuel income and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these amounts are based on managements best estimates, events or price and exchange rates are volatile in nature, and the assumptions used are sensitive to significant changes in these rates.
actions may mean that actual results ultimately differ from those estimates, and these differences may be material.
New and revised standards and interpretations not applied and the underlying assumptions are reviewed regularly.
The following new or revised standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB have not 1b.
i Critical accounting judgements been applied in preparing these accounts as their effective dates fall in periods beginning on or after 1 October 2018 and in some The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations which are dealt with separately below, that the cases have not been endorsed by the EU.
Directors have made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for the year ending 30 September 2019 amounts recognised and presented in the financial statements.
easyJet will adopt IFRS 15 on 1 October 2018 applying the cumulative catch-up transition method.
Under the cumulative catch-up Classification of operating and finance leases Notes 10 and 24 method the comparative information will not be restated, but the retrospective cumulative impact of IFRS 15 will be recognised Management exercises judgement in determining the classification of leases as either finance or operating leases in nature at inception of within the opening balance of retained earnings as at 1 October 2018. the lease.
Management considers the likelihood of exercising break clauses or extension options in determining the lease term.
Where the The standard provides a single model for measuring and recognising revenue arising from contracts with customers.
It supersedes all lease term constitutes substantially all of the economic life of the asset, or where the present value of minimum lease payments amounts existing revenue requirements in IFRS.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised when customers obtain control of goods or services and to substantially all of the fair value of the aircraft, the lease is classified as a finance lease.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
so are able to direct the use, and obtain the benefits, of those goods or services.
Classification of income or expenses as headline or non-headline items Note 5 easyJet has reviewed all revenue streams as part of its IFRS 15 impact assessment and has identified two principal areas which will The Group seeks to present a measure of underlying performance which is not impacted by material non-recurring items or items be impacted on adoption of IFRS 15: which are not considered to be reflective of the trading performance of the business.
This measure of profit is described as headline and is used by the Directors to measure and monitor performance.
The excluded items are referred to as non-headline items.
Revenue recognition from certain revenue streams, principally administration and change fees, will be recognised on the date of flight rather than the date of booking.
This change is expected to result in a higher proportion of annual revenues being Non-headline items may include impairments, amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals, expenditure on major restructuring recognised in the second half of the financial year.
The full year impact of this change is expected to be immaterial.
programmes, litigation and insurance settlements, balance sheet exchange gains or losses, the income or expense resulting from the Some of the compensation payments made to customers in respect of flight delays, previously recorded wholly within initial recognition of sale and leaseback transactions, fair value adjustments to financial instruments and other particularly significant expenses, will be offset against revenues recognised, with the excess compensation continuing to be recorded within expenses.
Items relating to the normal trading performance of the business will always be included within the This presentational change will have no impact on the overall profit for the year.
The cumulative impact of these changes as at 1 October 2018 will be the recognition of a one-off increase to unearned revenue Judgement is required in determining the classification of items as headline or non-headline.
in respect of bookings made in the year ended 30 September 2018, for flights in the following financial year.
Under current Consolidation of easyJet Switzerland S. A. accounting standards, these revenues are recognised in the income statement in the year ended 30 September 2018 on a booked Judgement has been applied in consolidating easyJet Switzerland S. A. as a subsidiary on the basis that the Company exercises a basis : on adoption of IFRS 15 these fees will be deferred in the statement of financial position, with a charge recognised in retained dominant influence over the undertaking.
A non-controlling interest has not been reflected in the consolidated accounts on the basis earnings, until the date of the flight at which point the revenues will be recognised again.
The expected impact as at 1 October 2018 that holders of the remaining 51% of the shares have no entitlement to any dividends from that holding and the Company has an is a charge to retained earnings of approximately 65 million, with a corresponding increase in unearned revenue of approximately option to acquire those shares for a pre-determined minimal consideration.
80 million and an increase in current tax asset of approximately 15 million.
ii Critical accounting estimates IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for the year ending 30 September 2019 The following three critical accounting estimates involve a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or are areas where assumptions easyJet will adopt IFRS 9 on 1 October 2018 applying the standard prospectively with no retrospective adjustments required.
are significant to the financial statements.
The accounting estimates concerned are not major sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next year.
The standard removes the multiple classification and measurement models for financial assets required by IAS 39 and instead introduces a model that has three classification categories: amortised cost: fair value through the income statement and fair value Aircraft maintenance provisions 392 million Note 17 through other comprehensive income.
Classification of a debt asset instrument is driven by its cash flow characteristics and the easyJet incurs liabilities for maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases during the term of the lease.
business model in which the asset is held.
Accounting for financial liabilities and for derecognising financial instruments under IFRS 9 These arise from legal and constructive contractual obligations relating to the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to the is materially consistent with that required by IAS 39. lessor.
To discharge these obligations, easyJet will also normally need to carry out one heavy maintenance check on each of the IFRS 9 adds new requirements to address the impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting, though these will have an engines and the airframe during the lease term.
Existing hedging activities will not materially change on adoption of the standard.
A charge is made in the income statement, based on hours or cycles flown, to provide for the cost of these obligations.
The most critical estimates required are considered to be the utilisation of the aircraft, the expected costs of the heavy maintenance checks easyJet anticipates some changes to the classification and measurement of its financial instruments, though these changes will not materially impact the financial statements due to the stable nature of the Groups investments.
Similarly, easyJet will not have a material at the time at which they are expected to occur, the condition of the aircraft, the lifespan of life-limited parts and the rate used to discount the provision.
impact from the changes to hedge accounting or impairment due to the high credit quality of counterparties with which easyJet transacts.
The bases of all estimates are reviewed annually, and also when information becomes available that is capable of causing a material IFRS 16 Leases effective for the year ending 30 September 2020 easyJet will early adopt IFRS 16 on 1 October 2018, bringing the timing of adoption in line with that of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15. change to an estimate, such as renegotiation of end of lease return conditions, increased or decreased utilisation, or changes in the cost of heavy maintenance services.
No reasonable combination of changes to these estimates would result in a material movement The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, specifying how leases are recognised, measured, presented and disclosed.
to the carrying value of the provision.
The main expected impacts of adopting IFRS 16 have been disclosed below.
Provisions for customer claims 61 million Note 17 easyJet will apply the cumulative catch-up modified transition method.
Under the cumulative catch-up method the comparative easyJet incurs liabilities for amounts payable to customers who make claims in respect of flight delays, refunds of air passenger duty information will not be restated, but the retrospective cumulative impact of IFRS 16 will be recognised within the opening balance of or similar charges and welfare costs.
Estimates include passenger claim rates, the value of claims made and the period of time over retained earnings as at 1 October 2018. which claims will be made.
The bases of all estimates are reviewed at least annually and also when information becomes available that is capable of causing a material change to the estimate.
No reasonable combination of changes to these estimates would result easyJet has elected to use the following practical expedients proposed by the standard: in a material movement to the carrying value of the provision.
on initial application, the application of a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics: Goodwill and landing rights 494 million Note 9 on initial application, the use of hindsight when determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease: Goodwill and landing rights are tested for impairment at least annually.
easyJet has one cash-generating unit, being its route on initial application, the exclusion of initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset: network.
In making this assessment, easyJet has considered the manner in which the business is managed including the centralised on initial application, IFRS 16 will only be applied to contracts that were previously classified as leases: and nature of its operations and the ability to open or close routes and redeploy aircraft and crew across the whole route network.
lease payments for contracts with a duration of 12 months or less and contracts for which the underlying asset is of a low value will continue to be expensed to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
128 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2018 www.
com ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1c.
New and revised standards and interpretations not applied continued Capitalisation of lease contracts Under IFRS 16, easyJet will capitalise the right of use of all aircraft and properties currently held under operating leases.
The lease term will correspond to the duration of the contracts signed except in cases where the Group is reasonably certain that it will exercise contractual extension options.
easyJet will recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a corresponding lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
Operating lease expenses will be replaced by a depreciation expense on right-of-use assets recognised and an interest expense as the interest rate implicit in easyJets lease liabilities unwinds.
When the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined, easyJets incremental borrowing rate will be used as an alternative.
Accounting for the maintenance of leased aircraft easyJet has contractual obligations to maintain aircraft currently held under operating leases.
Currently, provisions are created over the term of the lease based on the estimated future costs of major airframe checks, engine shop visits and end of lease liabilities.
These costs are discounted to present value with the corresponding income statement charge recognised within maintenance costs.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised within interest costs.
Under IFRS 16, contractual maintenance obligations which are not dependent on the use of the aircraft will be recognised in full on commencement of the lease.
They will be capitalised as part of the right-of-use asset at the inception of the lease and depreciated over the lease term.
Contractual maintenance obligations which are dependent on the use of the aircraft will continue to be provided for over the term of the lease based on the estimated future costs, discounted to present value.
However they will be capitalised to the right-of-use asset rather than recognised within maintenance costs in the income statement.
This asset will be depreciated immediately as the obligation has arisen as a result of flying hours already undertaken.
Where an aircraft is sold and leased back, other than when first delivered to easyJet, a maintenance catch-up liability resulting from past flying activity arises at the point the lease agreement is signed and a corresponding maintenance provision catch-up charge is currently recognised immediately in the income statement.
Under IFRS 16 this maintenance provision catch-up will be capitalised as part of the right-of-use asset at the inception of the lease and depreciated over the lease term.
These changes will result in a decrease in maintenance costs and an increase in depreciation expense.
On adoption of IFRS 16 on 1 October 2018, easyJet anticipates recognising approximately 550 million of lease liabilities, approximately 510 million of right-of-use assets, an increase in maintenance provisions of approximately 20 million, a 19 million derecognition of the net surplus on historical sale and leaseback transactions capitalised on the statement of financial position, and a corresponding decrease in equity of approximately 40 million.
These figures do not include the tax impact which is subject to finalisation.
Annual operating lease expenses and maintenance charges, which would have been recognised under existing accounting standards, will be replaced by anticipated similar levels of depreciation and interest expense such that no material impact on profit before tax is expected in the year of transition.
Headline return on capital employed is expected to improve by approximately 1.5 percentage points under IFRS 16, as the newly capitalised lease liabilities are less than the adjustment historically made for the capital implicit in aircraft operating lease arrangements the annual charge for aircraft dry leasing multiplied by a factor of seven.
Effective for the year ending 30 September 2019 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Amendments relating to classification and measurement Effective for the year ending 30 September 2019 not yet EU endorsed IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Clarifying the accounting for transactions that include the receipt or payment of advance consideration in a foreign currency IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments regarding measuring investments in associates or joint ventures at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL 130 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2018 130 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
