ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1b.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these amounts are based on managements best estimates, events or actions may mean that actual results ultimately differ from those estimates, and these differences may be material.
The estimates and the underlying assumptions are reviewed regularly.
i Critical accounting judgements The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations which are dealt with separately below, that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised and presented in the financial statements.
Classification of operating and finance leases Notes 10 and 24 Management exercises judgement in determining the classification of leases as either finance or operating leases in nature at inception of the lease.
Management considers the likelihood of exercising break clauses or extension options in determining the lease term.
Where the lease term constitutes substantially all of the economic life of the asset, or where the present value of minimum lease payments amounts to substantially all of the fair value of the aircraft, the lease is classified as a finance lease.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Classification of income or expenses as headline or non-headline items Note 5 The Group seeks to present a measure of underlying performance which is not impacted by material non-recurring items or items which are not considered to be reflective of the trading performance of the business.
This measure of profit is described as headline and is used by the Directors to measure and monitor performance.
The excluded items are referred to as non-headline items.
Non-headline items may include impairments, amounts relating to acquisitions and disposals, expenditure on major restructuring programmes, litigation and insurance settlements, balance sheet exchange gains or losses, the income or expense resulting from the initial recognition of sale and leaseback transactions, fair value adjustments to financial instruments and other particularly significant or unusual non-recurring items.
Items relating to the normal trading performance of the business will always be included within the headline performance.
Judgement is required in determining the classification of items as headline or non-headline.
Consolidation of easyJet Switzerland S. A. Judgement has been applied in consolidating easyJet Switzerland S. A. as a subsidiary on the basis that the Company exercises a dominant influence over the undertaking.
A non-controlling interest has not been reflected in the consolidated accounts on the basis that holders of the remaining 51% of the shares have no entitlement to any dividends from that holding and the Company has an option to acquire those shares for a pre-determined minimal consideration.
ii Critical accounting estimates The following three critical accounting estimates involve a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or are areas where assumptions are significant to the financial statements.
The accounting estimates concerned are not major sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next year.
Aircraft maintenance provisions 392 million Note 17 easyJet incurs liabilities for maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases during the term of the lease.
These arise from legal and constructive contractual obligations relating to the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to the lessor.
To discharge these obligations, easyJet will also normally need to carry out one heavy maintenance check on each of the engines and the airframe during the lease term.
A charge is made in the income statement, based on hours or cycles flown, to provide for the cost of these obligations.
The most critical estimates required are considered to be the utilisation of the aircraft, the expected costs of the heavy maintenance checks at the time at which they are expected to occur, the condition of the aircraft, the lifespan of life-limited parts and the rate used to discount the provision.
The bases of all estimates are reviewed annually, and also when information becomes available that is capable of causing a material change to an estimate, such as renegotiation of end of lease return conditions, increased or decreased utilisation, or changes in the cost of heavy maintenance services.
No reasonable combination of changes to these estimates would result in a material movement to the carrying value of the provision.
Provisions for customer claims 61 million Note 17 easyJet incurs liabilities for amounts payable to customers who make claims in respect of flight delays, refunds of air passenger duty or similar charges and welfare costs.
Estimates include passenger claim rates, the value of claims made and the period of time over which claims will be made.
The bases of all estimates are reviewed at least annually and also when information becomes available that is capable of causing a material change to the estimate.
Goodwill and landing rights 494 million Note 9 Goodwill and landing rights are tested for impairment at least annually.
easyJet has one cash-generating unit, being its route network.
In making this assessment, easyJet has considered the manner in which the business is managed including the centralised nature of its operations and the ability to open or close routes and redeploy aircraft and crew across the whole route network.
128 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2018 128 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
