ACCOUNTS glossary Adjusted capital employed Capital employed plus seven times operating lease costs incurred in the year.
Adjusted net cash debt Net cash debt less seven times operating lease costs incurred in the year.
Aircraft dry wet leasing Payments to lessors under dry leasing arrangements relate solely to the provision of an aircraft.
Payments to lessors under wet leasing arrangements relate to the provision of aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance.
Aircraft owned leased at end of year Number of aircraft owned or held under lease arrangements of over one months duration at the end of the period.
Ancillary revenue Includes revenue from the provision of checked baggage, allocated seating, change fees and commissions.
Available seat kilometres ASK Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown.
Average adjusted capital employed The average of opening and closing capital employed.
Block hours Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that the aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport.
Capital employed Shareholders equity less net cash debt.
Cost per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available seat kilometres.
Cost per seat Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
Cost per seat, excluding fuel Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided by seats flown.
Customer satisfaction CSAT Customer satisfaction index, based on results of a customer satisfaction survey which measures how satisfied the customer was with their most recent flight.
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation and aircraft dry leasing costs.
Gearing Adjusted net cash debt divided by the sum of shareholders equity and adjusted net cash debt.
Headline A measure of underlying performance which is not impacted by material non-recurring items or items which are not considered to be reflective of the trading performance of the business.
Non-headline Material non-recurring items or items which are not considered to be reflective of the trading performance of the business.
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths.
Net cash debt Total cash less borrowings cash includes money market deposits but excludes restricted cash.
Normalised operating profit Reported operating profit adjusted for one-third of operating lease costs incurred in the year, after tax less tax at the prevailing UK corporation tax rate at the end of the financial year.
On-time performance OTP Percentage of flights which arrive within 15 minutes of scheduled arrival time.
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per scheduled aircraft operated.
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Passengers Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats comprise seats sold to passengers including no-shows, seats provided for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for business travel.
Passenger revenue Revenue arising from the sale of flight seats and administration fees.
Profit before tax per seat Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
Revenue passenger kilometres RPK Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres those passengers were flown.
Revenue per ASK Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
Revenue per seat Revenue divided by seats flown.
ROCE Return on capital employed.
ROCE excluding lease adjustments Operating profit, less tax at the prevailing UK corporation tax rate at the end of the financial year, divided by average capital employed.
ROCE including lease adjustments Normalised operating profit after tax divided by average adjusted capital employed.
Seats flown Seats available for passengers.
156 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2018 156 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Printed by Park Communications onFSC certified paper.
This document is printed on GalerieSatin, a paper containing 15%recycled fibre and 85% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used inthis product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
Designed and produced by Black Sun plc WED LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE WHO HAS HELPED TO PRODUCE THIS REPORT: Paul Ablin, Jacinda Alderson, Charlotte Allin, Adle Anderson, Joy Baldry, Michael Barker, Ella Bennett, Mita Bhattacharjee, Lis Blair, Neil Brooks, Maxwell Bruce, Gail Butler, Matthew Callaghan, Louise Cardani, Robert Carey, Phil Chastell, Lou Darley, Rob Denham, Sheena Dunbar, Alex Field, AndrewFindlay, James Fisher, Matt Garner, Bill Gosbee, Mike Hirst, FlicHoward-Allen, Daud Khan, Emma Knowler, Matt Landsman, TimLangridge, David Lawton, Rosie Lobb, Johan Lundgren, Nik Mills, TomMinion, Stuart Morgan, Julie Morris, Matthew Newman, Mark Ramsden, Naomi Richards, Sarahjane Robertson, Zarina Sabir, Ryan Simmons, ChrisSominka, Ben Souter, Jade Steele, Ashby-Louise Summers, MahmudTahir, Rebecca Waite, Danielle Wakeman, Charlotte Warner, Mario Yiannopoulos and all of our employees across the network.
Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9PF www.
