Corporate information Information about the Manager Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited Aberdeen Standard Investments Asia Limited ASI Asia Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited AFML, authorised ASI Asia is the investment manager of the Company.
ASI and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, has Asia is based in Singapore and is a wholly-owned been appointed as the alternative investment fund subsidiary of Standard Life Aberdeen plc.
Assets under the manager to the Company.
AFML has in turn delegated management of the combined investment division, portfolio management to Aberdeen Standard Investments Aberdeen Standard Investments, were equivalent to Asia Limited.
ASI Asia has 560 staff across the region at 30 June 2018.
Total funds in the region are over 49.8 billion as at 30 June 2018.
The Investment Team Senior Managers Flavia Cheong Adrian Lim Hugh Young Head of Equities, Asia Pacific exc Investment Director Managing Director Japan Chartered Financial Analyst, B. Acc from BA in Politics from Exeter University.
Masters in Economics from Nanyang Technological University Started investment career in 1980.
In charge of ASI Asias Far East funds with Investment Company of the Previously he was an associate director at since 1985.
Peoples Republic of China and Arthur Andersen.
Pruksa Iamthongthong Investment Director Chartered Financial Analyst, BA in Business Administration from Chulalongkorn University, Thailand.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 63 Corporate information Information about the Manager continued The Investment Process Risk Controls Philosophy and Style The Investment Managers investment philosophy is that We seek to minimise risk by our in depth research.
We do markets are not always efficient.
ASI believe that superior not view divergence from a benchmark as risk we view investment returns are therefore attainable by identifying investment in poorly run expensive companies that we do good companies cheaply, defined in terms of the not understand as a risk.
In fact where risk parameters are fundamentals that in our opinion drive share prices over expressed in benchmark relative terms, asset including the long term.
We undertake substantial due diligence sector allocation constitutes a significant constraint on before initiating any investment including company visits stock selection.
Hence diversification of stocks provides in order to assure ourselves of the quality of the our main control.
We are then careful not to pay too high a price when making the investment.
The Investment Managers performance and investment risk unit independently monitors portfolio positions, and Subsequent to that investment we then keep in close reports monthly.
As well as attributing performance it also touch with the company, aiming to meet management at produces statistical analysis, which is used by the least twice a year.
Given our long-term fundamental Investment Manager primarily to check the portfolio is investment philosophy, one would not expect much behaving as expected, not as a predictive tool.
change in the companies in which we invest.
We do, however, take opportunities offered to us by what we see as anomalous price movements within stock markets to either top up or top slice positions, which accounts for the bulk of the activity within the portfolio during the year under review.
