Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 August 2018 1.
Principal activity The Company is a closed-end investment company, registered in Scotland No SC106049, with its Ordinary shares being listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 and with the guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture capital Trusts issued in November 2014 and updated in February 2018 with consequential amendments.
The financial statements are prepared in sterling which is the functional currency of the Company and rounded to the nearest 000.
They have also been prepared on a going concern basis, on the assumption the continuation vote is passed by Shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and on the assumption that approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is included in the Statement of Corporate Governance unaudited on page 32.
Key Accounting Judgements The Companys investments and borrowings are made in a number of currencies, however the Board considers the Companys functional currency to be Sterling.
In arriving at this conclusion, the Board considered that the shares of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchange, it is regulated in the United Kingdom, principally having its shareholder base in the United Kingdom, pays dividends and expenses in Sterling.
Consequently, the Board also considers the Companys presentational currency to be Sterling.
b Investments Listed investments have been designated upon initial recognition as fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are recognised and fide-recognised on the trade date at fair value, which is generally deemed to be the cost of the investment at that point.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments are valued at fair value, which for listed investments is deemed to be bid market prices or closing prices for SETS London Stock Exchanges electronic trading service stocks sourced from the London Stock Exchange.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included as a capital item in the Income Statement and are ultimately recognised in the capital reserve.
c Income Dividends other than special dividends, including taxes deducted at source, are included in revenue by reference to the date on which the investment is quoted ex-dividend.
Special dividends are reviewed on a case-by-case basis and may be credited to capital, if circumstances dictate.
Dividends receivable on equity shares where no ex-dividend date is quoted are brought into account when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares are recognised on a time-apportioned basis so as to reflect the effective yield on shares.
Other returns on non-equity shares are recognised when the right to return is established.
The fixed return on a debt security, if material, is recognised on a time apportioned basis so as to reflect the effective yield on each security.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of the foregone cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserves.
Interest receivable on bank balances is dealt with on an accruals basis.
d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged through the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income with the exception of expenses directly relating to the acquisition or disposal of an investment, in which case, they are added to the cost of the investment or deducted from the sale proceeds.
Such transaction costs are disclosed in accordance with the SORP.
These expenses are charged to the capital column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income and are separately identified and disclosed in note 10.
46 Annual Report 2018 e Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, that have originated but not reversed at the reporting date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more or a right to pay less tax in future have occurred at the reporting date, measured on an undiscounted basis and based on enacted tax rates.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Timing differences are differences arising between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the accounts which are capable of reversal in one or more subsequent periods.
Due to the Companys status as an investment trust company, and the intention to continue to meet the conditions required to obtain approval for the foreseeable future, the Company has not provided deferred tax on any capital gains and losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
f Capital reserves Gains and losses on investments and changes in fair values of investments which are readily convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms, are transferred to the capital reserve.
g Foreign currency Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling on the reporting date.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses on the realisation of foreign currencies are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and are then transferred to the capital reserve.
Unrealised and realised gains and losses on foreign currency movements on investments held through profit or loss are recognised in the capital column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
h Dividends payable Final dividends are dealt with in the period in which they are paid.
i 3.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock 2018 Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock CULS issued by the Company has been regarded as a compound instrument, comprising of a liability component and an equity component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component was estimated by assuming that an equivalent non-convertible obligation of the Company would have a coupon rate of 4.662%.
The notional uplift in interest from 3.5% to 4.662% is shown in note 6.
The fair value of the equity component, representing the option to convert liability into equity, was derived from the difference between the issue proceeds of the CULS and the fair value assigned to the liability.
The liability component was subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate.
Direct expenses associated with the CULS issue were allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to the split of the proceeds of the issue.
Expenses allocated to the liability component were amortised over the life of the instrument.
The interest expense on the CULS was calculated according to the effective interest rate method by applying the assumed rate of 4.662% at initial recognition to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid was added to the carrying liability of the CULS.
On conversion of CULS, equity was issued and the liability component was derecognised.
The original equity component recognised at inception remained in equity.
No gain or loss is recognised on conversion.
When CULS is repurchased for cancellation, the fair value of the liability at the redemption date is compared to its carrying amount, giving rise to a gain or loss on redemption that is recognised through profit or loss.
The amount of consideration allocated to equity is recognised in equity with no gain or loss being recognised.
