Corporate information Investor Information How to Invest number of investment companies under its management including the Company.
Anyone can invest in the Investors can buy and sell shares in Edinburgh Dragon Childrens Plan subject to the eligibility criteria as stated Trust plc the Company directly through a stockbroker within the terms and conditions, including parents, or indirectly through a lawyer, accountant or other grandparents and family friends.
All investments are free professional adviser.
of dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, Alternatively, for retail clients, shares may be bought although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which directly through Aberdeen Standard Investment Trust can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump Share Plan, Individual Savings Account ISA or sum investments start at 150 per trust, while regular Investment Plan for Children.
savers may invest from 30 per month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% where Aberdeen Standard Investment Trust Share Plan applicable on purchases.
There Aberdeen Standard Investments operates an Investment is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in the Trust Share Plan the Plan through which shares in the Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend Company can be purchased.
There are no dealing charges participation by instructing Aberdeen Standard on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will Investments in writing at any time.
suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at Nominee Accounts and Voting Rights 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per In common with other schemes of this type, all month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty investments in the Aberdeen Standard Investment Trust currently 0.5% where applicable on purchases.
Selling Share Plan, Investment Trust ISA or Investment Plan for costs are 10 VAT.
There is no restriction on how long an Children are held in nominee accounts and investors have investor need invest in a Plan, and regular savers can stop full voting and other rights of share ownership.
or suspend participation by instructing Aberdeen Standard Investments in writing at any time.
Dividend Tax Allowance The annual tax-free personal allowance for dividend Aberdeen Standard Investment Trust ISA income, for UK investors, is 2,000 for the 2018 19 tax Aberdeen Standard Investments operates an Investment year.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on their Trust ISA ISA through which an investment made be dividend income at a rate dependent on their income tax made of up to 20,000 in the tax year 2018 19. bracket and personal circumstances.
The Company will continue to provide registered shareholders with a There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, confirmation of dividends paid by the Company and this although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which should be included with any other dividend income can be a significant amount.
Investors only pay received when calculating and reporting to HMRC total Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on purchases dividend income received.
It is the shareholders where applicable.
The annual responsibility to include all dividend income when ISA administration charge is 24 VAT, calculated annually calculating any tax liability.
and deducted on 31 March or the last business day in March either by direct debit or, if there is no valid direct Note debit mandate in place, from the available cash in the Plan prior to the distribution or reinvestment of any income, or, Please remember that past performance is not a guide to where there is insufficient cash in the Plan, from the sale the future.
Stock market and currency movements may of investments held in the Plan.
Under current legislation, cause the value of shares and the income from them to investments in ISAs can grow free of capital gains tax.
fall as well as rise and investors may not get back the amount they originally invested.
ISA Transfer As with all equity investments, the value of investment Investors can choose to transfer previous tax year trusts purchased will immediately be reduced by the investments to Aberdeen Standard Investments which difference between the buying and selling prices of the can be invested in the Company while retaining their ISA shares, the market makers spread.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of 250.
Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of Aberdeen Standard Investment Plan for Children the investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the Aberdeen Standard Investments operates an Investment tax treatment of ISAs, may be changed by future Plan for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a legislation.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 65 Corporate information Investor Information continued Keeping You Informed Key Information Document KID The Companys share price can be found in the Financial The KID relating to the Company and published by the Times under the heading Investment Companies and Manager can be found on the Managers website at: information of the Company may be found on its invtrusts.
co. uk en investmenttrusts literature-library.
co. uk and the TrustNet website www.
This provides Suitable for Retail NMPI Status access to information on the Companys share price The Companys shares are intended for investors primarily performance, capital structure, London Stock Exchange in the UK, including retail investors, professional-advised announcements, current and historic Annual and Halfprivate clients and institutional investors who seek total Yearly Reports, and the latest monthly factsheet on the returns from investment in Asian markets and who Company issued by the Manager.
understand and are willing to accept the risks of exposure to equities.
Investors should consider consulting a Details on the Company or literature and application financial adviser who specialises in advising on the forms on Aberdeen Standard Investments managed acquisition of shares and other securities before acquiring savings products can be found: shares.
Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks and merits of such an investment and should have Website: www.
co. uk sufficient resources to bear any loss that may result.
com Tel: 0808 500 0040 The Company currently conducts its affairs so that Address: Aberdeen Standard Investment Trusts, PO Box securities issued by the Company can be recommended 11020, Chelmsford, Essex CM99 2DB by a financial adviser to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to nonTerms and conditions for the Aberdeen Standard mainstream pooled investment products NMPIs and investment trust products can be found under the intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
Literature section of this website.
The Companys securities are not subject to the FCAs Companys Registrars restrictions which apply to non-mainstream pooled Alternatively, if you have an administrative query which investment products because they are shares in an relates to a direct holding, please contact the Companys investment trust.
Registrar, as follows: Online Dealing providers and platforms Equiniti Limited There are a number of online dealing platforms for private Aspect House investors that offer share dealing, ISAs and other means to Spencer Road invest in the Company, such as self-invested personal Lancing pension SIPP.
Real-time execution-only stockbroking West Sussex BN99 6DA services allow you to trade online, manage your portfolio and buy UK listed shares.
These sites do not give advice.
Shareholder helpline: 0371 384 2499 Some comparison websites also look at dealing rates and Shareview enquiry line: 0371 384 2020 terms.
Some well-known online providers, which can be Textel hard of hearing: 0371 384 2255 found through internet search engines, include: Overseas helpline: 44 0 121 415 7047 AJ Bell You Invest: Alliance Trust Savings: Barclays Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays.
Charges for calling telephone Stockbrokers: Charles Stanley Direct: Halifax Share numbers starting with 03 are determined by the callers Dealing: Fidelity Personal Investing: Hargreave Hale: service provider.
Hargreaves Lansdown: Idealing: Interactive Investor: Selftrade: The Share Centre: Stocktrade.
Pre-investment Disclosure Document PIDD Discretionary Private Client Stockbrokers The AIFMD requires Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited, as If you have a large sum to invest, you may wish to contact the alternative investment fund manager of the Company, to make available to investors certain information prior to a discretionary private client stockbroker.
They can such investors investment in the Company.
manage your entire portfolio of shares and will advise you on your investments.
To find a private client stockbroker The Companys PIDD is available for viewing on its visit The Personal Investment Management & Financial website.
66 Annual Report 2018 Financial Advisers from you is required to release the supposed payment for your shares.
These callers senders do not work for To find an adviser who recommends on investment trusts, Aberdeen Standard Investments and any third party visit: unbiased.
co. uk making such offers claims has no link with the Aberdeen Standard Investments.
Regulation of Stockbrokers Before approaching a stockbroker, always check that they Aberdeen Standard Investments does not cold-call are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority: investors in this way.
If you have any doubt over the veracity of a caller, do not offer any personal information, Tel: 0800 111 6768 or end the call and contact its Customer Services Department Website: fca.
uk firms systemsusing the above details.
reporting register search Email: register@fca.
uk The Financial Conduct Authority provides advice with respect to share fraud and boiler room scams at: Investor Warning: Be alert to share fraud and fca.
uk consumers scams bolier room scams Aberdeen Standard Investments has been contacted by investors informing us that they have received telephone The above information has been approved for the purposes of calls and emails from people who have offered to buy Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 their investment company shares, purporting to work for 2000 as amended by the Financial Services Act 2012 by Aberdeen Standard Investments or for third party firms.
Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited which is authorised and Aberdeen Standard Investments has also been notified of regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
emails claiming that certain investment companies under their management have issued claims in the courts against individuals.
These may be scams which attempt to gain your personal information with which to commit identity fraud or could be boiler room scams where a payment Financial Calendar 31 August 2018 Companys financial year end 2 November 2018 Announcement of annual financial report for the year ended 31 August 2018 15 November 2018 Annual Report and Accounts published 17 December 2018 12 noon Annual General Meeting 21 December 2018 Final dividend on Ordinary shares paid January 2019 General meeting for approval of the Tender Offer 28 February 2019 Companys financial half-year end Announcement of half-yearly financial report for the six months ended 28 February April 2019 2019 May 2019 Half-Yearly Report published 31 August 2019 Companys financial year end Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 67
