pp68-78 Shareholder 04 06 2018 11:27 Page 76 Other Information for Shareholders Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosure Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD, the Directive The Company falls within the definition of an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the Directive and, as such, is required to have or be an authorised AIFM.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML was authorised as an AIFM, and appointed by the Company as such, with effect from 22 July 2014.
Amongst other things, regulations implementing AIFMD require certain information to be provided to prospective investors.
This information can be found in the Companys page of the Managers website www.
co. uk edinburgh in a downloadable document entitled AIFMD Investor Information.
There have been no material changes to this document since 31 March 2017.
There have been two non-material changes: the Companys registrar changed its name to Link Asset Services from Capita Asset Services on a change of ownership in November 2017 and the legal entity appointed as depositary changed to The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited from BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited with effect from 1 December 2017.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the Directive will be disclosed through a primary information provider.
In addition, the Directive requires information in relation to the Companys leverage both gross and commitment see Glossary on page 75 and the remuneration of the Companys AIFM IFML to be made available to investors.
Accordingly: the leverage calculated for the Company at its year end was 110% for both gross and commitment 2017: both 113.0%.
The limits the AIFM has set for the Company remain unchanged at 250% and 200%, respectively: the AIFM summary remuneration policy is available from the corporate policies page of the Managers website www.
co. uk and from the Companys company secretary, on request see contact details on page 74 : and the AIFM remuneration paid for the year to 31 December 2017 is set out below.
AIFM Remuneration The AIFM remuneration paid is based on the latest financial year of the AIFM, which was to 31 December 2017.
The AIFM remuneration paid is based on the financial year of the AIFM, which is 31 December 2017.
IFML does not employ any staff directly.
All staff involved in the AIF related activities of IFML are employed and paid by Invesco UK Limited or other entities in the Invesco Limited Group.
Remuneration for staff involved in AIF related activities has been apportioned based on the average assets under management of 3,632 million for the nine AIFs managed by IFML during the reporting period.
The aggregate total remuneration apportioned to IFMLs AIF related activities for performance year 2017 is 8.64 million, of which 4.71 million is fixed remuneration and 3.93 million is variable remuneration.
The number of beneficiaries is 35.
IFML has identified individuals considered to have a material impact on the risk profile of IFML or the AIFs it manages Identified Staff, including board members of IFML, senior management, heads of control functions, other risk takers and any employees receiving total remuneration that takes them into the same remuneration bracket as senior management and risk takers whose professional activities can exert material influence on IFMLs risk profile or on an AIF it manages.
The aggregate total remuneration paid to the Identified Staff of IFML for AIF related activities is 1.63 million, of which 0.41 million is paid to senior management and 1.22 million is paid to other Identified Staff.
Please note that remuneration for AIFMD Identified Staff includes remuneration for staff employed by delegates.
76 pp68-78 Shareholder 04 06 2018 11:27 Page 77 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc The Manager of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is Invesco Fund Managers Limited.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with assets under management of $972.8 billion.
Invesco aims to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Assets under management as at 30 April 2018 77 pp68-78 Shareholder 04 06 2018 11:27 Page 78 Other Information for Shareholders Investment Companies Managed by Invesco Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Investing for Income, Income Growth UK Equity Portfolio Investing for Total Returns and Capital Growth from equities, Aims to generate long-term capital and fixed interest securities or property income growth with real growth in Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc dividends from investment, primarily in Balanced Risk Allocation Portfolio The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc the UK equity market.
The portfolio may Aims to provide shareholders with an Invests primarily in UK securities with use bank borrowings.
attractive total return in differing the long-term objective of achieving: economic and inflationary environments Keystone Investment Trust plc and with low correlation to equity and 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value Aims to provide shareholders with bond market indices by gaining exposure per share in excess of the growth in long-term growth of capital mainly to three asset classes: debt securities, the FTSE All-Share Index: and from UK investments.
The Company equities and commodities.
2. growth in dividends per share in has two debenture stocks in issue.
excess of the rate of UK inflation.
The portfolio is constructed so as to Perpetual Income and Growth balance risk, is long-only, using The Company has a debenture stock in Investment Trust plc transparently-priced exchange-traded issue and, in addition, may use bank Aims to provide shareholders with futures contracts and other derivative borrowings.
capital growth and real growth in instruments to gain such exposure and dividends over the medium to longer to provide leverage.
City Merchants High Yield Trust term from a portfolio of securities listed Limited mainly in the UK equity markets.
The A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company has secured loan stock in Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Company that aims to generate a high issue and, in addition, may use bank level of income from a variety of fixed borrowings.
Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc income instruments combined.
The UK Equity Portfolio Company may use bank borrowings.
Global Equity Income Portfolio Investing in Smaller Companies Managed Liquidity Portfolio Invesco Income Growth Trust plc Balanced Risk Allocation Portfolio Aims to produce income and capital Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller growth superior to that of the UK stock Companies Investment Trust plc A choice of four investment policies and market and dividends paid quarterly Aims to achieve long-term total returns objectives, each intended to generate that, over time, grow at above the rate for the Companys shareholders attractive risk-adjusted returns from of inflation.
The Company may use bank primarily by investment in a broad segregated portfolios, with the ability to borrowings.
cross-section of small to medium sized switch between them, four times a year, UK quoted companies.
The Company free from capital gains tax liability.
Invesco Perpetual Enhanced Income may use bank borrowings.
Dividends are paid quarterly, apart from Limited Balanced Risk which will not normally A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended pay dividends.
Company that aims to provide a high Investing Internationally level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst seeking to maximise Invesco Asia Trust plc For more information total return through investing, primarily Aims to provide long-term capital in a diversified portfolio of high-yielding growth by investing in a diversified Please contact Invescos Client Services corporate and government bonds.
The portfolio of Asian and Australasian Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like Company seeks to balance the securities.
The Company aims to more information about the investment attraction of high-yield securities with achieve growth in its net asset value in trusts or other specialist funds listed the need for protection of capital and to excess of the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan above.
Further details are also available manage volatility.
The Company uses Index, total return, in sterling terms.
on the following website: repo financing to enhance returns.
The Company may use bank borrowings.
co. uk investmenttrusts Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity Portfolio Global Equity Income Portfolio Aims to generate income from a variety Aims to provide an attractive and of fixed income instruments combined growing level of income return and with a high degree of security.
Income capital appreciation over the long term, will reduce during periods of very low predominantly through investment in interest rates.
a diversified portfolio of equities worldwide.
The portfolio may use bank borrowings.
co. uk investmenttrusts Invesco Client Services Team Freephone 0800 085 8677 Telephone lines are open Monday to Friday 8.30am - 6.30pm.
Telephone calls may be recorded and monitored for security and training purposes.
