Notice Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirtieth annual general meeting of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc will be held at Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London EC4M 9HH on 17 December 2018 at 12 noon to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 13 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 14 to 16 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the reports of the Directors and auditor and the audited financial statements for the year to 31 August 2018.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report, excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy, for the year to 31 August 2018.
To approve payment of a final dividend of 4.0p per Ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr McKenzie as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms Langridge as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Maynard as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr McLaren as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Ricketts as a Director of the Company.
To elect Mr Will as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditor for the year to 31 August 2019.
To continue the Company as an investment trust company.
That, in substitution for any pre-existing power to allot or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date of this resolution, the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12.4 million or, if less, the number representing 33.3% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of passing of this resolution, such authority to expire on 28 February 2020 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such authority, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such authority, and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 13 as set out above and in substitution for any existing power under Sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the passing of this resolution, the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered, pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority under Section 551 of the Act conferred by resolution 13 or by way of a sale of treasury shares within the meaning of Section 560 3 of the Act as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall: i be limited up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1.86 million or, if less, the number representing 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of passing of this resolution: and ii expire on 28 February 2020 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That, in substitution for any existing authority under Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 73 Notice Notice of Annual General Meeting continued of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid Ordinary shares of 20p each in the capital of the Company shares and to cancel or hold in treasury such shares, provided that: i the maximum aggregate number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 27.9 million or, if less, the number representing 14.99% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 20p exclusive of expenses : iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be an amount being not more than the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid relating to a share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: and iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 28 February 2020 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may, at any time prior to such expiry, enter into a contract or contracts to purchase shares under such authority which would or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution.
By order of the Board Registered office: Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 7th Floor Secretary 40 Princes Street 15 November 2018 Edinburgh EH2 2BY Notes: i A member is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies determining the rights of any member to attend to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting referred to above.
A proxy need not be a iv CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or member of the Company.
A member may appoint proxies through the CREST electronic proxy more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointment service may do so by using the appointed to exercise rights attached to different procedures described in the CREST Manual and by shares.
A member may not appoint more than one logging on to the website www.
proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
CREST personal members or other CREST ii A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed sponsored members, and those CREST members with this document.
Completion and return of the who have appointed a voting service provider s, form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting from attending the meeting and voting in person.
service provider s, who will be able to take the To be valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, appropriate action on their behalf.
together with any power of attorney or other v In order for a proxy appointment or instruction authority if any under which it is signed or a made using the CREST service to be valid, the notarially certified copy of such power or authority appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy at the address stated thereon, so as to be received Instruction must be properly authenticated in not later than 12 noon on 13 December 2018. accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds iii In accordance with Regulation 41 of the specifications, and must contain the information Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, to have required for such instruction, as described in the the right to attend and vote at the Meeting a CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether member must first have his or her name entered in it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an the Companys register of members by not later amendment to the instruction given to a previously than 6.30pm on 13 December 2018 or, in the event appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be that the Meeting is adjourned, at 6.30pm on the transmitted so as to be received by the Companys day which is two business days before the time of Registrar ID RA19 no later than 12 noon on 13 the adjourned Meeting.
Changes to entries on that December 2018 or in the event the meeting is register after that time shall be disregarded in adjourned no later than 48 hours excluding non- 74 Annual Report 2018 working days before the time of the adjourned x As at close of business on 1 November 2018 being meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will the latest practicable date prior to publication of be taken to be the time as determined by the this document, the Companys issued share capital timestamp applied to the message by the CREST comprised 186,111,029 Ordinary shares of 20 Application Host from which the Companys pence each and there were a further 29,193,324 Registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry shares held in treasury.
Each Ordinary share carries to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After the right to one vote at a general meeting of the this time any change of instructions to proxies Company and therefore the total number of voting appointed through CREST should be communicated rights in the Company as at close of business on 1 to the appointee through other means.
Treasury shares represent 13.6% of the total issued Ordinary share vi CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST capital inclusive of treasury shares.
sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make xi Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting available special procedures in CREST for any rights in the Company who appoints a person other particular message.
Normal system timings and than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the that both he and such third party complies with input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the their respective disclosure obligations under the UK responsibility of the CREST member concerned to Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal xii Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint member, or sponsored member, or has appointed one or more corporate representatives who may a voting service provider s, to procure that his exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s shareholder provided that they do not do so in such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a relation to the same shares.
message is transmitted by means of the CREST xiii The members of the Company may require the system by any particular time.
In this connection, Company to publish, on its website, a statement CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST setting out any matter relating to the audit of the sponsors or voting system providers are referred, Companys accounts, including the Auditors Report in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual and the conduct of the audit, which they intend to concerning practical limitations of the CREST raise at the next meeting of the Company.
Company will be required to do so once it has vii The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy received such requests from either i members Instruction in the circumstances set out in representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities the Company or ii at least 100 members who have Regulations 2001. a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the viii The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to Company on which there has been paid up an persons whose shares are held on their behalf by average sum per member of at least 100.
Such another person and who have been nominated to requests must be made in writing and must state receive communications from the Company in your full name and address, and be sent to: The accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act Company Secretary, Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc, 40 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY.
may have a right under an agreement with the xiv Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, member who holds the shares on their behalf to be including information required by Section 311A of appointed or to have someone else appointed as the Companies Act 2006, is available from the a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not Companys website, www.
have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they xv Under Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the may have a right under such an agreement to give Company must answer any question relating to the instructions to the person holding the shares as to business being dealt with at the meeting put by a the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the member attending the meeting unless: rights of members in relation to the appointment of a answering the question would interfere unduly proxies in notes i and ii above does not apply to with the preparation for the meeting or involve Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these the disclosure of confidential information: notes can only be exercised by members of the Company.
b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: ix No Director has a service contract with the or Company but copies of Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the c it is undesirable in the interests of the meeting venue for at least 15 minutes prior to the Company or the good order of the meeting Meeting and during the Meeting.
that the question be answered.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 75 Notice Notice of Annual General Meeting continued xvi Shareholders are advised that, unless otherwise stated, any telephone number, website or e-mail address which may be set out in this notice of Annual General Meeting or in any related documents including the proxy form is not to be used for the purposes of serving information or documents on, or otherwise communicating with, the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xvii There are special arrangements for holders of shares through the Aberdeen's Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeen's Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
These are explained in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have received with this report.
