Basic 2018 2017 Net assets attributable 000 788,019 807,330 A Number of Ordinary shares in issue 186,938,409 190,741,556 Net asset value per share p 421.54 423.26 Diluted 2018 2017 Net assets attributable 000 N A 851,745 Number of Ordinary shares in issue N A 205,146,955 Net asset value per share p N A 415.19 A Excluding shares held in treasury.
The CULS matured on 31 January 2018, and therefore a diluted net asset value is not applicable at 31 August 2018.
Details of the CULS maturity are disclosed in note 12.
Financial instruments Risk management The Companys investment activities expose it to various types of financial risk associated with the financial instruments and markets in which it invests.
The Companys financial instruments comprise securities and other investments, cash balances, bank loans and debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations: for example, in respect of sales and purchases awaiting settlement, and debtors for accrued income.
The Board has delegated the risk management function to AFML under the terms of its management agreement with AFML further details of which are included under note 3.
The Board regularly reviews and agrees policies for managing each of the key financial risks identified with the Manager.
The types of risk and the Managers approach to the management of each type of risk, are summarised below.
Such approach has been applied throughout the year and has not changed since the previous accounting period.
The numerical disclosures exclude short-term debtors and creditors.
Risk management framework The directors of Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited collectively assume responsibility for AFMLs obligations under the AIFMD including reviewing investment performance and monitoring the Companys risk profile during the year.
AFML is a fully integrated member of the Standard Life Aberdeen Group the Group, which provides a variety of services and support to AFML in the conduct of its business activities, including in the oversight of the risk management framework for the Company.
The AIFM has delegated the day to day administration of the investment policy to Aberdeen Standard Investments Asia Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Company is managed within the terms of its investment guidelines and the limits set out in its pre-investment disclosures to investors details of which can be found on the Companys website.
The AIFM has retained responsibility for monitoring and oversight of investment performance, product risk and regulatory and operational risk for the Company.
The Manager conducts its risk oversight function through the operation of the Groups risk management processes and systems which are embedded within the Groups operations.
The Groups Risk Division supports management in the identification and mitigation of risks and provides independent monitoring of the business.
The Division includes Compliance, Business Risk, Market Risk, Risk Management and Legal.
The team is headed up by the Groups Head of Risk, who reports to the co-Chief Executive Officers of the Group.
The Risk Division achieves its objective through embedding the Risk Management Framework throughout the organisation using the Groups operational risk management system SWORD.
The Groups Internal Audit Department is independent of the Risk Division and reports directly to the Group co-CEOs and to the Audit Committee of the Groups Board of Directors.
The Internal Audit Department is responsible for providing an independent assessment of the Groups control environment.
