pp68-78 Shareholder 04 06 2018 11:27 Page 75 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Other Information for Shareholders Glossary of Terms and Alternative Performance Measures Benchmark Leverage Ongoing Charges Ratio An index against which performance is Leverage, for the purposes of the This is calculated in accordance with compared.
For the Company this is the Alternative Investment Fund Managers guidance issued by the AIC as follows: FTSE All-Share Index.
Directive AIFMD, is not synonymous the annualised ongoing charges, with gearing as defined above.
In including those charged to capital but Discount Premium addition to borrowings, it encompasses excluding interest, incurred by the The amount by which the share price of anything that increases the Companys Company, expressed as a percentage of an investment trust is lower higher than exposure, including foreign currency the average undiluted net asset value the net asset value per share.
The and exposure gained through at market value reported in the discount premium is normally expressed derivatives.
as a percentage of the net asset value of Companys exposure as a ratio of the the share.
Return Two methods of calculating such The return generated in a period from Dividend Yield exposure are set out in the AIFMD, the investments.
The annual dividend expressed as a gross and commitment.
Under the gross percentage of the current share price.
method, exposure represents the Capital Return aggregate of all the Companys Reflects the return on capital, excluding Gearing exposures other than cash balances held any income returns.
in base currency and without any The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings that a company offsetting.
The commitment method Total Return has invested, with debt at par.
This takes into account hedging and other Total returns can be calculated in figure indicates the extra amount by netting arrangements designed to limit a number of ways.
The total returns which shareholders funds would move if risk, offsetting them against the used in this annual financial report, and a companys investments were to rise or underlying exposure.
A positive percentage indicates the extent to which shareholders funds are Net Asset Value NAV Benchmark geared: a nil gearing percentage, or nil, Also described as shareholders funds, Total return on the benchmark, on shows a company is ungeared.
the NAV is the value of total assets less a mid-market value basis, assuming all A negative percentage indicates that liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose dividends received were reinvested, a company is not fully invested.
include current and long-term liabilities.
without transaction costs, into the The NAV per share is calculated by shares of the underlying companies at There are several methods of dividing the net asset value by the the time the shares were quoted calculating gearing and the following has number of ordinary shares in issue.
been used in this report: accounting purposes assets are valued at fair usually market value and Shareholders Gross Gearing liabilities are valued at par their Total return to shareholders, on This reflects the amount of gross repayment often nominal value.
a mid-market price basis, assuming all borrowings in use by a company and An alternative, NAV with debt at market dividends received were re-invested, takes no account of any cash balances.
value, values long term liabilities at their without transaction costs, into the It is based on gross borrowings as market fair value.
shares of the Company at the time the a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Gearing Net Asset Value This reflects the amount of net Total return on net asset value per borrowings invested, ie borrowings less share, on a bid value with debt at cash and investments in money market market value, assuming dividends paid funds.
It is based on net borrowings as by the Company were reinvested into a percentage of shareholders funds.
the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
