pp68-78 Shareholder 04 06 2018 11:27 Page 73 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Other Information for the Shareholders Shareholder Information Managers website, which is located at Year End 31 March How to Invest in The Edinburgh www.
co. uk Investment Trust plc The Company edinburgh.
Location of AGM The Companys shares are quoted on the The one hundred and twenty eighth London Stock Exchange.
There are a The contents of websites referred to in Annual General Meeting of the Company variety of ways by which investors can buy this document, or accessible from links will be held at the The Weston Link, the shares.
Shares may be purchased within those websites, are not National Galleries of Scotland, Princes through discretionary wealth managers, incorporated in to, nor do they form Street, Edinburgh EH2 2EL on 19 July banks, independent financial advisers and part of this annual financial report.
via a large number of execution-only trading platforms.
The Managers website The portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, will contains a list of some of the larger dealing Financial Calendar make a presentation about the Company platforms as well as a link to after the AGM.
co. uk, for those seeking financial In addition, the Company publishes advice, and to the AICs website for information according to the following detailed information on investment calendar: companies.
Announcements Annual financial report May June Share Price Half-yearly financial report November The price of your ordinary shares can be found in the Financial Times, Daily Dividend Payable Timetable Telegraph, The Scotsman and The 1st interim November Times.
2nd interim February 3rd interim May In addition, share price information can Final July be found using the EDIN ticker code and on the Companys page of the Debenture Stock Managers website of Interest payable on September and 3 www.
7 4% 2022 March NAV Publication Annual General Meeting July The NAV of the Companys ordinary shares is calculated by the Manager on a daily basis and is notified to the Stock Exchange on the next business day.
It is General Data Protection Regulation GDPR published daily in the newspapers detailed above.
One of the biggest changes to UK data privacy law came into effect on 25 May 2018.
GDPR is a positive step towards individuals knowing how their personal Managers Website data is used and also having more control over how it is used.
The Company has a Information relating to the Company can privacy notice which sets out what personal data is collected, and how and why it be found on the Companys page of the is used.
The latest privacy notice can be found at www.
co. uk edinburgh under the Literature section, or a copy can be obtained from the company secretary whose correspondence address is shown on the next page.
Avoid investment fraud Report a Scam Be ScamSmart 1 Reject cold calls If you suspect that you have been If youve received unsolicited contact about approached by fraudsters please tell the an investment opportunity, chances are FCA using the reporting form at its a high risk investment or a scam.
uk consumers reportInvestment scams are should treat the call with extreme caution.
You can also call designed to look like The safest thing to do is to hang up.
the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 genuine investments 2 Check the FCA Warning List The FCA Warning List is a list of rms and If you have lost money to investment fraud, Spot the warning signs individuals we know are operating without you should report it to Action Fraud on Have you been: our authorisation.
0300 123 2040 or online at contacted out of the blue 3 Get impartial advice www.
uk promised tempting returns Think about getting impartial financial and told the investment is safe advice before you hand over any money.
Find out more at called repeatedly, or Seek advice from someone unconnected to www.
uk scamsmart told the offer is only available the rm that has approached you.
If so, you might have been contacted by fraudsters.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
