General Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosures Unaudited Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited AFML and the Company are required to make certain disclosures available to investors in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
Those disclosures that are required to be made pre-investment are included within a pre-investment disclosure document PIDD which can be found on the Companys website.
There have been no material changes to the disclosures contained within the PIDD since its publication in November 2017.
The periodic disclosures as required under the AIFMD to investors are made below: Information on the investment strategy and sector investment focus and principal stock exposures are included in the Strategic Report.
None of the Companys assets are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
The Strategic Report, note 16 to the Financial Statements and the PIDD together set out the risk profile and risk management systems in place.
There have been no changes to the risk management systems in place in the period under review and no breaches of any of the risk limits set, with no breach expected.
There are no new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company or any material changes to the liquidity management systems and procedures employed by AFML.
All authorised Alternative Investment Fund Managers are required to comply with the AIFMD Remuneration Code.
In accordance with the Remuneration Code, the Companys AIFM remuneration policy is available from the Company Secretary, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited on request see contact details on page 77 and the remuneration disclosures in respect of the AIFMs reporting period for the year ended 30 September 2017 are available on the Companys website and for the period ended 31 December 2018 will be made available in due course.
Leverage The table below sets out the current maximum permitted limit and actual level of leverage for the Company: Gross method Commitment method Maximum level of leverage 2.50:1 2.00:1 Actual level at 31 August 2018 1.06:1 1.07:1 There have been no breaches of the maximum level during the period and no changes to the maximum level of leverage employed by the Company.
There have been no changes to the circumstances in which the Company may be required to post assets as collateral and no guarantees granted under the leveraging arrangement.
Changes to the information contained either within this Annual Report or the PIDD in relation to any special arrangements in place, the maximum level of leverage which AFML may employ on behalf of the Company: the right of use of collateral or any guarantee granted under any leveraging arrangement: or any change to the position in relation to any discharge of liability by the Depositary will be notified via a regulatory news service without undue delay in accordance with the AIFMD.
The information on this page has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended by the Financial Services Act 2012 by Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom.
