General Glossary of Terms and Definitions Aberdeen Aberdeen Standard Investments ASI is a brand of the investment businesses of Aberdeen Asset Standard Management and Standard Life Investments.
Investments AFML, AIFM or Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited AFML is a wholly owned subsidiary of Standard Life Aberdeen Manager plc and acts as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM for the Company.
It is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
ASI Asia or Aberdeen Standard Investments Asia Limited ASI Asia or Investment Manager is a subsidiary Investment company of Standard Life Aberdeen plc which has been delegated responsibility for the Companys Manager day-to-day investment management.
Alternative Alternative performance measures are numerical measures of the Companys current, historical or Performance future performance, financial position or cash flows, other than financial measures defined or Measures specified in the applicable financial framework.
The Companys applicable financial framework includes FRS 102 and the AIC SORP.
The Directors assess the Companys performance against a range of criteria which are viewed as particularly relevant for closed-end investment companies.
A number of APMs are used to present a measure of profitability which is aligned with the requirements of its investors and potential investors, to draw out meaningful data around revenues and earnings, and to provide additional information not required for disclosure under accounting standards.
All APMs relate to past performance.
Total return Total return is considered to be an alternative performance measure.
NAV total return involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the Company with debt at fair value on the date on which that dividend was earned.
Share price total return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the month that the share price goes ex-dividend.
The tables below provide information relating to the NAVs and share prices of the Company on the dividend reinvestment dates during the years ended 31 August 2018 and 31 August 2017 and at the year ends.
The ongoing charges ratio has been calc accordance with guidance issued by the AIC as the total of investment management fees and administrative expens expressed as a percentage of the average net asset values throughout the year.
2018 2017 Investment management fees 000 5,296 6,228 Administrative expenses 000 1,211 1,219 Less: non-recurring charges 000 20 - Ongoing charges 000 6,487 7,447 Average net assets 000 808,836 720,065 Ongoing charges ratio 0.80% 1.03% The ongoing charges ratio provided in the Companys Key Information Document is calculated in line with the PRIIPs with the PRIIPs regulations.
Asset Cover The value of a companys net assets available to repay a certain security.
Asset cover is usually expressed as a multiple and calculated by dividing the net assets available by the amount required to repay the specific security.
AIFMD Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive CULS The 3.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock 2018 issued in January 2011.
The CULS were convertible semi-annually on the basis of 310.1528p nominal of CULS for one Ordinary Share.
This equated to a 10% premium to the unaudited NAV per Ordinary Share including income of 281.9571p at 5 January 2011.
The Final Conversion Date of the CULS was 31 January 2018.
Dilution Dilution is the potential impact of the conversion of CULS to Ordinary shares on the net asset value and share price of the Company.
Discount The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is lower than the net asset value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Dividend Cover Earnings per share divided by dividends per share expressed as a ratio.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
FCA Financial Conduct Authority Key Information The Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products PRIIPS Regulation requires the Document or KID Manager, as the Companys PRIIP manufacturer, to prepare a Key Information Document KID in respect of the Company.
This KID must be made available by the Manager to retail investors prior to them making any investment decision and is available via the Companys website.
The Company is not responsible for the information contained in the KID and investors should note that the procedures for calculating the risks, costs and potential returns are prescribed by law.
The figures in the KID may not reflect the expected returns for the Company and anticipated performance returns cannot be guaranteed.
Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 69 General Glossary of Terms and Definitions continued method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
Net Asset Value The value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose included current and long-term NAV liabilities.
The net asset value divided by the number of shares in issue produces the net asset value per share.
Net Gearing Net gearing is calculated by dividing total assets as defined below less cash or cash equivalents by shareholders funds expressed as a percentage.
Notional Interest At the date the CULS were issued, the fair value of the liability component was estimated by assuming that an equivalent non-convertible obligation of the Company would have a coupon rate of 4.662%.
Notional interest is calculated as the difference between this effective interest rate of 4.662% and the coupon rate of 3.5%.
Ongoing Charges Ratio of ongoing expenses expressed as percentage of average daily shareholders funds calculated as per the industry standard.
PIDD The pre-investment disclosure document made available by the AIFM in relation to the Company.
Premium The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust exceeds the net asset value per share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Price Earnings The ratio is calculated by dividing the middle-market price per share by the earnings per share.
The Ratio calculation assumes no change in earnings but in practice the multiple reflects the stock markets view of a companys prospects and profit growth potential.
Prior Charges The name given to all borrowings including debentures, loan and short term loans and overdrafts that are to be used for investment purposes, reciprocal foreign currency loans, currency facilities to the extent that they are drawn down, index-linked securities, and all types of preference or preferred capital and the income shares of split capital trusts, irrespective of the time until repayment.
Standard Life The Standard Life Aberdeen plc group of companies.
Standard Life Aberdeen plc was formed by Aberdeen plc or the merger of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and Standard Life plc on 14 August 2017. the Group Total Assets Total Assets less current liabilities before deducting prior charges as defined above.
Total Return Total Return involves reinvesting the net dividend in the month that the share price goes exdividend.
The NAV Total Return involves investing the same net dividend in the NAV of the Trust on the date to which that dividend was earned, eg half year or year end date.
