Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 August 2018 1.
Principal activity The Company is a closed-end investment company, registered in Scotland No SC106049, with its Ordinary shares being listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 and with the guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture capital Trusts issued in November 2014 and updated in February 2018 with consequential amendments.
The financial statements are prepared in sterling which is the functional currency of the Company and rounded to the nearest 000.
They have also been prepared on a going concern basis, on the assumption the continuation vote is passed by Shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and on the assumption that approval as an investment trust will continue to be granted.
The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is included in the Statement of Corporate Governance unaudited on page 32.
Key Accounting Judgements The Companys investments and borrowings are made in a number of currencies, however the Board considers the Companys functional currency to be Sterling.
In arriving at this conclusion, the Board considered that the shares of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchange, it is regulated in the United Kingdom, principally having its shareholder base in the United Kingdom, pays dividends and expenses in Sterling.
Consequently, the Board also considers the Companys presentational currency to be Sterling.
b Investments Listed investments have been designated upon initial recognition as fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are recognised and fide-recognised on the trade date at fair value, which is generally deemed to be the cost of the investment at that point.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments are valued at fair value, which for listed investments is deemed to be bid market prices or closing prices for SETS London Stock Exchanges electronic trading service stocks sourced from the London Stock Exchange.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included as a capital item in the Income Statement and are ultimately recognised in the capital reserve.
c Income Dividends other than special dividends, including taxes deducted at source, are included in revenue by reference to the date on which the investment is quoted ex-dividend.
Special dividends are reviewed on a case-by-case basis and may be credited to capital, if circumstances dictate.
Dividends receivable on equity shares where no ex-dividend date is quoted are brought into account when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares are recognised on a time-apportioned basis so as to reflect the effective yield on shares.
Other returns on non-equity shares are recognised when the right to return is established.
The fixed return on a debt security, if material, is recognised on a time apportioned basis so as to reflect the effective yield on each security.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of the foregone cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserves.
Interest receivable on bank balances is dealt with on an accruals basis.
d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged through the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income with the exception of expenses directly relating to the acquisition or disposal of an investment, in which case, they are added to the cost of the investment or deducted from the sale proceeds.
Such transaction costs are disclosed in accordance with the SORP.
These expenses are charged to the capital column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income and are separately identified and disclosed in note 10.
