A Ann nnu ual Re al Rep po ort an rt and d A Acc ccounts fo ounts for t r the ye he yea ar ende r ended 3 d 31 M 1 Ma ar rch ch 2 2018 018 El Ele ec ctr tro ocompone componen nt ts s pl plc c 131131 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION, REGISTERED OFFICE FINANCIAL CALENDAR AND ADVISORS Registered office Be scam smart Electrocomponents plc Investment scams are designed to look like genuine investments.
Fifth Floor Spot the warning signs Two Pancras Square Have you been: London contacted out of the blue?
N1C 4AG promised tempting returns and told the investment is safe?
United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7239 8400 called repeatedly?
com told the offer is only available for a limited time?
Registered number: 647788 If so, you might have been contacted by fraudsters.
Registered in England and Wales Avoid investment fraud Shareholder services Reject cold calls: Registrar If you have received unsolicited contact about an investment If you have any questions about your shareholding in the opportunity, the chances are it is a high risk investment or a Company, please contact our Registrar: Equiniti Ltd, Aspect scam.
You should treat the call with extreme caution.
The safest House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, thing to do is to hang up.
Telephone 0371 384 2158 44 121 415 7047 Check the FCA Warning List: from outside the UK.
Lines are open between 8.30am and The FCA Warning List is a list of firms and individuals we know 5.30pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in are operating without our authorisation.
Get impartial advice: Shareview Think about getting impartial financial advice before you hand To access online information about your shareholdings visit over any money.
Seek advice from someone unconnected to www.
The website also provides information the firm that has approached you.
useful to the management of investments together with an extensive schedule of frequently asked questions.
In order to Report a Scam view your shareholdings the shareholder reference number If you suspect that you have been approached by fraudsters is required which can be found at the top of the share please tell the FCA using the reporting form at www.
uk certificate or on the last dividend tax voucher.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Should you wish to reinvest your dividends in the Company, If you have lost money to investment fraud, you should you can take advantage of our DRIP.
It will allow you to use report it to Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online at your cash dividend to buy more Electrocomponents shares in www.
You will need to complete a DRIP application form Find out more at www.
uk scamsmart and return it to Equiniti.
This can be found, together with plan terms and conditions, at www.
co. uk or in the Investor Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Centre section of our website under FAQs.
Alternatively, please contact Equiniti on the number given above, and details and a form will be sent to you.
Share price information The latest information on Electrocomponents plc share price is available on our website.
132 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar Advisors Announcement of results Auditor The results of the Group are normally published at the  LLP following times: 1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH Half-year results for the six months to 30 September in mid-November.
Investment banker Citigroup Preliminary announcement for the year to 31 March Citigroup Centre in late May.
33 Canada Square Annual Report and Accounts for the year to 31 March London E14 5LB in mid-June.
Registrar and transfer office Dividend payments Equiniti Limited Our current policy is to make dividend payments at the Aspect House following times: Spencer Road Interim dividend in January Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Final dividend in July Solicitor 2018 final dividend timetable: Linklaters LLP Ex-dividend date: 14 June One Silk Street Record date: 15 June London EC2Y 8HQ Annual General Meeting: 19 July Stockbrokers Dividend paid: 25 July UBS 5 Broadgate London EC2M 2QS Numis Securities Limited The London Stock Exchange 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT Financial PR advisor Tulchan Communications LLP 85 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1AE Remuneration consultant Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc133 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED LOCATIONS Get more online Archive information Latest shareholder information Financial results Share price Corporate Governance Annual Reports Analyst consensus estimates Company news Updates via email Video library For more information and the latest news visit: www.
com Principal locations Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East Netherlands Canada Australia and Africa nl.
com Chile China Belgium en-cl.
com India Czech Republic Portugal in.
com Japan South Africa dk.
com Malaysia France Spain my.
com Germany New Zealand Sweden fide.
com Philippines Hungary Switzerland ph.
com Ireland Singapore United Kingdom ie.
com 134 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 This Report is printed on material which is derived from sustainable sources.
Both the manufacturing paper mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified Designed and produced by Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc Fifth Floor Two Pancras Square, London N1C 4AG United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7239 8400 www.
