NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Critical accounting judgements Elementis plc is a public company limited by shares The following are the critical judgements, apart from those incorporated and domiciled in England and is the parent involving estimations which are dealt with separately below, company of the Group.
The address of its registered office is that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Caroline House, 55-57 High Holborn, London WC1V 6DX.
The Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant Group financial statements have been prepared and approved effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Where relevant and practicable, sensitivity analyses are Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS.
disclosed in the relevant notes to demonstrate the impact of The Company has elected to prepare its parent company changes in estimates or assumptions used.
financial statements in accordance with FRS 101.
These are presented on pages 156 to 163. a.
Recognition of a defined benefit pension asset In accordance with IAS 19, for any pension plan in surplus, Basis of preparation the amount recognised as an asset is limited to an asset The financial statements have been prepared on the historical ceiling, being the present value of any potential refund or a cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated reduction in future contributions.
Following the guidance in at their fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at IFRIC 14, the Group has assessed the nature of the minimum the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The funding requirement of the UK scheme alongside the preparation of financial statements requires the application of unconditional right to a refund of any surplus under any estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of winding up of the plan and concluded it is appropriate to assets and liabilities, revenues and costs and related recognise the full value of any pension surplus.
disclosures at the balance sheet date.
The Groups accounting policies have been updated following the adoption of a number b.
Use of adjusted results of new standards and amendments to standards that have been The Group presents adjusted results Note 5 to provide issued and are now effective for the Group.
additional useful information on underlying performance and trends to shareholders.
These results are used for internal The financial statements have been prepared on a going performance analysis.
The rationale for adopting this basis is discussed in the Directors report on page 94.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit Reporting currency measurements reported by other companies.
It is not As a consequence of the majority of the Groups sales and intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS earnings originating in US dollars or US dollar linked currencies, measurements of profit.
Refer to Note 5 for the adjusting items the Group has chosen the US dollar as its reporting currency.
and a reconciliation to statutory IFRS results.
This aligns the Groups external reporting with the profile of the Group, as well as with internal management reporting.
c. Revenue recognition Judgement is exercised over how to determine the timing of Critical accounting judgements and key sources of revenue recognition for orders where the agreed terms are estimation uncertainty delivery to the destination port.
The Group has compiled When applying the Groups accounting policies, management shipping estimates based on the destination country which must make a number of key judgements on the application of are used to inform the timing of revenue recognition.
In applicable accounting standards and estimates and compiling these estimates management have used past assumptions concerning the carrying amounts of assets and experience and carrier standard shipping estimates to inform liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
estimates and judgements are based on factors considered to be relevant, including historical experience, which may differ Key sources of estimation uncertainty significantly from the actual outcome.
The key assumptions The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key concerning the future and other key sources of estimation sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting period that uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material may have a significant risk of causing a material misstatement to adjustment to the amounts recognised in the financial the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next statements are discussed below.
The development of the financial year, are discussed below.
estimates and disclosures related to each of these matters has been discussed by the Audit Committee.
Purchase price allocation In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable intangible assets on a business combination, the Group is required to make estimates when utilising valuation methodologies.
These methodologies include the use of attrition rates, discounted cash flows, revenue forecasts and the estimates for the useful economic lives of intangible assets.
Key areas of judgement surrounded the evaluation of the technical know-how in relation to the flotation production process and customer lists.
Key assumptions made were around the average useful economic lives of 15 years for both the production process and the customer lists as well as the attrition rate of customers of Mondo.
110 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION b.
Environmental provisions consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or Provisions for environmental restoration are recognised liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
where: the Group has a present legal or constructive Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: initially at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The Group and the amount can be estimated reliably.
recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the Environmental provisions are measured at the present value non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
obligation using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks Acquisition costs are accounted for as an expense in the specific to the obligation.
Due to the long time horizons over periodincurred.
which costs are anticipated, small changes in recurring annual cash outflows can have a significant cumulative Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or impact on the total provision required.
Further details of these income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are provisions and a sensitivity assessment are given in Note 15. eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised c. The carrying values of advance corporation tax gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of In 2014, an asset of $42.0m was recognised relating to impairment.
UKadvance corporation credits which had previously been unrecognised because of uncertainty over the availability of Changes in accounting policies UK taxable profits and hence a tax liability against which to The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of utilise the credits.
During 2014 the Group transferred some theprevious financial year except for the adoption of IFRS 15 profitable product manufacturing to the UK from overseas, Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 restructured the financing of an overseas subsidiary and FinancialInstruments.
gained greater certainty on future UK pension contributions, all of which led to a reasonable expectation that UK taxable Initial adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts profits would arise in the future and therefore that the tax withCustomers credits should be recognised.
The recognition of this deferred IFRS 15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or tax asset is contingent on the Groups estimation of future after 1 January 2018 replacing all prior revenue requirements in taxable income and this estimation is supported by the IFRS and applies to all revenue arising from contracts with Groups latest available three year plan.
Deferred tax assets customers unless the contracts are within the scope of other are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the standards such as IAS 17 Leases.
related tax benefit will be realised.
The standard outlines the principles entities must apply to d. Valuation of a defined benefit pension obligation measure and recognise revenue with the core principle being The key estimates made in relation to defined benefit that revenue is recognised when performance obligations within pensions relate to the discount rate used to determine the a customer contract are fulfilled, rather than when risk, reward present value of future benefits and the rate of inflation and control passes to a customer.
Further details on pensions and a sensitivity analysis are given in Note 23.
The principles in IFRS 15 must be applied using the following five step model: e. Contingent consideration Contingent consideration in relation to the acquisition of 1 Identify the contract s with a customer Mondo is payable dependent on the acquired business 2 Identify the performance obligations in the contract achieving certain targets within a fixed period post 3 Determine the transaction price acquisition.
Estimates of future performance are required to 4 Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations calculate the obligation at the date of acquisition and at each in the contract subsequent reporting date.
Further details of the range of 5 Recognise revenue when or as the entity satisfies its possible outcomes and sensitivity of carrying amounts to performance obligations changes in assumptions are disclosed in Note 31.
There has been no material impact of the new standard on the Basis of consolidation Groups recognition of revenue.
The comparative financial The consolidated financial statements include the financial information has not been restated with this change applied statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year.
using the modified retrospective approach from 1 January 2018 in accordance with paragraph C3 b of the standard, with the Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over cumulative effect of applying the standard recognised as at which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when thatdate.
the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those The change did not have a material impact on the Groups returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully operating, investing and financing cash flows and the basic and consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the diluted EPS.
They are deconsolidated from the date on which that control ceases.
Details of the change in the Groups accounting policy in respect of revenue recognition are set out overleaf.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree, and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The 111 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Initial adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In the current year, the Group has applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as revised in July 2014 and related consequential amendments to other IFRS Standards that are effective for an annual period that began on or after 1 January 2018.
The Standard replaces the provisions of IAS 39 that relate to the recognition, classification, measurement and fide-recognition of financial instruments, impairment of financial assets and hedgeaccounting.
The financial impact of the new standard onthe measurement of, and provisioning for, the Groups financial assets and liabilities is immaterial at both period opening and closing dates.
With the exception of hedge accounting, which the Group applied prospectively, the Group has applied IFRS 9 retrospectively, with the initial application date of 1 January 2018.
In accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 9 7.2.
26, comparative figures have not been restated.
Additionally, the Group adopted consequential amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures that were applied to the disclosures for 2018 and to the comparative period.
The change did not have a material impact on the Groups operating, investing and financing cash flows and the basic and dilutedEPS.
i Classification and measurement Financial assets At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
Subsequently financial assets are measured at either amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss.
Measurement is dependent on two criteria: The Groups business model for managing the financial assets, and Whether the contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest The Groups derivative financial instruments not designated within hedging relationships are measured at fair value through profit or loss as they fail the contractual cash flows test outlined above.
The following are the changes in the classification of the Groups financial assets: Trade receivables are held to collect contractual cash flows and give rise to cash flows representing solely payments of principal and interest.
These are classified and measured as debt instruments at amortised cost beginning on 1 January 2018.
At 31 December 2017 they were classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 but still measured at amortised cost, which is the method of measurement under IFRS 9.
Financial liabilities The Group has not designated any financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or loss.
There are no changes in classification and measurement for the Groups financial liabilities.
In summary, upon the adoption of IFRS 9, the Group had the following required or elected reclassifications: Measurement category Carrying amount Original New Difference Original IAS 39 New IFRS 9 $m $m $m Current financial assets Trade receivables Loans and Amortised receivables cost 109.9 109.9 The Groups impairment allowances for trade receivables under IAS 39 are unchanged under the IFRS 9 loss allowance model and thus a reconciliation between the two has not been provided.
The amounts of the loss allowance are disclosed in Note 21. ii Impairment The adoption of IFRS 9 has fundamentally changed the Groups accounting for impairment losses for financial assets by replacing IAS 39s incurred loss approach with a forward looking expected credit loss ECL approach.
IFRS 9 requires the Group to recognise an allowance for ECLs for all debt instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss and contract assets.
The Group has applied the simplified approach in calculating the expected credit loss on the trade receivables portfolio recognising full lifetime expected credit losses on transition.
The Group has established a provision matrix which takes into account the Groups historical credit loss experience adjusted for historical conditions that are not relevant to future cash flows and forward looking factors specific to the debtor and economic environment.
The effect of applying the new expected credit loss model on the Groups impairment of trade and other receivables has been immaterial.
112 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION iii Hedge accounting Property, plant and equipment At the date of initial application, all of the Groups existing Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less hedging relationships were eligible to be treated as continuing accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Before the adoption of IFRS 9, the Group is not depreciated.
Leasehold property is depreciated over the designated the change in fair value of the entire forward period of the lease.
Freehold buildings, plant and machinery, contracts in its cash flow hedge relationships.
Upon adoption of fixtures, fittings and equipment are depreciated over their the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9, the Group estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
Depreciation designates only the spot element of forward contracts as the methods, useful lives and residual values are assessed at the hedging instrument.
The forward element is recognised in profit reporting date.
No depreciation is charged on assets under and loss.
construction until the asset is brought into use.
Cash flow hedges Estimates of useful lives of these assets are: Consistent with prior periods the Group continues to designate Buildings 10 50 years its interest rate swaps, fx forwards and interest rate caps and Plant and machinery 2 20 years collars in cash flow hedging relationships with the effective Fixtures, fittings and equipment 2 20 years portion of changes in fair value of the hedging instruments recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and the hedging reserve in equity.
The ineffective portion of any equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is changes in fair value of the hedging instruments are recognised probable that the future economic benefits embodied within it in the income statement immediately.
will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and Fair value hedges equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The Group does not have any fair value hedges.
Management regularly considers whether there are any Hedges of a net investment in foreign operations indications of impairment to carrying values of property, plant The Group designates the foreign exchange gain or loss on a and equipment.
Impairment reviews are based on risk adjusted proportion of the Groups euro and US dollar denominated discounted cash flow projections.
Significant judgement is borrowings as a hedge of the Groups net investment in foreign applied to the assumptions underlying these projections which operations.
As such the foreign exchange gain or loss on those include estimated discount rates, growth rates, future selling borrowings is recognised in other comprehensive income and prices and direct costs.
Changes to these assumptions could accumulated in equity until such time as the operations are have a material impact on the financial position of the Group and disposed of, at which point the corresponding amounts will be on the result for the year.
recycled to profit or loss.
This is unchanged from the treatment under IAS 39.
Goodwill Foreign currency Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, and it a.
Foreign currency transactions represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the foreignexchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the acquired.
If the total of consideration transferred, nonforeign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange controlling interest recognised and previously held interest differences arising on translation are recognised in the measured at fair value is less than the fair value of the net income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities assets of the subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the are translated at exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair incomestatement.
Financial statements of foreign operations Expenditure on pure research is recognised in the income The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including statement as an expense as incurred.
Under IAS 38, goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, expenditure on development where research findings are are translated at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet applied to a plan or design for the production of new or date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are substantially improved products and processes is capitalised translated at the average rates of exchange ruling for the if the product or process will give rise to future economic relevant period.
Exchange differences arising since 1 January benefits and where the cost of the capitalised asset can be 2004 on translation are taken to the translation reserve.
Expenditure capitalised is stated as the are recognised in the income statement upon disposal of the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion foreign operation.
The Group may hedge a portion of the of overheads less accumulated amortisation.
The length of translation of its overseas net assets through US dollar and development lifecycles, broad nature of much of the research euro borrowings.
From 1 January 2005, the Group has undertaken and uncertainty until a late stage as to ultimate elected to apply net investment hedge accounting for these commercial viability of a potential product can mean that the transactions where possible.
Where hedging is applied, the measurement criteria of IAS 38 regarding the probability of effective portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to future economic benefits and the reliability of allocating hedge a net investment is recognised in equity.
Any costsmay not be met, in which case expenditure is expensed ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the as incurred.
113 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Expected credit losses c. Customer relationships and other intangible assets The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring Customer relationships and other intangible assets are stated expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss at cost or when arising in a business combination, estimated allowance for all trade receivables.
fair value, less accumulated amortisation.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have d. Amortisation been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight the days past due.
The expected loss rates are based on line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets payment profiles and the corresponding historical credit losses through the administrative expenses line item, unless such experienced.
The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect lives are indefinite.
Goodwill is systematically tested for current and forward looking information in relation to impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible macroeconomic factors that could affect the ability of customers assets, comprising customer lists, customer relationships, to settle receivables.
manufacturing processes and procedures, trademarks, non-compete clauses and patents, are amortised over their The Group considers a financial asset in default when estimated useful lives which range from 5 to 24 years.
contractual payments are 120 days past due.
However, in certain cases, the Group may also consider a financial asset to Impairment be in default when internal or external information indicates that The carrying amount of non-current assets other than deferred the Group is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual tax is compared to the assets recoverable amount at each amountsin full before taking into account any credit balance sheet date where there is an indication of impairment.
enhancements held by the Group.
A financial asset is written off For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and when there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the contractual cash flows.
recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
Leased assets Each year the Group carries out impairment tests of its goodwill Leases which result in the Group receiving substantially all of the and other indefinite life intangible assets which requires an risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are treated as estimate to be made of the value in use of its cash generating finance leases.
An asset held under a finance lease is recorded units CGUs.
These value in use calculations are dependent on in the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of its estimates of future cash flows and long term growth rates of the estimated useful life and the lease term.
Future instalments net of CGUs.
Further details of these estimates are given in Note 11. finance charges are included within borrowings.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge, which is An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount allocated to each period to produce a constant periodic rate of of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
interest on the remaining liability and charged to the income Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
statement and reduction of the outstanding liability.
Rental costs Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated arising from operating leases are charged on a straight line first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to basis over the period of the lease.
CGUs and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
A CGU is the smallest Investments identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are Investments comprising loans and receivables are stated at largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or amortised cost.
Inventories The recoverable amount is the greater of their fair value less Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price, less estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Cost, using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market which is based on a weighted average, includes expenditure assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to incurred in acquiring stock and bringing it to its existing the asset s. For an asset that does not generate largely locationand condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
overheads attributable to manufacture, based on normal operating capacity.
114 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Trade receivables Provisions From 1 January 2018 A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group Trade receivables are due for payment within one year and are has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a thus classified as current.
They are non-interest bearing and are past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic stated at their nominal amount which is the original invoiced benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is amount, less allowance for expected future credit losses.
material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected Estimates of future expected credit losses are informed by future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market historical experience and managements expectations of future assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, economic factors, further information on expected credit loss the risks specific to the liability.
impairment is given in the impairment accounting policy.
Individual trade receivables are written off when management A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has deem them to be no longer collectable.
There has been no approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the material impact in recognition and measurement of the Groups restructuring has either commenced or has been announced trade receivables in moving from the criteria of IAS 39 to IFRS 9. publicly.
In accordance with the Groups environmental policy and applicable legal requirements, a provision for site Period to 31 December 2017 restoration in respect of contaminated land is recognised when Trade receivables for the year ending 31 December 2017 are the land is contaminated.
Provisions for environmental issues are measured at amortised cost consistent with the treatment under judgemental by their nature, particularly when considering the IFRS 9, albeit the IAS 39 classification is referred to as loans and size and timing of remediation spending, and more difficult to receivables.
Provision for bad and doubtful receivables was estimate when they relate to sites no longer directly controlled by made based on the ageing of receivables and historical the Group.
Individual trade receivables were written off when management deem them to be no longer collectable which is Pension and other post retirement benefits consistent with the treatment in the current period under IFRS 9.
In respect of the Groups defined benefit schemes, the Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that operations employees have earned in return for their service in the current A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a nonand prior periods, that benefit is discounted to determine its current asset a disposal group, is classified as held for sale if present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates sale and sale within one year is highly probable.
On initial approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
Pension classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal and post retirement liabilities are calculated by qualified groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying amount actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Following the and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to introduction of the revised IAS 19 Employee Benefits standard, profit or loss.
The same applies to gains and losses on the net interest on the defined benefit liability consists of the subsequent remeasurement.
interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and the interest income on plan assets, both calculated by reference to the A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at business that represents a separate major line of business or the start of the period.
geographic area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale, that has been disposed of, has The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses in the period been abandoned or that meets the criteria to be classified as in which they occur through the statement of comprehensive held for sale.
The Group also operates a small number of defined contribution schemes and the contributions payable during the Cash and cash equivalents year are recognised as incurred.
Due to the size of the Groups Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call pension scheme assets and liabilities, relatively small changes deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank in the assumptions can have a significant impact on the expense overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral recorded in the income statement and on the pension liability part of the Groups cash management are included as a recorded in the balance sheet.
component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to issue of ordinary Borrowings shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from Borrowings are initially measured at cost which is equal to the equity.
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, fair value at inception, and are subsequently measured at the amount of the consideration paid, including directly amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Any attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs Repurchased shares by the Company are classified as treasury andthe settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
over the terms of the borrowings using the effective interest ratemethod.
Trade payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing borrowings and are initially measured at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
115 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Termination benefits Derivative financial instruments Termination benefits are recognised as an expense when the The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its Group is demonstrably committed, without realistic possibility of exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to terminate employment does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading before the normal retirement date.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge voluntary redundancies are recognised if the Group has made accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Due to the an offer encouraging voluntary redundancy, it is probable that requirement to assess the effectiveness of hedging instruments, the offer will be accepted, and the number of acceptances can changes in market conditions can result in the recognition of be estimated reliably.
unrealised gains or losses on hedging instruments in the incomestatement.
Revenue Revenue is recognised upon transfer of promised goods to Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair customers the performance obligation in an amount that value and are shown as separate line items within assets and reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in liabilities.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is exchange for those goods.
This may occur, depending on the recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, individual customer relationship, when the product has been where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of transferred to a freight carrier, when the customer has received any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item the product or, for consignment stock held at customers being hedged.
premises, when usage reports for the relevant period have beencompiled.
Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a All revenue is from contracts with customers and pertains to the hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or sale of specialty chemicals products, selling prices are agreed liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective in advance and hence are directly observable.
part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
Any ineffective The Groups payment terms offered to customers are within a portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the certain number of days of receipt of invoice and standard incomestatement.
contracts do not include a significant financing component.
The Group does not expect to have any contracts where the period Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive between the transfer of the promised goods to the customer and income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit payment by the customer exceeds one year.
As a consequence, and loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised the Group does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the in profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as time value of money.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a Under previous accounting, provisions were put in place for non-financial asset the gains or losses previously returns, trade discounts and rebates as a deduction from accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and revenue at the point in time the related revenue was recognised.
included in the initial measurement of the cost of the nonUnder IFRS 15 these elements of variable consideration are financial asset.
alsorecognised as a reduction in revenue at the later of when revenue is recognised for the transfer of the related goods and b.
Fair value hedges the entity pays or promises to pay the consideration.
The Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a promise to pay rebates is contractually agreed in advance and hedge of the variability in a fair value of a recognised asset or thus the point of transferring the goods to the customer is liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, all changes in deemed to be the later of the two circumstances.
Therefore the the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in transition to IFRS 15 does not alter the accounting for these the income statement.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the Were the previous accounting policy to be applied to the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being 12month period ending 31 December 2018 the adjustment hedged even if it is normally carried at amortised cost and required to financial statement line items and earnings per share any gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised reported for that period would be nil.
immediately in the income statement even if those gains would normally be recognised directly in reserves.
IAS 18 Revenue accounting policy, applied to periods ending up to and including 31 December 2017 c. Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of The Group designates the foreign exchange gain or loss on a the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade proportion of the Groups Euro and US dollar denominated discounts and rebates.
Revenue is recognised in the income borrowings as a hedge of the Groups net investment in statement only where there is evidence that the significant risks foreign operations.
As such the foreign exchange gain or loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the on those borrowings is recognised in other comprehensive customer and where the collectability of revenue is reasonably income and accumulated in equity until such time as the assured.
This may occur, depending on the individual customer operations are disposed of at which point the corresponding relationship, when the product has been transferred to a freight amounts are recycled to profit or loss.
carrier, when the customer has received the product or, for consignment stock held at customers premises, when usage reports for the relevant period have been compiled.
Where goods are shipped but the Group continues to bear insurance risk until they reach their destination, revenue is only recognised when the goods reach their destination.
116 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Other expenses Share based payments Other expenses are administration costs incurred and paid by The fair value of equity settled share options, cash settled the Groups pension schemes, which relate primarily to former shadow options and LTIP awards granted to employees is employees of legacy businesses.
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over Finance income and finance costs the period during which the employees become unconditionally Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested entitled to the options awards.
The fair value of the options and changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value awards granted is measured using a binomial model, taking into taken to the income statement.
Interest income is recognised as account the terms and conditions upon which the options it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Finance costs awards were granted.
The amount recognised as an employee comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share discount on provisions, dividends on preference shares options awards that vest except where forfeiture is only due to classified as debt, foreign currency losses and changes in the share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
value of financial assets at fair value taken to the income statement.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income Own shares held by Employee Share Ownership statement using the effective interest method.
Trust ESOT Transactions of the Group sponsored ESOT are included in the Taxation consolidated financial statements.
In particular, the ESOTs Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current purchases of shares in the Company are charged directly and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income toequity.
statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
Current tax Alternative performance measures is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, In the analysis of the Groups operating results, earnings per using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance share and cash flows, information is presented to provide sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of readers with additional performance indicators that are previous years.
This presentation is regularly reviewed by management to identify items that are unusual and A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is other items relevant to an understanding of the Groups probable that future taxable profits will be available against performance and long term trends with reference to their which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on materiality and nature.
This additional information is not uniformly temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets defined by all Companies and may not be comparable with and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts similarly titled measures and disclosures by other organisations.
The following temporary differences The non-statutory disclosures should not be viewed in isolation are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial or as an alternative to the equivalent statutory measure.
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting Information for separate presentation is considered as follows: nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and Material costs or reversals arising from a significant differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent restructuring of the Groups operations are that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The presentedseparately amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected Disposal of entities or investments in associates or joint manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of ventures or impairment of related assets are assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively presentedseparately enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are Other matters arising due to the Groups acquisition, such as reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the adjustments to contingent consideration, payment of retention related tax benefit will be realised.
bonuses, acquisition costs and fair value adjustments for acquired assets made in accordance with IFRS 13 are The Group is required to estimate the income tax in each of the separately disclosed in aggregate jurisdictions in which it operates.
This requires an estimation of If a change in an accounting estimate for provisions, including current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary environmental provisions, results in a material gain or loss, that differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting is presented separately and tax treatments.
The Group operates in a number of countries Other items the Directors may deem to be unusual as a result in the world and is subject to many tax jurisdictions and rules.
As of their size and or nature.
a consequence the Group is subject to tax audits, which by their nature are often complex and can require several years to Adoption of new and revised standards conclude.
Managements judgement is required to determine the In the current year, the Group has applied a number of total provision for income tax.
Amounts are accrued based on amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting managements interpretation of country specific tax law and Standards Board IASB that are mandatorily effective for likelihood of settlement.
However, the actual tax liabilities could accounting periods that begin on or after 1 January 2018.
Their differ from the position and in such events an adjustment would adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or be required in the subsequent period which could have a material on the amounts reported in these financial statements: impact.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2014-2016 Cycle the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be IFRS 9 Financial Instruments probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers assess whether a provision should be taken against full IFRS 2 amendments Classification and Measurement of recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement Share-Based Payment Transactions through negotiation.
This evaluation requires judgements to be IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and made including the forecast of future taxable income.
117 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 1.
OPERATING SEGMENTS New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective Business segments At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the The Group has determined its operating segments on the basis Group has not applied the following new and revised of those used for management, internal reporting purposes and international accounting standards IAS IFRSs and the allocation of strategic resources.
In accordance with the interpretations IFRICs that have been issued but are not provisions of IFRS 8, the Groups chief operating decision maker effective for periods starting on 1 January 2018 but will be is the Board of Directors.
Following a review in December 2017 effective for later periods: of the application of IFRS 8 Operating Segments the Group has decided that, from 1 January 2018, the segments within Effective date continuing operations that should be disclosed are as follows with the addition of the new Talc segment as the result of the International Accounting Standards acquisition of Mondo Minerals BV: IAS IFRSs and Interpretations IFRICs Personal Care Endorsed by the EU Coatings Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features 1 January 2019 Talc with Negative Compensation Chromium IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 Energy Not yet endorsed by the EU: The five reportable segments, Personal Care, Coatings, Talc, IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2021 Chromium and Energy each have distinct product groupings IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax 1 January 2019 and separate management structures.
Segment results, assets Treatments and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment IAS 28 Amendments: Long-term Interests in 1 January 2019 and those that may be reasonably allocated from corporate Associates and Joint Ventures activities.
Presentation of the segmental results is on a basis consistent with those used for reporting Group results.
Principal Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 1 January 2019 activities of the reportable segments are as follows: 2015 2017 Cycle IAS 19 Amendments: Plan Amendment, 1 January 2019 Personal Care Curtailment or Settlement Production of rheological modifiers and compounded products, IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments: Sale or Deferred including active ingredients for AP deodorants, for supply to Contribution of Assets between an Investor indefinitely personal care manufacturers.
and its Associate or Joint Venture Coatings The Directors have completed an initial assessment of IFRS 16, Production of rheological modifiers and additives for decorative and believe the main impacts on the financial statements will be: and industrial coatings.
It is anticipated that financial liabilities on implementation of Talc the standard will increase by approximately $50-55m as Production and supply of talc for use in plastics, coatings, obligations to make future payments under leases currently technical ceramics and the paper sectors.
classified as operating leases will be recognised on the balance sheet.
Non-current assets will also increase on Chromium implementation but by a lower amount Production of chromium chemicals.
On adoption, each right-of-use asset will not exceed its recoverable amount.
The Group will also annually review the Energy right-of-use assets for impairment Production of rheological modifiers and additives for oil and gas There will be a net reduction in operating costs but an drilling and stimulation activities.
increase in finance costs as operating lease costs are replaced with depreciation and lease interest expense.
This In 2017, the Surfactants business, which was involved in the will result in an increase to the Groups operating profit and production of surface active ingredients, was reclassed as EBITDA but an overall net decrease in profit before tax in the discontinued operations see Note 32. initial years after adoption The impact on operating profit and profit before tax is not Inter-segment pricing is set at a level that equates to the expected to be material in future periods manufacturing cost of the product plus a commercially The noted adjustments will be reflected in retained earnings appropriate mark up.
Unallocated items and those relating to corporate functions such The total cash outflow for lease payments will not change but as tax and treasury are presented in the tables overleaf as certain lease payments will be presented as cash flow from central costs.
financing activities, as opposed to the current treatment as cash flow from operating activities, resulting in a decrease in cash outflow from operating activities and an increase in cash outflow from financing activities.
Further details of the leases held by the Group are given in Note22.
118 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Segmental analysis for the year ended 31 December 2018 2018 Total of Personal Segment Central continuing Discontinued Total of all 1 Care Coatings Talc Chromium Energy totals costs operations operations operations $m $m $ $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 210.3 362.2 21.5 184.3 54.9 833.2 833.2 4.8 838.0 Internal revenue 11.0 11.0 11.0 11.0 Revenue from external customers 210.3 362.2 21.5 173.3 54.9 822.2 822.2 4.8 827.0 Adjusted operating profit 52.2 52.5 3.9 33.0 7.1 148.7 16.1 132.6 0.6 132.0 Adjusted items 11.8 5.1 4.1 17.2 28.0 19.7 47.7 9.8 57.5 Profit loss before interest 40.4 57.6 0.2 15.8 7.1 120.7 35.8 84.9 10.4 74.5 Other expenses 1.6 1.6 1.6 Finance income 0.3 0.3 0.3 Finance expense 18.2 18.2 18.2 Taxation after adjusting items 24.4 24.4 0.3 24.1 Taxation on adjusting items 8.8 8.8 1.7 10.5 Profit for the year 40.4 57.6 0.2 15.8 7.1 120.7 70.9 49.8 8.4 41.4 1 Talc is the new operating segment in 2018 as a result of the acquisition of Mondo on 23 October 2018.
2018 Personal Care, Coatings Segment Total of all 2 and Energy Talc Chromium totals Central operations $m $m $m $m $m $m Fixed assets 710.6 331.3 79.5 1121.4 333.4 1,454.8 Inventories 106.1 24.2 58.4 188.7 188.7 Trade and other receivables 78.4 19.3 30.7 128.4 11.0 139.4 ACT recoverable 9.8 9.8 Derivatives 2.0 2.0 Tax assets 27.4 27.4 Cash and cash equivalents 96.1 96.1 Segment assets 895.1 374.8 168.6 1,438.5 479.7 1,918.2 Trade and other payables 77.0 18.6 30.4 126.0 14.6 140.6 Operating provisions 1.5 4.9 21.6 28.0 20.8 48.8 Bank overdrafts and loans 594.2 594.2 Current tax liabilities 17.1 17.1 Retirement benefit obligations 9.9 9.9 Deferred tax liabilities 151.7 151.7 Financial liabilities 40.3 40.3 Segment liabilities 78.5 23.5 52.0 154.0 848.6 1,002.6 Net assets 816.6 351.3 116.6 1,284.5 368.9 915.6 Capital additions 29.8 6.8 12.9 49.5 1.8 51.3 Depreciation and amortisation 30.5 4.9 8.4 43.8 1.4 45.2 2 D ue to the shared nature of the production facilities for the Personal Care, Coatings and Energy segments a split of assets and liabilities by segment is not available and the cost to determine such a split would be prohibitive therefore assets and liabilities are shown in aggregate for these segments.
119 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 2.
OPERATING SEGMENTS CONTINUED North United Rest of Rest of Discontinued America Kingdom Europe the World operations Total Information by geographic area $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue from external customers 290.3 32.1 201.1 298.7 4.8 827.0 Non-current assets 790.7 230.1 373.1 60.8 1,454.7 Capital additions 32.6 2.0 3.4 8.1 0.8 46.9 Depreciation and amortisation 28.7 1.5 11.0 4.0 0.7 45.9 Segmental analysis for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 Total of Personal Segment Central continuing Discontinued Total of all Care Coatings Chromium Energy totals costs operations operations operations $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 179.3 372.9 186.7 58.8 797.7 797.7 47.8 845.5 Internal revenue 15.0 15.0 15.0 0.2 15.2 Revenue from external customers 179.3 372.9 171.7 58.8 782.7 782.7 47.6 830.3 Adjusted operating profit 44.6 54.7 30.1 9.7 139.1 16.4 122.7 5.4 128.1 Adjusted items 15.4 0.1 1.3 16.8 14.5 31.3 0.4 30.9 Profit loss before interest 29.2 54.6 28.8 9.7 122.3 30.9 91.4 5.8 97.2 Other expenses 1.2 1.2 1.2 Finance income 0.2 0.2 0.2 Finance expense 11.9 11.9 11.9 Taxation after adjusting items 22.5 22.5 0.9 23.4 Taxation on adjusting items 56.7 56.7 56.7 Profit for the year 29.2 54.6 28.8 9.7 122.3 9.6 112.7 4.9 117.6 2017 Personal Care, Total of Coatings Segment continuing Asset held Total of all 1 and Energy Chromium Totals Central operations for Sale operations $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Fixed assets 721.7 75.3 797.0 139.7 936.7 42.3 979.0 Inventories 101.6 41.8 143.4 0.2 143.6 6.8 150.4 Trade and other receivables 90.6 25.1 115.7 8.9 124.6 9.1 133.7 ACT recoverable 16.2 16.2 16.2 Deferred tax assets 0.9 0.9 0.9 Cash and cash equivalents 4.5 4.5 4.5 Segment assets 55.0 55.0 55.0 Trade and other payables 913.9 142.2 1,056.1 225.4 1,281.5 58.2 1,339.7 Operating provisions 73.1 30.6 103.7 14.0 117.7 15.2 132.9 Bank overdrafts and loans 1.4 15.9 17.3 15.4 32.7 3.0 35.7 Derivatives 346.1 346.1 346.1 Current tax liabilities 14.1 14.1 4.7 18.8 Retirement benefit obligations 10.5 10.5 10.5 Deferred tax liabilities 93.4 93.4 93.4 Segment liabilities 74.5 46.5 121.0 493.5 614.5 22.9 637.4 Net assets 839.4 95.7 935.1 268.1 667.0 35.3 702.3 Capital additions 24.4 11.3 35.7 3.4 39.1 6.3 45.4 Depreciation and amortisation 26.5 8.8 35.3 1.2 36.5 3.2 39.7 1 D ue to the shared nature of the production facilities for the Coatings, Energy and Personal Care segments a split of assets and liabilities by segment is not available and the cost to determine such a split would be prohibitive therefore assets and liabilities are shown in aggregate for these segments.
120 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION North United Rest of Rest of Discontinued America Kingdom Europe the World operations Total Information by geographic area $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue from external customers 283.2 22.7 165.9 310.9 47.6 830.3 Non-current assets 787.9 59.4 49.5 60.6 42.3 999.7 Capital additions 29.7 3.0 2.2 4.2 6.3 45.4 Depreciation and amortisation 26.1 1.5 4.5 4.4 3.2 39.7 3.
FINANCE INCOME 2018 2017 $m $m Interest on bank deposits 0.3 0.2 4.
FINANCE COSTS 2018 2017 $m $m Interest on bank loans 16.8 9.7 Pension and other post retirement liabilities 0.4 1.1 Unwind of discount on provisions 1.0 1.1 18.2 11.9 5.
ADJUSTING ITEMS AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Adjusting Adjusting items on items on discontinued 2018 discontinued 2017 2018 operations Total 2017 operations Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Restructuring 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.6 Business transformation 5.6 5.6 3.4 3.4 Environmental provisions Increase in provisions due to additional remediation work identified 16.5 16.5 2.1 2.1 Costs related to acquisition activities 16.5 16.5 9.7 9.7 Uplift due to fair value of SummitReheis inventory 4.0 4.0 Uplift due to fair value of Mondo inventory 2.9 2.9 Sale of Colourants business and closure of Jersey City site 12.7 12.7 2.5 2.5 Release of legal provision 0.7 0.7 Sale of Surfactants business 0.5 0.5 Disposal costs 2.2 0.3 2.5 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 15.0 15.0 11.8 11.8 GMP Pension 3.2 3.2 Surfactants commercial settlement 9.8 9.8 47.7 9.8 57.5 31.3 0.4 30.9 Tax credit in relation to adjusting items 11.5 1.7 13.2 5.7 5.7 Tax arising on the restructuring of our German operations 2.7 2.7 Adjusting tax item US tax reform 51.0 51.0 38.9 8.1 47.0 25.4 0.4 25.8 Cash flows relating to adjusting items 21.8 10.5 121 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 5.
ADJUSTING ITEMS AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES CONTINUED A number of items have been recorded under adjusting items in 2018 by virtue of their size and or one time nature, in line with our accounting policy in Note 1, in order to provide a better understanding of the Groups results.
The net impact of these items on the Group profit before tax for the year is a debit of $57.5m 2017: debit of $30.9m.
The items fall into a number of categories, as summarised below: Restructuring in 2016 this related to the appointment of a new CEO, CFO and costs associated with reorganising the management structure.
In subsequent years, the cost relates to the IFRS 2 cost of buyouts associated with the new CEO and CFO.
Business transformation the costs incurred in 2017 relate to delivery of the global key account management, and working capital improvement phases of the transformation commenced in 2016.
In 2018 a programme to transform the Coatings segment has been implemented focusing on re-engineering our approach to markets direct vs distributor, our underlying asset base and our product offerings in order to leverage our international networks and key account management.
It is anticipated this will continue through 2019 driving a step change in the Coatings segment.
Increase in environmental provisions due to additional remediation work identified assessments at the end of both 2017 and 2018 have resulted in an increased provision required at a number of our legacy sites.
As these costs relate to nonoperational facilities they are classed as adjusting items.
Costs relating to acquisition activities these are one-off costs predominantly associated with the acquisition of Mondo in 2018 and SummitReheis in 2017 primarily the write off of the set-up costs of the previous financing syndicate now replaced by a new facility, bank and lawyers fees and retention bonuses for Mondo and SummitReheis employees.
Uplift due to fair value of SummitReheis inventory in accordance with IFRS 3, inventory held within SummitReheis was revalued to fair value on acquisition, representing an uplift of $4m over the book value.
As all stock acquired with SummitReheis was sold by the year end, the additional expense recognised in cost of sales due to this fair value uplift has been classed as an adjusting item.
Uplift due to fair value of Mondo inventory in accordance with IFRS 3, inventory held within Mondo was revalued to fair value on acquisition, representing an uplift of $2.9m over the book value.
As all Talc stock to which this uplift relates was sold by the year end, the additional expense recognised in cost of sales due to this fair value uplift has been classed as an adjusting item.
Sale of Colourants business and closure of Jersey City site in March 2017, Elementis disposed of its US Colourants business and closed the Jersey City site.
The profit on sale of the business and costs associated with the closure of the site are classed as an adjusting item.
In 2018 the site was disposed of and the profit on disposal has been treated as an adjusting item due to its size and one-off nature relating to the sale of land.
Release of legal provision during 2017 the Group released $0.7m from a provision set up in 2015 relating to a regulatory case in Europe.
Sale of Surfactants business Disposal costs in 2017 Elementis incurred a number of costs associated with the sale of the Delden facility and Surfactants business.
The profit on sale of the assets and business has been treated as an adjusting item in 2018 and the one-off associated costs were classed similarly in 2017.
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition these costs are excluded from operating profit to provide readers of the accounts with a better understanding of the Groups results on its operating activities.
In 2018 this item includes amortisation on intangibles acquired as part of the Mondo acquisition completed in October 2018.
GMP Pension on 26 October 2018, the High Court ruled on the Lloyds Bank Guaranteed Minimum Pension inequalities case.
In response to this our actuaries have included a past service cost of $3.2m for the estimated costs arising from the judgment.
Surfactants commercial settlement these are costs incurred in settlement of a commercial dispute relating to the Surfactants business disposed of in 2018.
Tax on adjusting items this is the net impact of tax relating to the adjusting items listed above.
Tax arising on the restructuring of our German operations during the year an internal restructuring exercise was undertaken in order to optimise the operational efficiency of the Group on a go forward basis.
This restructuring resulted in a one-off tax charge.
Adjusting tax item US tax reform in 2017 the Group recognised a reduction in the net deferred tax liability arising from timing differences and US goodwill amortisation recognised in the US for tax purposes.
Given the one-off nature of the reduction to future tax liabilities, this was recognised as an adjusting item.
122 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION To support comparability with the financial statements as presented in 2018, the reconciliation to the adjusted consolidated income statement is shown below.
2018 2018 2018 Profit and loss 2018 2018 Profit and loss 2018 Profit and Adjusting after adjusting Profit and Adjusting after adjusting Profit and loss loss on items on items on loss on items on items on after adjusting continuing continuing continuing discontinued discontinued discontinued items on total operations operations operations operations operations operations operations $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 822.2 822.2 4.8 4.8 827.0 Cost of sales 516.6 516.6 4.3 4.3 520.9 Gross profit 305.6 305.6 0.5 0.5 306.1 Distribution costs 111.6 111.6 0.8 0.8 112.4 Administrative expenses 109.0 47.7 61.3 10.1 9.8 0.3 61.6 Net impairment losses on financial assets 0.1 0.1 0.1 Operating profit 84.9 47.7 132.6 10.4 9.8 0.6 132.0 Other expenses 1.6 1.6 1.6 Finance income 0.3 0.3 0.3 Finance costs 18.2 18.2 18.2 Profit before income tax 65.4 47.7 113.1 10.4 9.8 0.6 112.5 Tax 15.6 8.8 24.4 2.0 1.7 0.3 24.1 Profit for the year 49.8 38.9 88.7 8.4 8.1 0.3 88.4 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 49.8 38.9 88.7 8.4 8.1 0.3 88.4 Earnings per share Basic cents 9.5 7.5 17.0 1.6 1.6 17.0 Diluted cents 9.5 7.4 16.9 1.6 1.6 16.9 2017 2017 2017 2017 Profit and loss 2017 2017 Profit and loss Profit and 2017 Adjusting after adjusting Profit and Adjusting after adjusting loss after Profit and loss items on items on loss on items on items on adjusting on continuing continuing continuing discontinued discontinued discontinued items on total operations operations operations operations operations operations operations $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 782.7 782.7 47.6 47.6 830.3 Cost of sales 487.6 487.6 32.8 32.8 520.4 Gross profit 295.1 295.1 14.8 14.8 309.9 Distribution costs 98.0 98.0 6.3 6.3 104.3 Administrative expenses 105.6 31.3 74.3 2.7 0.4 3.1 77.4 Net impairment losses on financial assets 0.1 0.1 0.1 Operating profit 91.4 31.3 122.7 5.8 0.4 5.4 128.1 Other expenses 1.2 1.2 1.2 Finance income 0.2 0.2 0.2 Finance costs 11.9 11.9 11.9 Profit before income tax 78.5 31.3 109.8 5.8 0.4 5.4 115.2 Tax 34.2 56.7 22.5 0.9 0.9 23.4 Profit for the year 112.7 25.4 87.3 4.9 0.4 4.5 91.8 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 112.7 25.4 87.3 4.9 0.4 4.5 91.8 Earnings per share restated Basic cents 22.3 5.1 17.2 1.0 0.1 0.9 18.1 Diluted cents 22.0 5.0 17.0 1.0 0.1 0.9 17.9 Earnings per share as reported in 2017 Basic cents 24.3 5.5 18.8 1.1 0.1 1.0 19.8 Diluted cents 24.0 5.4 18.6 1.0 0.1 0.9 19.5 123 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 5.
ADJUSTING ITEMS AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES CONTINUED To support comparability with the financial statements as presented in 2018, a reconciliation from reported profit loss before interest to adjusted profit before income tax by segment is shown below for each year.
2018 Total of Personal Segment Central continuing Discontinued Care Coatings Talc Chromium Energy totals costs operations operations Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Reported operating profit loss 40.4 57.6 0.2 15.8 7.1 120.7 35.8 84.9 10.4 74.5 Adjusting Items Restructuring 0.2 0.2 0.2 Business transformation 5.6 5.6 5.6 5.6 I ncrease in environmental provisions due to additional remediation workidentified 17.0 17.0 0.5 16.5 16.5 Costs related to acquisition activities 0.2 0.2 16.3 16.5 16.5 Uplift due to fair value of Mondo inventory 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 Sale of Colourants business and closure of Jersey City site 12.7 12.7 12.7 12.7 Sale of Surfactants business 0.5 0.5 0.5 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 11.6 2.0 1.2 0.2 15.0 15.0 15.0 GMP pension 3.2 3.2 3.2 Surfactant customer settlements 9.8 9.8 Adjusted operating profit loss 52.2 52.5 3.9 33.0 7.1 148.7 16.1 132.6 0.6 132.0 Other expenses 1.6 1.6 1.6 Finance income 0.3 0.3 0.3 Finance costs 18.2 18.2 18.2 Adjusted profit before income tax 52.2 52.5 3.9 33.0 7.1 148.7 35.6 113.1 0.6 112.5 2017 Total of Personal Segment Central continuing Discontinued Care Coatings Chromium Energy totals costs operations operations Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Reported operating profit loss 29.2 54.6 28.8 9.7 122.3 30.9 91.4 5.8 97.2 Adjusting Items Restructuring 0.3 0.3 0.9 0.6 0.6 Business transformation 3.4 3.4 3.4 Increase in environmental provisions due to additional remediation workidentified 1.1 1.1 1.0 2.1 2.1 SummitReheis acquisition costs 2.6 2.6 7.1 9.7 9.7 Uplift due to fair value of SummitReheis inventory 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 Sale of Colourants business and closure of Jersey City site 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 Release of legal provision 0.7 0.7 Disposal costs 0.1 0.1 2.1 2.2 0.3 2.5 Amortisation of intangibles arising onacquisition 8.8 2.8 0.2 11.8 11.8 11.8 Adjusted operating profit loss 44.6 54.7 30.1 9.7 139.1 16.4 122.7 5.4 128.1 Other expenses 1.2 1.2 1.2 Finance income 0.2 0.2 0.2 Finance costs 11.9 11.9 11.9 Adjusted profit before income tax 44.6 54.7 30.1 9.7 139.1 29.3 109.8 5.4 115.2 124 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION A reconciliation from reported profit for the year to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA is provided to support understanding of the summarised cash flow included within the Finance Report on pages 36 to 41.
2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Profit and Profit and Profit and Profit and Profit and Profit and loss on loss on loss on loss on loss on loss on continuing discontinued total continuing discontinued total operations operations operations operations operations operations $m $m $m $m $m $m Profit for the year 49.8 8.4 41.4 112.7 4.9 117.6 Adjustments for Finance income 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 Finance costs and other expenses after adjusting items 19.8 19.8 13.1 13.1 Tax charge 15.6 2.0 13.6 34.2 0.9 33.3 Depreciation and amortisation 45.6 0.3 45.9 38.0 1.7 39.7 Excluding intangibles arising on acquisition 15.0 15.0 11.8 11.8 Adjusting items impacting profit before tax 47.7 9.8 57.5 31.3 0.4 30.9 EBITDA 163.2 0.3 162.9 148.9 7.1 156.0 There are also a number of key performance indicators KPIs on pages 30 and 31, the reconciliations to these are given below.
Operating cash flow Operating cash flow is defined as the net cash flow from operating activities less net capital expenditure but excluding income taxes paid or received, interest paid or received, pension contributions net of current service cost and adjusting items.
Contribution margin The Groups contribution margin, which is defined as sales less all variable costs, divided by sales and expressed as apercentage.
2018 2017 $m $m Revenue 827.0 830.3 Variable costs 444.2 437.4 Non variable costs 76.7 50.2 Cost of sales 520.9 487.6 Adjusted Group profit before tax Adjusted Group profit before tax is defined as the Group profit before tax on total operations both continuing and discontinued after adjusting items, excluding adjusting items relating to tax.
Return on operating capital employed The return on operating capital employed ROCE is defined as operating profit after adjusting items divided by operating capital employed, expressed as a percentage.
Operating capital employed comprises fixed assets excluding goodwill, working capital and operating provisions.
Operating provisions include self insurance and environmental provisions but exclude retirement benefitobligations.
Average trade working capital to sales ratio The trade working capital to sales ratio is defined as the 12 month average trade working capital divided by sales, expressed as a percentage.
Trade working capital comprises inventories, trade receivables net of provisions and trade payables.
It specifically excludes repayments, capital or interest related receivables or payables, changes due to currency movements and items classified as other receivables and other payables.
Adjusted operating profit operating margin Adjusted operating profit is the profit derived from the normal operations of the business.
Adjusted operating margin is the ratio of operating profit, after adjusting items, to sales.
125 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 6.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE 2018 2017 $m $m Current tax on continuing operations: Recognition of UK Advance Corporation Tax credits UK corporation tax 8.1 6.9 Overseas corporation tax on continuing operations 11.7 16.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years: United Kingdom 0.9 Overseas 0.2 Total current tax 18.7 22.9 Deferred tax: United Kingdom 1.4 1.0 Overseas 3.8 59.3 Adjustment in respect of prior years: United Kingdom 0.4 0.3 Overseas 5.1 0.9 Total deferred tax 3.1 57.1 Income tax credit expense for the year 15.6 34.2 Comprising: Income tax expense for the year 15.6 34.2 Adjusting items Overseas taxation on adjusting items 6.6 5.7 UK taxation on adjusting items 2.2 Recognition of change in rate of tax US 51.0 Taxation on adjusting items 8.8 56.7 Income tax expense for the year after adjusting items 24.4 22.5 See Note 5 for details of adjusting items.
The tax charge on profits represents an effective rate after adjusting items for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 21.6% 2017: 20.5%.
The Group is international, has operations in several jurisdictions and benefits from cross border financing arrangements.
Accordingly, tax charges of the Group in future periods will be affected by the profitability of operations in different jurisdictions, changes to tax rates and regulations in the jurisdictions within which the Group has operations, as well as the ongoing impact of the Groups funding arrangements.
The medium term expectation for the Groups effective tax rate is around 22.0%.
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2018 2018 2017 2017 $m % $m % Profit before tax on continuing operations 65.4 78.5 Tax on ordinary activities at 19.00% 2017: 19.25% 12.4 19.0 15.1 19.2 Difference in overseas effective tax rates 1.5 2.3 1.2 1.5 Income not taxable and impact of tax efficient financing 6.8 10.5 4.3 5.5 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 16.6 25.4 6.0 7.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6.6 10.2 1.2 1.5 Tax rate changes 1.3 2.0 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax 0.2 0.3 Recognition of adjusting tax items 51.0 64.9 Tax charge and effective tax rate for the year 15.6 23.9 34.2 43.6 The UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 17% from 1 April 2020: this reduction was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
The tax credit related to discontinued operations is $2.0m 2017: charge of $0.9m.
126 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 7.
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Profit for the year including discontinued operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2018 2017 $m $m Employee costs see Note 8 134.6 142.3 Net foreign exchange losses gains 0.3 0.1 Research and development costs 9.3 8.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 30.2 27.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 15.7 12.5 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 45.9 39.7 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 3.2 Write off of inventory 1.2 3.3 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 384.5 386.9 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates: Audit of company 0.4 0.3 Audit of subsidiaries 1.0 0.6 Audit related services interim review 0.1 0.1 Services related to corporate finance transactions 0.3 0.5 8.
EMPLOYEES 2018 2017 $m $m Employee costs: Wages and salaries 117.4 126.9 Social security costs 9.5 9.7 Pension costs 23 7.7 5.7 134.6 142.3 Number Number Average number of FTE employees : Specialty Products 1,155 1,147 Mondo 41 Chromium 258 253 Central 18 17 Total from continuing operations 1,472 1,417 Discontinued operations 33 204 Total including discontinued operations 1,505 1,621 Full time equivalent including contractors.
The discontinued operations and Mondo have both been included on a 12 month average basis but were only active for 2 out of the 12 months.
The aggregate amount of Directors remuneration salary, bonus and benefits is shown in the Remuneration Report on page 83: The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on exercise of share options was $0.9m 2017: $0.8m.
The remuneration of the highest paid Director was $1.6m 2017: $2.5m.
Payments have been made to a defined contribution pension scheme on behalf of 1 Directors 2017: 1 Directors.
For the highest paid Director, pension contributions of $0.2m 2017: $0.2m were made.
127 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 9.
EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the parent is based on thefollowing: Continuing Discontinued Total of all Continuing Discontinued Totalof all operations operations operations operations operations operations 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Earnings: Earnings for the purpose of basic earnings per share 49.8 8.4 41.4 112.7 4.9 117.6 Adjusting items net of tax 38.9 8.1 47.0 25.4 0.4 25.8 Adjusted earnings 88.7 0.3 88.4 87.3 4.5 91.8 Rebased Reported 2018 2017 2017 m m m Number of shares: Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 520.9 506.1 463.2 Effect of dilutive share options 5.4 6.9 6.3 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 526.3 513.0 469.5 Rebased Reported Total Total Total Continuing Discontinued of all Continuing Discontinued of all Continuing Discontinued of all operations operations operations operations operations operations operations operations operations 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 cents cents cents cents cents cents cents cents cents Earnings per share: Basic 9.5 1.6 7.9 22.3 1.0 23.3 24.3 1.1 25.4 Diluted 9.5 1.6 7.9 22.0 1.0 23.0 24.0 1.0 25.0 Basic after adjusting items 17.0 17.0 17.2 0.9 18.1 18.8 1.0 19.8 Diluted after adjusting items 16.9 16.9 17.0 0.9 17.9 18.6 0.9 19.5 The weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year to 31 December 2017 has been rebased to reflect the Rights Issue completed in the current year.
The adjustment to the weighted average number of ordinary shares reflects the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
All other factors remain unchanged.
128 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 10.
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible Goodwill Brand Customer lists assets Total $m $m $m $m $m Cost: At 1 January 2017 321.2 22.6 39.1 382.9 Exchange differences 5.8 1.1 2.8 1.3 11.0 Additions 2.2 2.2 Intangible assets arising on the acquisition of SummitReheis 203.0 3.2 136.9 19.0 362.1 Reclassification as held for sale 3.1 3.7 6.8 At 31 December 2017 526.9 26.9 139.7 57.9 751.4 Exchange differences 10.1 0.5 1.2 3.1 14.9 Additions 1.2 1.2 Intangible assets arising on the acquisition of Mondo 200.5 40.9 47.3 288.7 At 31 December 2018 717.3 26.4 179.4 103.3 1,026.4 Amortisation: At 1 January 2017 23.0 23.0 Charge for the year 0.8 6.2 5.5 12.5 Reclassification as held for sale 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2017 0.8 6.2 27.2 34.2 Charge for the year 1.1 8.5 6.0 15.6 At 31 December 2018 1.9 14.7 33.2 49.8 Carrying amount: At 31 December 2018 717.3 24.5 164.7 70.1 976.6 At 31 December 2017 526.9 26.1 133.5 30.7 717.2 At 1 January 2017 321.2 22.6 16.1 359.9 The amortisation charge includes $nil 2017: $0.4m in respect of discontinued operations related to the amortisation of capitalised REACH costs.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2018 resulting from the split of Elementis Specialty Products is now allocated to Elementis Coatings $202.7m, Energy $28.4m and Personal Care $293.3m the three new operating segments and CGUs.
The carrying value of goodwill attributable to Elementis Specialty Products in 2017 was $523.8m.
The acquisition of Mondo has resulted in the addition of $200.5m of goodwill which sits within the new Talc segment and CGU.
The goodwill associated with Elementis Surfactants 2018: $3.1m, 2017: $3.1m has now been disposed of and there is no goodwill associated with Elementis Chromium.
The Group tests annually for impairment, or more frequently, if there are events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs.
In order to stress test the results over a wider range of conditions, management has expanded its testing to include discount rates based on a variety of equity risk premiums and different capital structures that reflect the potential variability of risk within the CGUs.
During the testing a range of discount rates from 9.1% to 13.5% 2017: 10.1% to 15.0% were used.
In these cases, if estimates of future growth were reduced by 5.0% per annum, there would still be adequate headroom to support the carrying value of the assets.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent plans approved by management for the next three years with cash flows for periods beyond three years extrapolated based on estimated growth rates of between 5.0% and 7.5%.
The rates do not exceed the average long term growth rate for the relevant markets.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The results of the impairment testing using the assumptions discussed show that there is no indication that goodwill might be impaired.
129 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 10.
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED The brand intangibles represent the value ascribed to the trading name and reputation of the Deuchem, Fancor, Watercryl, Hi-Mar and SummitReheis acquisitions.
The Group, with the exception of SummitReheis, considers these to have significant and ongoing value to the business that will be maintained and it is therefore considered appropriate to assign these assets an indefinite useful life.
The brand relating to SummitReheis is being amortised over a period of three years.
The carrying amount of brand intangibles with an indefinite useful life as at 31 December 2018 is $23.1m 2017: $23.7m.
Brand intangibles are tested annually for impairment using similar assumptions to the goodwill testing.
The remaining intangible assets comprise the value ascribed to customer lists, patents and non-compete clauses, which are being amortised over periods of five to 24 years.
130 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 12.
INVENTORIES 2018 2017 $m $m Raw materials and consumables 70.6 50.8 Work in progress 15.3 13.8 Finished goods and goods purchased for resale 102.8 79.0 188.7 143.6 Inventories are disclosed net of provisions for obsolescence of $7.8m 2017: $5.8m.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2018 2017 $m $m Trade receivables 112.4 109.9 Other receivables 13.9 4.1 Prepayments and accrued income 13.1 10.6 139.4 124.6 14.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2018 2017 $m $m Trade payables 61.6 53.6 Other taxes and social security Other payables 20.9 10.1 Accruals and deferred income 58.1 54.0 140.6 117.7 15.
PROVISIONS Environmental Self insurance Restructuring Other Total $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2018 27.8 2.2 0.1 2.6 32.7 Charged credited to the income statement: Increase in provisions due to change in discount rate Set up release of provisions 18.8 0.4 1.1 19.5 Unwinding of discount 1.1 1.1 Utilised during the year 6.5 0.3 0.4 0.5 7.7 Currency translation differences 0.5 0.2 0.5 Additional provision on acquisition 2.6 1.3 3.9 Reclassified as held for sale At 31 December 2018 43.3 1.5 0.8 3.2 48.8 Due within 1 year 5.0 1.0 0.8 0.5 7.3 Due after 1 year 38.3 0.5 2.7 41.5 Environmental provisions relate to manufacturing and distribution sites including certain sites no longer owned by the Group.
These provisions have been derived using a discounted cash flow methodology and reflect the extent to which it is probable that expenditure will be incurred over the next 25 years.
Included within environmental provisions are amounts in respect of all anticipated costs related to the closure and remediation of the Chromium UK site at Eaglescliffe.
Of the $18.8m charged to environmental provisions, $16.5m relates to additional remediation work identified and future monitoring costs, predominantly at our Eaglescliffe, Corpus Christi and Castle Hayne sites.
These charges are included within adjusting items see Note 5.
If the cost estimates on which the provisions at 31 December 2018 are based were to change by 10%, the provision recognised would need to change by approximately $3.9m.
Whilst a range of outcomes is possible, the Directors believe that the reasonably possible range for the environmental provision is from $37.1m to $44.3m.
131 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 15.
PROVISIONS CONTINUED Self-insurance provisions represent the aggregate of outstanding claims plus a projection of losses incurred but not reported.
The self-insurance provisions are expected to be utilised within five years.
Restructuring provisions relate to costs of adjusting head count, training, relocation and other costs of restructuring where a need to do so has been identified by management and are expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions represent payments made for right of first refusal on a quarry, payments for which are linked to the discharge of residue into another quarry owned by the same counterparty.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within five years.
DEFERRED TAX AND ACT RECOVERABLE Retirement Accelerated Amortisation Other benefit tax of US intangible Temporary Unrelieved plans depreciation goodwill assets differences tax losses Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2017 10.2 29.4 94.5 13.5 7.6 92.6 Arising on acquisition 52.8 0.3 52.5 Charge credit to the income statement 1.8 7.1 35.0 15.5 1.2 57.0 Charge to other comprehensive income 7.3 7.3 Charge to retained earnings 1.4 1.4 Currency translation differences 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.3 Reclassification as held for sale 2.8 0.5 3.3 At 1 January 2018 0.9 19.5 59.5 36.7 14.0 7.6 93.2 Arising on acquisition 43.2 0.4 6.3 36.5 Charge credit to the income statement 0.2 12.1 0.9 17.1 4.6 7.5 3.2 Charge to other comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 Charge to retained earnings 2.2 2.2 Currency translation differences 0.1 1.3 0.4 1.6 At 31 December 2018 0.8 31.6 58.6 61.5 17.2 6.4 127.3 Deferred tax assets 0.8 17.2 6.4 24.4 Deferred tax liabilities 31.6 58.6 61.5 151.7 Deferred tax assets have been recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Where this is not the case, deferred tax assetshave not been recognised.
Deferred tax liabilities are reduced for any deferred tax assets which exist within a jurisdiction where consolidated tax returns are filed and where tax assets and liabilities may be netted.
An asset of $42.0m was recognised in 2014 relating to UK advance corporation tax ACT credits which had previously been unrecognised because of uncertainty over future UK taxable profits.
Movements in the ACT recoverable balance are shown below: 2018 2017 $m $m At 1 January 16.2 23.0 Recognition of UK ACT credits Utilisation 8.1 8.6 Currency translation differences 1.7 1.8 At 31 December 9.8 16.2 There are no material losses where deferred tax assets have not been recognised.
At the balance sheet date the aggregate amount of the temporary differences in relation to the investment in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was $20.7m 2017: $19.2m.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and the Group considers that it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
132 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 17.
SHARE CAPITAL 2018 2017 $m $m At 1 January 44.4 44.4 Issue of shares 7.7 At 31 December 52.1 44.4 In October 2018 the Group undertook a Rights Issue on the basis of one share for every four fully paid ordinary shares held.
A total of 116,058,808 ordinary shares were issued at 1.52 per share.
Gross proceeds of $232.7m were received resulting in an increase in share premium of $214.5m after expenses.
Further details of share capital are set out in Note 9 to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
OTHER RESERVES Capital redemption Translation Hedging Share options reserve reserve reserve reserve Total $m $m $m $m $m Balance at 1 January 2017 158.8 79.9 7.3 3.6 75.2 Share based payments 2.8 2.8 Exchange differences 22.7 0.1 22.8 Increase in fair value of derivatives 0.4 0.4 Transfer 2.2 2.2 At 1 January 2018 158.8 57.2 6.9 4.3 99.0 Share based payments 2.9 2.9 Exchange differences 15.8 0.4 16.2 Increase in fair value of derivatives 1.3 1.3 Transfer 1.5 1.5 Balance at 31 December 2018 158.8 73.0 5.6 5.3 85.5 The Company can redeem shares by repaying the market value to the shareholder, whereupon the shares are cancelled.
Redemption must be from distributable profits.
The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of the sharesredeemed.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yetoccurred.
The share options reserve comprises amounts accumulated in equity in respect of share options and awards granted to employees.
133 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 19.
BORROWINGS 2018 2017 $m $m Bank loans 594.2 346.1 The borrowings are repayable as follows: Within one year 2.8 2.7 In the fifth year 591.4 343.4 594.2 346.1 The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 2018 2017 % % Bank loans 3.7 2.7 Group borrowings were denominated as follows: US Dollar Taiwan Dollar Brazilian Real Euro Other Total Bank loans 31 December 2017 305.0 2.7 38.4 346.1 31 December 2018 275.0 2.6 316.6 594.2 Of the US dollar borrowings, $nil was unsecured 2017: $nil, bearing interest at the relevant interbank rates plus a margin.
The Taiwan dollar and remaining US dollar borrowings consisted of those secured by time deposits and those secured by charges over various land and buildings in Taiwan.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement comprise the following: 2018 2017 $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 96.1 55.0 21.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 21 a Risk management objectives The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Credit risk Liquidity risk Market risk The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Groups Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Groups Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
i Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables fromcustomers.
Trade and other receivables The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, has less influence on credit risk.
No single customer accounts for a significant proportion of the Groups revenue.
Each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Groups standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered.
The Groups review includes external ratings, where available, and in some cases bank references.
Purchase limits are established for each customer, which represents the maximum open amount without requiring approval from the Board of Directors.
Customers that fail to meet the Groups benchmark creditworthiness may transact with the Group only on a prepayment basis.
134 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach in establishing an allowance for expected credit losses ECLs.
Therefore, the Group does not track changes in credit risk but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date.
A provision matrix is used to calculate lifetime ECLs which takes into account the Groups historical credit loss experience adjusted for historical conditions that are not relevant to future cashflows and forward looking factors specific to the debtor and economic environment.
Investments The Group limits its exposure to credit risk through a treasury policy that imposes graduated limits on the amount of funds that can be deposited with counterparties by reference to the counterparties credit ratings, as defined by Standard & Poors or Moodys.
Management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting datewas: Carrying amount 2018 2017 $m $m Trade receivables 112.4 109.9 Other receivables 13.9 4.1 Cash and cash equivalents 96.1 55.0 222.2 169.0 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: Carrying amount 2018 2017 $m $m North America 35.0 30.2 Europe 36.6 30.8 Rest of the world 40.8 48.9 112.4 109.9 Expected credit losses Set out below is the information about the credit risk exposure on the Groups trade receivables using a provision matrix: Expected credit Gross loss Gross Impairment 2018 Expected credit 2018 2017 Expected credit 2017 $m loss rate $m $m loss rate $m Not past due 98.4 1.6% 1.6 97.9 0.6% 0.6 Past due 0-30 days 12.4 0.8% 0.1 8.6 Past due 31-120 days 2.7 3.7% 0.1 3.3 Past due 121 days 0.9 22.2% 0.2 1.0 30.0% 0.3 Total 114.4 2.0 110.8 0.9 The movement in the allowance for expected credit losses during the year was as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Balance at 1 January calculated under IFRS 9 0.9 0.6 Increase in expected credit loss allowance recognised in profit or loss during the year 0.1 0.1 Increase in provision on acquisition of SummitReheis 0.2 Increase in provision on acquisition of Mondo 1.0 Balance at 31 December 2.0 0.9 The allowance for expected credit losses relates primarily to customers of Elementis Chromium who, due to their payment history and geographic location, are assessed as having a higher exposure to credit risk than is acceptable.
An allowance for expected credit losses is therefore deemed to be appropriate.
135 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 21.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED ii Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Groups funding policy is to have committed borrowings in place to cover at least 125% of the maximum forecast net borrowings for the next 12 month period.
At the year end the Group had $206.5m 2017: $158.2m of undrawn committed facilities, of which $180.0m expires after more than 1 year.
Exposure to liquidity risk The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of nettingagreements: 31 December 2018 Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1 year amount cash flows or less months or more $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities at amortised cost: Unsecured bank loan Secured bank loan 594.2 594.2 2.8 591.4 Trade and other payables 72.5 72.5 72.5 666.9 666.9 75.3 591.6 Excludes derivatives.
31 December 2017 Carrying Carrying 6 months 6-12 1 year amount cash flows or less months or more $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Unsecured bank loan Secured bank loan 346.1 346.1 2.7 343.4 Trade and other payables 69.0 69.0 69.0 415.1 415.1 71.7 343.4 Excludes derivatives.
Bank loans have been drawn under committed facilities and can be re-financed on maturity from the same facilities.
The contractual maturities indicated reflect the maturing of the loans rather than the end date of the facilities.
iii Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, whilst optimising the return on risk.
The Group uses derivatives in the ordinary course of business, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks.
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board.
Market risk currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a foreign currency other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities, primarily the USdollar and the euro.
The Group hedges up to 100% of current and forecast trade receivables and trade payables denominated in a foreign currency.
The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
Interest on borrowings is denominated in currencies that match the cash flows generated by the underlying operations of the Group, primarily US dollar, but also euro and pounds sterling.
This provides an economic hedge in instances where hedging derivatives are not entered into.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary to address short term imbalances.
The Groups net investment in overseas subsidiaries creates exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations.
The risk is hedged by USdollar and euro denominated drawdowns under the syndicated facility designated as the hedged item in net investment hedge relationships.
This mitigates the currency risk arising from the retranslation of a subsidiarys net assets into pounds sterling, the functional currency of the ultimate parent Elementis plc.
136 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Exposure to currency risk The Groups exposure to currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: 2018 2017 USD Euro Other USD Euro Other $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade receivables 62.4 27.9 22.1 59.5 29.6 20.8 Trade payables 35.4 10.6 15.6 28.8 12.9 11.9 Gross balance sheet exposure 27.0 17.3 6.5 30.7 16.7 8.9 Forward exchange contracts 28.8 28.8 Net exposure 27.0 17.3 6.5 30.7 12.1 37.7 The main exchange rates relevant to the Group are set out in the Finance report on page 40.
Currency risk sensitivity analysis A 10% strengthening of US dollar against the following currencies at 31 December 2018 would have increased decreased equityand profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Equity Profit or loss $m $m 31 December 2018 GBP 14.9 3.5 Euro 58.0 7.8 RMB 4.1 1.3 TWD 2.7 0.1 31 December 2017 GBP 24.9 2.5 Euro 47.1 5.1 RMB 3.8 1.6 TWD 3.2 0.1 A 10% strengthening of USD against all currencies will have increased decreased the carrying amount of variable rate instruments asfollows: Carrying amount 2018 2017 $m $m Variable rate instruments Financial liabilities 31.9 4.1 Market risk interest rate The Groups policy is to borrow at both fixed and floating interest rates and to use interest rate swaps to generate the required interest profile.
These interest swaps are designated within cashflow hedging relationships with the interest payments on the borrowings they are hedging.
The risk being hedged is the exposure of the Group to market rate volatility on a portion of the core Group debt.
The Group policy does not require that a specific proportion of the Groups borrowings are at fixed rates of interest.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased decreased profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
2018 2017 Profit or loss Profit or loss 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp increase decrease increase decrease $m $m $m $m Variable rate instruments 3.5 2.8 1.8 1.8 137 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 21.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Other market price risk Equity price risk arises from equity securities held within the Groups defined benefit pension obligations.
In respect of the US schemes, management monitors the mix of debt and equity securities in its investment portfolio based on market expectations.
The primary goal of the Groups investment strategy is to maximise investment returns, without excessive risk taking, in order to meet partially the Groups unfunded benefit obligations: management is assisted by external advisers in this regard.
In respect of the UK scheme, the investment strategy is set by the trustees and the Board is kept informed.
The Group does not enter into commodity contracts other than to meet the Groups expected usage and sale requirements: such contracts are not settled net.
iv Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence, sustain future development of the business and maximise shareholder value.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent comprising capital, reserves and retained earnings.
Financing for the recent acquisition of Mondo was part funded through a Rights Issue and part through drawdowns on the Groups syndicated borrowing facility.
The Group utilises a mix of debt funding sources including term loans and revolving credit facilities RCF from the Groups syndicated borrowing facility with differing maturities to ensure continuity and provide flexibility.
The group is subject to two financial covenants which apply to the Groups syndicated borrowing facility, as such the group is required to maintain a ratio of net debt to EBITDA of less than 3.75x and minimum net interest cover of 3.0x in relation to earnings before net interest expense and tax.
The Net debt to EBITDA ratio stood at 2.5x times at 31 December 2018 and the Directors anticipate the strong cash generation of the Enlarged Group to drive a material deleveraging profile going forwards, with leverage reducing to a net debt to EBITDA ratio of around 2.0x by the end of 2019.
Net interest cover at 31 December 2018 was 10.0x.
The Board monitors the return on operating capital employed ROCE both including and excluding goodwill, as defined on pages30 and 31.
The Groups target is to achieve a ROCE including goodwill in excess of our weighted average cost of capital.
The dividend policy is set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9.
The following table shows amounts recognised in profit or loss in relation to financial assets and liabilities within the scope of IFRS9: 2018 2017 $m $m Recognised in profit or loss Interest income on bank deposits held at amortised cost 0.3 0.2 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred from equity 0.1 Financial income 0.4 0.2 Interest on bank loan held within designated cashflow hedge relationship 16.8 9.7 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred from equity 0.3 Financial costs 16.8 11.1 Net financial costs 16.4 10.9 None of the above relates to financial assets or liabilities held at fair value through profit and loss.
138 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The following table shows amounts recognised directly in equity in relation to financial assets and liabilities within the scope of IFRS9: 2018 2017 $m $m Recognised directly in equity Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge 1.4 0.1 Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to income statement 0.1 0.3 Effective portion of change in fair value of net investment hedge 20.5 22.9 Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations 0.5 0.2 Recognised in Hedging reserve 1.3 0.4 Translation reserve 20.0 22.7 Loans and borrowings 2018 2017 $m $m Current liabilities Unsecured bank loan Secured bank loan 2.8 2.7 Non-current liabilities Secured bank loan 591.6 343.4 Maturity analysis of financial liabilities The terms and conditions of outstanding loans and derivatives in liability positions were as follows: 2018 2017 Carrying Carrying Year of Face value amount Face value amount Currency maturity $m $m $m $m Secured bank loan USD 2023 275.0 275.0 305.0 305.0 Secured bank loan TWD 2019 2.6 2.6 2.7 2.7 Secured bank loan EUR JPY 2023 316.6 316.6 38.4 38.4 Total liabilities 594.2 594.2 346.1 346.1 The secured bank loans are secured by guarantees provided by subsidiary companies and against land and buildings in Taiwan.
139 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 21.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 21 b Fair values Fair values versus carrying amounts The fair values of financial assets and liabilities and classifications under IFRS 9, together with carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value $m $m $m $m Financial assets at amortised cost: 1 Trade and other receivables 126.3 126.3 114.0 114.0 Cash and cash equivalents 96.1 96.1 55.0 55.0 Derivative contracts in designated hedging relationships: Financial assets 2.0 2.0 0.9 0.9 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Unsecured bank facility Secured bank loan 594.2 594.2 343.3 343.4 1 Trade and other payables 140.6 140.6 129.2 129.2 510.4 510.4 301.7 301.7 Unrecognised gain loss 1 Excludes derivatives.
Derivatives used for hedging included within current assets amounted to $2.0m at 31 December 2018 2017: $0.9m and $nil within current liabilities 2017: nil.
Basis for determining fair values The Group measures fair values in respect of financial instruments in accordance with IFRS 13, using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements: Level 1: Quoted market price unadjusted in an active market for an identical instrument.
Level 2: Valuation techniques based on observable inputs, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs.
This category includes contingent consideration.
The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments.
Derivatives level 2 The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on their listed market price, if available.
If a listed market price is not available, then fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk free interest based on government bonds.
Non-derivatives financial liabilities level 2 Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
Contingent consideration payable level 3 Fair value has been estimated by calculating the present value of the future expected cash flows.
Expected cash inflows are estimated based on the terms of the sale and purchase contract, the entitys knowledge of the business and how the current economic environment is likely to impact it.
As disclosed in Note 31 a liability of $22.3m has been recognised as at the date of acquisition.
There were no significant interrelationships between unobservable inputs that materially affect fair values.
140 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Interest rates used for determining fair value The interest rates used to discount estimated cash flows, where applicable, are based on the government yield curve at the reporting date plus an adequate constant credit spread, and were as follows: 2018 2017 % % Borrowings 1.55.2 1.03.3 At both 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 there was no difference between the carrying value and fair value of financialinstruments.
21 c Hedging activities The Group is exposed to certain risks relating to its ongoing business operations.
The primary risks managed using derivative instruments are foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Groups risk management strategy and how it is applied to manage risk are explained in Note 21 a above.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Cash flow hedges Foreign currency risk Foreign exchange forward contracts are designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges of forecast sales, these forecast transactions are highly probable.
The foreign exchange forward contract balances vary with the level of expected foreign currency sales and purchases and changes in foreign exchange forward rates.
In the month of maturity of the forward exchange contract, the cash flow from the derivative is matched with the cash flow on the transaction.
Transactions are for the same currency, amount portion designated as hedged item and are expected to occur within the same month thus providing the economic relationship.
The value of the forward contracts taken out are for the same amount as the expected future cash flows resulting in a hedge ratio of 1:1 or 100%.
Interest rate risk The Group enters into interest rate swaps to swap the interest arising from the Groups syndicated rolling credit facility from floating to fixed.
Interest payments are highly probable, the hedged risk is the change in the market interest rate, therefore the margin is not included in the designation.
The hedged item is the interest rate cash flows on the $100m Facility.
A debt maturing Feb 2022, the Groups total USD debt is given in Note 19 to the financial statements.
The principal terms notional, reset date, tenor of the hedged item and the hedged instrument have been matched along with the contractual interest cash flows, therefore creating an exact offset for this transaction resulting in a net fixed interest payable.
As the interest rate swap and the hedged item are matched equal and opposite terms of interest rate, date and maturity this results in a designated hedge ratio of 1:1 or 100%.
Hedge ineffectiveness can arise from: Changes in timing of the hedged item Reduction in the amount of the hedged sales considered to be highly probable or price A change in the credit risk of Elementis or the bank counterparty to the forward contract Foreign currency basis spreads 141 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 21.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Group is holding the following foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps: Maturity Less than 1month 1 5 years Interest rate swaps Notional amount in USD m 100.0 Weighted average hedged rate for the year 2.0% The impact of the hedging instruments on the statement of financial position is, as follows: Line item in the Notional Carrying statement of amount amount financial position $m $m $m At 31 December 2018 Interest rate swaps 100 2.0 Derivatives Current assets The effect of cash flow hedges in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income is, as follows: Total Amount hedging gain reclassified from Line item in the loss recognised OCI to profit or statement of in OCI loss profit or loss $m $m $m Year ended 31 December 2018 Derivative cash flow hedging instruments 1.4 0.1 Admin expenses Year ended 31 December 2017 Derivative cash flow hedging instruments 0.1 0.3 Admin expenses Amounts reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss are due to the hedged item affecting profit or loss in the period.
There were no instances of non-occurance of hedged cashflows in either the current or comparative period.
142 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Hedge of net investments in foreign operations The Groups total EUR borrowings of $316.7m have been designated as a hedge of the net investments in the Groups EUR functional currency subsidiaries.
This borrowing is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to the EUR foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Gains or losses on the retranslation of this borrowing are transferred to OCI to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
The Groups total USD borrowing of $275.0m has been designated as a hedge of the net investments in the Groups USD functional currency subsidiaries.
This borrowing is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to the USD foreign exchange risk on these investments.
The amount and currency of the hedging instrument has been matched to the portion of net assets designated as the hedged item therefore changes in the value of the hedging instrument are expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair value of the hedged item forming the basis of the economic relationship.
The hedge ratio is based on the value of the net investment designated as the hedged item which is the same amount as the respective borrowing hedging instrument.
This results in a hedge ratio of 1:1 or 100%.
Hedge ineffectiveness will arise if the value of the borrowing designated in the hedge relationship exceeds the value of the investment in the foreign subsidiary.
The impact of the hedging instruments on the statement of financial position is, as follows: Line item in the statement of Notional amount Carrying amount financial position m $m $m At 31 December 2018 EUR denominated borrowing EUR 277.0 316.8 Loans and borrowings USD denominated borrowing USD 275.0 275.0 Loans and borrowings The impact of hedged items on the statement of financial position is, as follows: Foreign Foreign currency currency translation translation reserve reserve $m $m Net investment in foreign subsidiaries 0.6 0.2 143 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 21.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Impact of hedging on equity Set out below is the reconciliation of each component of equity and the analysis of other comprehensive income: Foreign currency Cash flow hedge translation reserve reserve $m $m As at 1 January 2017 7.3 79.9 Effective portion of changes in fair value arising from: Derivative cash flow hedging instruments 0.1 Amount reclassified to profit or loss 0.3 Foreign currency revaluation of the net foreign operations 0.2 Foreign currency revaluation of borrowings 22.9 Tax effect As at 1 January 2018 6.9 57.2 Effective portion of changes in fair value arising from: Derivative cash flow hedging instruments 1.4 Amount reclassified to profit or loss 0.1 Foreign currency revaluation of the net foreign operations 0.6 Foreign currency revaluation of borrowings 20.5 Tax effect As at 31 December 2018 5.6 72.9 22.
OPERATING LEASES 2018 2017 $m $m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 8.1 4.5 At the balance sheet date, the Group has undiscounted outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Within one year 10.6 4.2 In the second to fifth years inclusive 19.7 9.5 After five years 18.0 9.9 48.3 23.6 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties, plant and machinery.
Leases have varying terms and renewal rights.
144 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 23.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group has a number of contributory and non-contributory post retirement benefit plans providing retirement benefits for the majority of employees and Executive Directors.
At 31 December 2018 the main schemes in the UK and US were of the defined benefit type, the benefit being based on number of years of service and either the employees final remuneration or the employees average remuneration during a period of years before retirement.
The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds or are unfunded but provided for on the Group balance sheet.
As mentioned within the critical accounting judgements section in Note 1 accounting policies, the UK defined benefit scheme had a surplus, under IAS 19 of $22.1m 2017: $21.9m.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRIC 14 management have concluded that the right to reduce the minimum funding contributions when the deficit falls below $10.4m in conjunction with the unconditional right to a refund of any surplus under any winding up of the plan provides sufficient evidence that an asset ceiling does not exist and as such the full surplus has been recognised.
In addition the Group operates an unfunded post retirement medical benefit PRMB scheme in the US.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually based on the employee remaining in service until retirement age and completion of a minimum service period.
Other employee benefit schemes included in the table overleaf at 1 January 2018 relate to two unfunded pension schemes, a long term service award scheme in Germany and a special benefits programme for a small number of former employees of the Eaglescliffe plant.
The Group also acquired two further unfunded pension schemes and two long term service award schemes all in Germany.
These are also included within this category.
The Group also operates a small number of defined contribution schemes and the contributions payable during the year are recognised as incurred.
The pension charge for the defined contribution pension schemes for continuing operations for the year is $3.0m 2017: $3.5m.
Net defined benefit liability The net liability was as follows: UK pension US pension US PRMB scheme schemes scheme Other Total $m $m $m $m $m 2018 Total market value of assets 671.3 108.3 779.6 Present value of scheme liabilities 649.2 124.0 5.6 10.7 789.5 Net asset liability recognised in the balance sheet 22.1 15.7 5.6 10.6 9.9 UK pension US pension US PRMB scheme schemes scheme Other Total $m $m $m $m $m 2017 Total market value of assets 778.7 120.3 899.0 Present value of scheme liabilities 756.8 135.2 6.2 11.3 909.5 Net asset liability recognised in the balance sheet 21.9 14.9 6.2 11.3 10.5 Employer contributions in 2018 were $0.5m 2017: $7.3m to the UK scheme and $1.9m 2017: $2.6m to US schemes.
Top up contributions to the UK scheme in 2019 will be nil based on the 2017 triennial valuation.
Further details on agreed future payments to the UK pension scheme are included in the Finance Report.
145 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 23.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Movement in net defined benefit liability The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for the net defined benefit liability and its components.
UK pension US pension US PRMB scheme schemes scheme Other Total $m $m $m $m $m 2018 Balance at 1 January 21.9 14.9 6.2 11.3 10.5 Included in profit or loss Current service cost 0.8 0.7 0.1 0.1 1.7 Past service cost 3.4 3.4 Running costs 1.2 0.4 1.6 Net interest expense 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.4 4.9 1.6 0.3 0.3 7.1 Included in other comprehensive income Re-measurements: Return on plan assets excluding interest income 39.8 8.9 48.7 Actuarial gains losses arising from demographic assumptions 22.0 0.3 22.3 Actuarial gains arising from financial assumptions 39.1 8.1 0.3 47.5 Actuarial gains losses arising from experience adjustment 15.4 15.4 Exchange differences 1.3 0.5 0.8 4.6 0.5 0.3 0.5 4.9 Contributions: Employers 0.5 1.3 0.6 0.4 2.8 Deficit in schemes at 31 December 22.1 15.7 5.6 10.7 9.9 146 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION UK pension US pension US PRMB scheme schemes scheme Other Total $m $m $m $m $m 2017 Balance at 1 January 4.3 23.1 6.3 5.0 30.1 Liabilities assumed as part of the acquisition of SummitReheis 4.7 4.7 Included in profit or loss Current service cost 0.8 0.5 0.1 0.2 1.6 Running costs 0.9 0.3 1.2 Net interest expense 0.3 0.9 0.2 0.3 1.1 1.4 1.7 0.3 0.5 3.9 Included in other comprehensive income Re-measurements: Return on plan assets excluding interest income 23.4 13.2 36.6 Actuarial gains losses arising from demographic assumptions 0.7 0.7 Actuarial gains arising from financial assumptions 14.1 6.1 0.4 0.3 20.3 Actuarial gains losses arising from experience adjustment 1.1 0.3 1.4 Exchange differences 1.3 1.4 0.1 11.7 8.1 0.4 1.1 18.3 Contributions: Employers 7.3 1.8 0.8 9.9 Deficit in schemes at 31 December 21.9 14.9 6.2 11.3 10.5 Plan assets Plan assets comprise: UK pension US pension US PRMB scheme schemes scheme Total $m $m $m $m 2018 Equities 227.6 41.2 268.7 Bonds 367.4 54.4 421.9 Cash liquidity funds 76.3 12.7 89.0 671.3 108.3 779.6 UK pension US pension US PRMB scheme schemes scheme Total $m $m $m $m 2017 Equities 260.8 60.9 321.7 Bonds 421.8 7.6 429.4 Cash liquidity funds 96.1 51.8 147.9 778.7 120.3 899.0 Including LDI repurchase agreement liabilities.
To reduce volatility risk a liability driven investment LDI strategy forms part of the Trustees management of the UK defined benefit schemes assets, including government bonds, corporate bonds and derivatives.
The bond assets category in the table above includes gross assets of $502.7m 2017: $557.6m and associated repurchase agreement liabilities of $135.2m 2017: $135.8m.
Repurchase agreements are entered into with counterparties to better offset the schemes exposure to interest and inflation rates, whilst remaining invested in assets of a similar risk profile.
Interest rate and inflation rate derivatives are also employed to complement the use of fixed and indexed linked bonds in matching the profile of the schemes liabilities.
147 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 23.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED All equities, bonds and liquidity funds have quoted prices in active markets.
Other assets include insured annuities, an insurance fund and various swap products.
Within the UK pension scheme, the current asset allocation is approximately 33% in a liability matching fund consisting of gilts fixed interest and index linked, bonds, cash and swaps, 20% in a buy and maintain fund and 47% in an investment fund that includes various equity and equity like funds.
The aim of the trustees is to manage the risk relative to the liabilities associated with the schemes investments through a combination of diversification, inflation protection and hedging of risk currency, interest rate and inflation risk.
The US scheme currently has approximately 38% of its asset value invested in a range of equity funds designed to target higher returns and thus reduce the pension deficit, with the balance invested in fixed income bonds and cash.
The strategy is that as the deficit reduces, a greater proportion of investments will be made into liability matching funds.
Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the major schemes are as follows: UK pension US pension US PRMB scheme schemes scheme Total $m $m $m $m 2018 Opening fair value of plan assets 778.7 120.3 899.0 Expected return 18.0 4.0 22.0 Running costs 1.2 0.4 1.6 Actuarial gains 39.8 8.9 48.7 Contributions by employer 0.5 1.4 1.9 Contributions by employees 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 42.7 8.1 50.8 Exchange differences 42.3 42.3 Closing fair value of plan assets 671.3 108.3 779.6 UK pension US pension US PRMB scheme schemes scheme Total $m $m $m $m 2017 Opening fair value of plan assets 702.9 109.8 812.7 Expected return 18.7 4.1 22.8 Running costs 0.9 0.3 1.2 Actuarial gain 23.4 13.2 36.6 Contributions by employer 7.3 1.8 9.1 Contributions by employees 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 39.9 8.3 48.2 Exchange differences 67.1 67.1 Closing fair value of plan assets 778.7 120.3 899.0 Defined benefit obligation Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the major schemes are as follows: UK pension US pension US PRMB scheme schemes scheme Total $m $m $m $m 2018 Opening defined benefit obligation 756.8 135.2 6.2 898.2 Service cost 0.8 0.7 0.1 1.6 Past service cost 3.4 3.4 Interest cost 17.5 4.4 0.2 22.1 Contributions by employees Actuarial gains losses 45.7 8.2 0.3 54.2 Benefits paid 42.7 8.1 0.6 51.4 Exchange differences 40.9 40.9 Closing defined benefit obligation 649.2 124.0 5.6 778.8 148 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION UK pension US pension US PRMB scheme schemes scheme Total $m $m $m $m 2017 Opening defined benefit obligation 698.6 132.9 6.3 837.8 Service cost 0.8 0.5 0.1 1.4 Interest cost 18.4 5.0 0.2 23.6 Contributions by employees 0.1 0.1 Actuarial losses 12.9 5.1 0.4 18.4 Benefits paid 39.8 8.3 0.8 48.9 Exchange differences 65.8 65.8 Closing defined benefit obligation 756.8 135.2 6.2 898.2 Actuarial assumptions A full actuarial valuation was carried out on 30 September 2017 for the UK scheme and at 31 December 2015 for the US schemes.
The principal assumptions used by the actuaries for the major schemes have been updated by the actuaries at the balance sheet date and were as follows: UK US % % 2018 Rate of increase in salaries 4.2 3.00 3.45 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.1 N A Discount rate 2.8 4.0 Inflation 3.2 2.25 2017 Rate of increase in salaries 4.2 3.00 3.45 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.1 N A Discount rate 2.4 3.4 Inflation 3.2 2.0 The assumed life expectancies on retirement are: UK US 2018 2017 2018 2017 years years years years Retiring at 31 December 2018 Males 22 23 21 21 Females 24 25 22 22 Retiring in 20 years Males 24 25 21 21 Females 25 26 23 23 The main assumptions for the PRMB scheme are a discount rate of 4.0% 2017: 3.4% per annum and a health care cost trend of 6.5% 2017: 6.5% per annum for claims pre age 65 reducing to 4.5% per annum by 2022 2017: 4.5%.
Actuarial valuations of retirement benefit plans in other jurisdictions have either not been updated for IAS 19 purposes or disclosed separately because of the costs involved and the considerably smaller scheme sizes and numbers of employees involved.
At 31 December 2018, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations for the major schemes was as follows: UK: 13 years US: 10 years.
149 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 23.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Sensitivity analysis The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increased decreased by 0.5% Decreased increased by 7% Rate of inflation Increased decreased by 0.5% Increased decreased by 4% Rate of salary growth Increased decreased by 0.5% Increased decreased by 0% Rate of mortality Increased by 1 year Increased by 4% The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement of the defined obligation following a change in a particular assumption in isolation, assuming no other changes in market conditions.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS The Group maintains a number of active share option and award plans and schemes for its employees.
These are as follows: Savings-related options Options are granted under the tax-advantaged Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme in the UK.
The SAYE allows UK-based eligible employees to acquire options over the Companys shares at a discount of up to 20% of their market value at the date of grant.
Options are normally exercisable during the six month period following either the third or fifth anniversary of the start of the relevant savings contract.
Savings contracts are subject to the statutory savings limit of 500 per month.
US-based employees can enter into a similar share save scheme Share Save.
Employees can enter into two year savings contracts saving up to a maximum of $2,000 per month, allowing eligible employees to acquire options over the Companys shares at a discount of up to 15% of their market value at the date of grant.
Long-term incentive plan LTIP awards The LTIP is a discretionary employee share scheme for Executive Directors and senior managers.
The vesting of the awards are subject to performance conditions over a three year period at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The performance conditions of the LTIP are detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 92.
As approved at the 2018 AGM, restricted shares i. e. shares that vest based on time only are awarded to participants below Board level.
Shadow LTIPs are in place for senior managers based in China and Malaysia.
Deferred share bonus plan DSBP awards The DSBP operates exclusively for the Executive Directors.
Under this scheme, 50% of any cash bonus payable is awarded in shares and deferred for two years.
There are no other performance conditions other than continued employment.
Legacy Schemes Prior to the introduction of the LTIP for senior managers, certain employees participated in the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
The ESOS which except for outstanding awards which will run their course has been discontinued.
The Company operated shadow ESOS for a number of senior managers, who were employed or based in China or Malaysia.
Options were valued as shown in the table below using the binomial option pricing model.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 2018 2017 Fair value per option pence 155.4 145.0 Expected volatility % 26 29.0 Risk free rate % 0.7 0.2 Expected dividend yield % 3.4 4.1 150 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous five years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses of $2.8m 2017: $2.8m related to share based payment transactions during the year.
2 The number of shares over which outstanding awards were over was adjusted by a factor of 1.092715 to reflect the dilutive effect of the 2018 Rights Issue T hese options include cash settled shadow executive options granted to a number of executives on the same basis as the executive options with the same performance conditions and exercise provisions.
These shadow options are included in the calculation of the total expenses recognised by the Group related to share based payments.
The closing balance of the 2011, 2012, 2016, 2017 options shown above include approximately 5,000, 18,000, 93,000, and 57,000 shadow options respectively.
Awards made as one-off agreements that borrow from the terms of the LTIP.
T hese options include cash settled shadow LTIPs granted to a number of executives on the same basis as the LTIP with the same performance conditions and exercise provisions.
These shadow LTIPs are included in the calculation of the total expenses recognised by the Group related to share based payments.
The closing balance of 2017 and 2018 LTIPs shown above include approximately 14,000 and 78,000 shadow LTIPs respectively.
# Conditional share award under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Awards made as one-off agreements under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the above shares outstanding at 31 December 2018 was 7.1 years 2017: 7.2 years.
151 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 24.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED The weighted average exercise prices of options disclosed in the previous table were as follows: 2018 2017 Average Average exercise exercise price p price p At 1 January 113.2 110.9 Granted 41.7 114.8 Exercised 118.9 125.4 Expired 147.4 83.4 At 31 December 79.8 120.1 Exercisable at 31 December nil nil The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the year was 153 pence 2017: 287 pence.
The number of exercisable options outstanding as at 31 December 2018 was nil 31 December 2017: nil.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Company is a guarantor to the UK pension scheme under which it guarantees all current and future obligations of UKsubsidiaries currently participating in the pension scheme to make payments to the scheme, up to a specified maximum amount.
The maximum amount of the guarantee is that which is needed at the time the guarantee is called on to bring the schemes funding level up to 105% of its liabilities, calculated in accordance with section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004.
This is also sometimes known as a Pension Protection Fund PPF guarantee, as having such a guarantee in place reduces the annual PPF levy on the scheme.
The Group consists of the Parent Company, Elementis plc, incorporated in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries and associates.
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of related undertakings, the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned as at 31 December 2018 is disclosed in Note 8 to the parent company financial statements.
MOVEMENT IN NET CASH BORROWINGS 2018 2017 $m $m Change in net cash resulting from cash flows: Increase in cash and cash equivalents 45.9 31.7 Decrease in borrowings repayable within one year 0.2 2.8 Decrease in borrowings repayable after one year 257.8 338.8 212.1 367.7 Currency translation differences 5.1 0.9 Increase in net cash 207.0 368.6 Net cash at beginning of year 291.1 77.5 Net cash at end of year 498.1 291.1 27.
DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of 2.95 cents per share 2017: 2.70 cents was paid on 28 September 2018 and the Group is proposing a final dividend of 5.70 cents per share 2017: 6.10 cents for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The total dividend for the year is 8.65 cents per share 2017: 8.80 cents.
The amount payable for the final dividend, based on the anticipated number of qualifying ordinary shares registered on the record date, is $33.0m.
The payment of this dividend will not have any tax consequences for the Group.
Following the Rights Issue in October 2018, dividends per share for periods prior to this have been rebased to reflect the bonus element resulting from this Rights Issue.
2018 2017 Interim Final Full-year Interim Final Full-year Unadjusted dividend per share cents 2.95 5.70 8.65 2.70 6.10 8.80 Adjustment factor x 0.9152 1.00 0.9152 0.9152 Rebased dividend per share cents 2.70 5.70 8.40 2.47 5.58 8.05 152 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 28.
KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION 2018 2017 $m $m Salaries and short term employee benefits 2.3 4.7 Other long term benefits 0.4 0.6 Share based payments 1.6 1.7 4.3 7.0 The key management compensation given above is for the Board and the business president, Chromium.
Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 78 to 92.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES As is the case with other chemical companies, the Group occasionally receives notices of litigation relating to regulatory and legal matters.
A provision is recognised when the Group believes it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Where it is deemed that an obligation is merely possible and that the probability of a material outflow is not remote, the Group would disclose a contingentliability.
In 2013 the British Government through HMRC introduced a UK tax incentive for certain Group financing arrangements.
In October 2017, the European Commission opened a State aid investigation into the rules relating to this incentive under the UK controlled foreign company regime.
HMRC has provided certain information and maintains that the exemption and the way it is applied does not represent unfair State aid.
Elementis could be impacted by the outcome of this investigation as it has, along with many other UK based multinationals, benefited from the arrangements.
No provision for this potential liability has been provided in these financial statements as the final outcome remains uncertain.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE On 26 February 2019 the Group received notice of a payment due in settlement of a commercial dispute with a customer of the Surfactants business disposed of in 2018.
The total amount payable of $9.8m has been recognised as a liability at 31 December 2018.
This amount was not recognised in previous accounts.
There were no other significant events after the balance sheet date.
ACQUISITION On 23 October 2018 the Group acquired all the shares of Mondo Minerals Holding B. V. Mondo, for an initial purchase consideration of $500m.
Mondo is a leading mine-to-market producer of talc and other mineral products with a strong presence in Northern and Central Europe and a growing customer base in Eastern Europe, Southern Europe, South America and Asia.
The Mondo Group supplies talc to customers operating in a wide range of end markets, including industrial sectors e. g. plastics, paints & coatings, technical ceramics, life sciences and paper sectors e. g. paper filler, paper coatings.
Mondo uses proprietary flotation process know how and formulation expertise to deliver superior product quality and consistency to its customers.
The acquisitions had the following effect on the Groups assets and liabilities: Book value at Fair value Fair value of acquisition adjustments assets acquired Note $m $m $m Intangible assets 10 19.6 68.7 88.3 Property, plant and equipment 11 226.2 24.1 250.3 Inventories 24.3 1.9 26.2 Trade and other receivables 21.9 1.1 20.8 Tax indemnification asset 6.6 6.6 Trade and other payables 18.1 1.0 19.1 Other accruals 26.1 26.1 Cash and cash equivalents 39.9 39.9 Provisions 15 2.7 1.1 3.8 Corporation tax 0.4 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax 16 12.2 24.3 36.5 Total identifiable net assets acquired 272.4 74.0 346.4 Goodwill 200.5 Total consideration 546.9 of which: Contingent consideration 22.3 Considered paid, satisfied in 524.6 Cash acquired 39.9 Net cash outflow 484.7 153 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED 31.
ACQUISITION CONTINUED The fair value adjustment to inventories of $1.9m is the net of an uplift due to fair value of $2.9m less an increase in provision for obsolescence of $1.0m.
The valuation techniques used for measuring the fair value of material assets acquired were as follows.
Assets acquired Valuation technique Property, plant and A cost approach method, benchmarked to market where available, was the method used to value equipment machinery & equipment and buildings.
Land that had previously been valued during a purchase price allocation exercise conducted in 2012 was included at NBV due to managements opinion that values had not varied significantly in the intervening period.
Intangible assets Intangible assets have been categorised into two groups: customer relationships and technology.
Customer relationships have been valued using a Multi-period Excess Earnings Method, in which the value is equal to the present value of incremental after-tax cash flows attributable to the asset after deducting contributory asset charges.
Technology has been valued using a Relief from Royalty methodology.
Inventories The market approach has been used to determine fair value based on the net realisable value of the inventory less costs to sell and a reasonable profit margin.
The consideration for the acquisitions has been allocated against identified net assets with the remaining balance recorded as goodwill.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition reflects both the capabilities of the acquired entities personnel and the synergistic opportunities going forward, neither of which can be allocated to an identifiable intangible asset.
Contingent consideration of $22.3m for the Mondo transaction is made up of: a.
$9.4m relating to potential payouts that may be made under an earn-out mechanism dependant on EBITDA performance for the years 2018-2020 exceeding certain thresholds.
The potential undiscounted amount payable under the agreement is between $0.0m and $53.0m.
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of $9.4m was estimated by calculating the present value of the future expected cash flows based on a weighted probability analysis of a range of payments to give an estimate of the final obligation.
b. a further $12.9m that may be payable subject to the successful conclusion of an historic, pre-acquisition interest deduction dispute with the Finnish Tax authorities.
There were a number of one-off costs associated with the acquisition of Mondo Minerals primarily the write off of the set-up costs of the previous financing syndicate, now replaced by a new facility, bank and lawyers fees, retention bonuses for Mondo employees, that have not been capitalised in accordance with IFRS 3.
However, these have been reflected as adjusting items within Note 5 and recognised in administrative expenses and operating cash.
Acquisitions made during 2018 contributed $21.5m to the Groups revenue and $3.9m to the operating profit.
The estimated contribution of Mondo Minerals to the results of the Group, had the acquisition been made on 1 January 2018, and assuming that the fair value adjustments that arose on acquisition would have been the same at the earlier date, are as follows: 2018 $m Revenue 158.4 Operating profit 24.6 Cashflow relating to acquisitions in 2017 is wholly attributable to the acquisition of SummitReheis, further detail can be found in the 2017 annual report.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS ASSETS HELD FOR SALE On 28 February the Group disposed of Elementis Specialties Netherlands BV, which carried out all of the Groups Surfactants operations.
The disposal generated cash flow for the expansion of the Groups other businesses.
The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement on the line Profit from discontinued operations, were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Revenue 4.8 47.8 Expenses 15.2 42.0 Profit before tax 10.4 5.8 Attributable tax expense 2.0 0.9 Net profit attributable to discontinued operations attributable to owners of the Company 8.4 4.9 Revenue includes $nil related to inter-segment sales in 2018 2017: $0.2m.
154 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION During the year, Elementis Specialties Netherlands BV contributed $1.1m 2017: $7.2m to the Groups net operating cash flows and paid $0.6m 2017: $2.6m in respect of investing activities.
The Group recognised a total loss on current year disposal of: Year ended 31 December 2018 $m Consideration received 47.9 Net assets disposed of 42.0 Disposal costs 2.2 Recycling of deferred foreign exchange gains 4.2 Loss on disposal 0.5 Details of assets and liabilities at the date of disposal are provided in the following table: Year ended 2018 $m Goodwill 3.2 Intangible assets 2.4 Property, plant and equipment 38.0 Inventories 8.6 Trade and other receivables 11.1 Cash and bank balances 2.8 Total assets classified as held for sale 66.1 Trade and other payables 20.3 Pensions 0.4 Tax liabilities 3.4 Bank overdrafts and loans Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 24.1 Net assets of disposal group 42.0 2017 Assets Held for Sale In the 2017 Annual Report, we disclosed that the Group intended to dispose of Elementis Specialties Netherlands BV and that the disposal process was sufficiently advanced for the business to be classified as a disposal group held for sale.
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale were as follows: Year ended 2017 $m Goodwill 3.1 Intangible assets 2.3 Property, plant and equipment 36.9 Inventories 6.8 Trade and other receivables 9.1 Cash and bank balances Total assets classified as held for sale 58.2 Trade and other payables 18.2 Tax liabilities 4.7 Bank overdrafts and loans Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 22.9 Net assets of disposal group 35.3 155 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
