SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Goodwill and intangible assets Equiniti Group plc the Company is a public limited company which is Goodwill listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents in the United Kingdom.
The Company and its subsidiaries collectively, the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonthe Group provide complex administration and payment services, controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value supported by technology platforms, to a wide range of organisations.
of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the The registered office of the company is Sutherland House, Russell identifiable net assets acquired.
If the total of consideration transferred, Way, Crawley, West Sussex, RH10 1UH.
The Group financial statements non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries.
measured at fair value is less than the fair value of the net assets of the 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business Basis of preparation combination is allocated to each of the cash generating units CGU The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies unit to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management otherwise stated in note 2.2. purposes.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
the European Union EU, IFRS Interpretation Committee IFRS IC The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill is compared to interpretations as adopted by the EU and the Companies Act 2006 the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial value less costs of disposal.
Any impairment is recognised immediately statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and under as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial Software assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Groups presentational currency is the Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes British Pound.
are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs directly attributable to the design, development and testing of identifiable and Previously the Group disclosed a share-based payment reserve as a unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as separate component of equity.
However this has now been combined intangible assets when the following criteria are met: with retained earnings.
The combination has no impact on distributable reserves.
it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use: Basis of consolidation management intends to complete the software product and use or Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which sell it: the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is there is an ability to use or sell the software product: exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power probable future economic benefits: over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the date that control ceases.
development and to use or sell the software product are available: and the expenditure attributable to the software product during its The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the development can be reliably measured.
acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued The Group capitalises certain costs as software development if it and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable can demonstrate that the costs are directly attributable to software assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a development.
These costs include employee benefit expenses, along business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the with an appropriate portion of relevant overheads, and external acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in consultancy costs.
Other development related costs that are not directly the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or attributable or do not meet the capitalisation criteria are recognised as at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously recognised as an amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Going concern Capitalised software also includes purchased licences, when the expenditure satisfies the recognition criteria in IAS 38 Intangible Assets The Group meets its day-to-day working capital and financing IAS 38.
These items are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight requirements through its cash generated from operations and its bank line basis over their useful economic life or the term of the contract.
The Directors, after making enquiries and on the basis of current financial projections and the facilities available at the reporting date, Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis believe that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue over the estimated useful lives of the software, from the date they are in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the historical financial Software 3 5 years.
139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Financial instruments CONTINUED A financial asset or financial liability is only recognised in the statement Other intangible assets of financial position when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Other intangible assets consist of intangible assets identified as part of a business combination.
They are stated at fair value at the date of Classification and measurement acquisition less subsequent accumulated amortisation and impairment The Group classifies its financial assets in the following measurement losses.
categories: Customer relationships are valued based on the net present value of the At fair value through profit or loss excess earnings generated by the revenue streams over their estimated At fair value through other comprehensive income useful lives.
Order books are valued based on expected revenue generation.
Brand valuation is based on net present value of estimated At amortised cost royalty returns.
The classification depends on the business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows and Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income on management will determine the classification on initial recognition.
a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transactions costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of Other intangible assets 1 20 years the financial asset.
Transaction costs of financial assets held at fair value Property, plant and equipment through profit or loss are recognised within the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and contract depreciation and impairment losses.
For items acquired as part of a fulfilment assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows, business combination, cost comprises the deemed fair value of those where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and items at the date of acquisition.
Depreciation on those items is charged interest, are measured at amortised cost, less provisions for impairment.
over their estimated remaining useful lives from that date.
Other financial assets includes derivatives which are recognised at fair value through profit or loss, unless the derivatives qualify for hedge Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards accounting, in which case the recognition of any gain or loss of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
Where is recognised in other comprehensive income.
land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings.
Leased The Group classifies its financial liabilities in the following assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal measurement categories: to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum At fair value through profit or loss lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Lease payments are accounted for as described At amortised cost below.
The Group classifies debt and equity instruments as either financial liabilities or as equity, in accordance with the substance of the contractual Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis arrangement.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant residual interest in the assets of the Group, after deducting all of its and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recognised at Freehold improvements 50 years the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Leasehold improvements 2 50 years Under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 32, financial Office equipment 2 10 years instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent Fixtures and fittings 3 20 years that they meet the following two conditions: Impairment of non-financial assets a they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill or financial liabilities with another party, under conditions that are intangible assets not ready for use, are not subject to amortisation potentially unfavourable to the Group: and and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Groups own circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets obligation to deliver a variable number of the Groups own equity carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Groups amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at fixed number of its own equity instruments.
the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are CGU.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill, that have suffered classified as a financial liability.
Financial liabilities not classified as an impairment are reviewed for possible impairment reversal at each fair value through profit or loss, such as derivatives, are classified and reporting date.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
140 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Contract fulfilment assets CONTINUED When services or software are supplied to a customer before payment is Derecognition due, a contract fulfilment asset is recognised in the statement of financial position, and represents the right to receive consideration from the The Group derecognises a financial asset when the rights to receive cash customer for goods or services delivered.
The asset is measured as flows from the financial asset expire or have been transferred, and the the fair value of the goods or services supplied.
The Groups contracts Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
with customers often include a payment schedule which determine The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual when invoices are raised, and settlement is received, during the obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The incremental costs of obtaining or fulfilling a contract with a customer are recognised as an asset only if the Group expects to recover them.
Derivative financial instruments Costs to obtain or fulfil a contract are included in the statement of The Groups derivatives, which include interest rate swaps and forward financial position within contract fulfilment assets.
These assets are currency contracts, are measured at fair value, being the estimated subsequently charged to administrative costs within the income amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the instrument statement over the expected contract period using a systematic at the reporting date.
Third party valuations are used to fair value the basis that mirrors the pattern in which the Group transfers control Groups derivatives.
The valuation techniques use inputs such as interest of the products or service to the customer.
rate yield curves and currency prices yields, volatilities of underlying Contract fulfilment assets also include costs incurred to date and instruments and correlations between inputs.
anticipated costs to complete and are continually monitored through The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current a monthly review process.
If it becomes apparent that contractual costs asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is will exceed contract revenue, then the loss is recognised immediately more than 12 months, and a current asset or liability when the as an expense in the income statement.
remaining maturity is less than 12 months.
Agency broker balances Cash flow hedges Where the Group acts as an agency broker for retail investors, balances The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that owed by or to the retail investor and the market maker are recognised are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other within other receivables and other payables when the transaction occurs.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective When the amounts are settled, these balances are eliminated.
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position and the rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement.
When a hedging statement of cash flows, where the Group has a legally enforceable right instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the to offset and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity until the hedged item occurs.
External loans and borrowings Net investment hedges Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestGains or losses on a hedging instrument relating to the effective portion bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost, with any difference of a hedge of a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income income.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest within finance costs.
Gains or losses accumulated in equity are reclassified basis.
On borrowings extinguished, any difference between the cash paid to the income statement if the foreign operation is sold.
and the carrying value is recognised in the income statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provisions for impairment.
Provisions for impairment are recognised using the simplified approach as set out in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 and consequently loss allowances are measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit loss.
The expected credit loss model applies a percentage, based on an assessment of historical default rates and certain forward-looking information, against receivables that are grouped into certain age brackets.
Where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect any amounts due according to the original terms of the agreement with the customer, the receivable is fully impaired and the loss is recognised within administrative costs in the income statement.
141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Equity settled share-based payment transactions CONTINUED The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share based Trade payables compensation plans, under which the Group receives services from employees in return for equity instruments options of the Group.
The Trade payables represent liabilities for goods and services received fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of by the Group before the end of the reporting period which have the options is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
been invoiced but are unpaid.
The amounts within trade payables are The initial amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the unsecured.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and fair value of the options granted: subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
including any market performance conditions for example, total shareholder return : Contract fulfilment liabilities excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance Contract fulfilment liabilities are recorded when the Group has received vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets consideration from customers, but still has an obligation to deliver and remaining an employee over a specified period of time : and services or licences to the customer and meet performance obligations for that consideration.
The liability is measured as the fair value of the including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the consideration received.
requirement for employees to save or hold shares for a specific period of time.
Employee benefits At the end of each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the Defined contribution plans number of options that are expected to vest, based on the service and A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group non-market vesting conditions.
The impact of revisions to the original pays fixed contributions to a separately administered fund.
The Group estimates, if any, are recognised in the income statement with has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense in Provisions the income statement as incurred.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset, to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in future A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the payments is available.
Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be Defined benefit plans required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected, risk adjusted, future cash flows A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than at a pre-tax risk-free rate.
The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated by estimating the amount of Dilapidations provisions relate to the estimated cost to revert leased future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in premises back to a required condition expected under the terms of the the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine lease.
These include provisions for wear and tear, along with provisions its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets at bid price are for leasehold improvements made that would require reinstatement back deducted.
The liability discount rate is the yield at the statement of to the original status on exit.
These are uncertain in timing, as leases may financial position date on AA credit-rated bonds denominated in the be terminated early or extended.
To the extent that exits of premises are currency of, and having maturity dates approximating to the terms of the expected within 12 months of the reporting period, the division shown Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary as current.
using the projected unit credit method.
Contingent consideration is provided for on the acquisition of a business, When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised where the monetary amount is dependent on the future performance asset is limited to the present value of benefits available in the form of of the acquired business.
A provision is initially recognised as the any future refunds from the plan, reductions in future contributions to discounted expected liability and unwound over the period to the legal the plan or on settlement of the plan and takes into account the adverse date of settlement.
The liability is reviewed regularly.
The subsequent fair effect of any minimum funding requirements.
value is determined by reviewing the post-acquisition performance of the acquired company, along with available budgets and forecasts, against Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and the earn-out arrangement in the share purchase agreement to determine changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in the most likely outcome.
other comprehensive income, in the period in which they arise.
Changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration resulting Current service costs reflect the increase in the defined benefit obligation from additional information obtained post acquisition about facts and resulting from employee services in the current year, benefit curtailments circumstances that existed at the acquisition date are recognised as an and settlements.
Payments are recognised as employee benefit expense adjustment against goodwill during the first twelve months following the in the income statement.
Any other changes are recognised in the income statement.
Past-service costs, which arise as a result of current changes to plan arrangements affecting the obligation for prior periods, are recognised immediately as an employee benefit expense, within administrative costs, in the income statement.
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets.
The net cost is included within finance costs in the income statement.
142 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Group seeks to maximise these returns by holding funds in high CONTINUED interest-bearing accounts, where possible.
However this revenue is not generated from the Groups principal activities which is why Share capital this is disclosed separately.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Out-of-pocket expenses recharged to customers are recognised in attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity revenue when they are recoverable from the client, net of the related as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Group acquires its own ordinary shares, the consideration Revenue recognition paid is recorded as a deduction from equity within the reserve for own Revenue is recognised when, or as, the Group satisfies contractual shares.
performance obligations by transferring promised goods or services to Foreign currency translation its customers.
Goods and services are considered to be transferred when the customer obtains control of the good or service.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Revenue is recognised either at a point in time when the performance Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of obligation in the contract has been performed or over time as control of such transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities the performance obligation is transferred to the customer.
denominated in foreign currencies using exchange rates at the end of the The Groups principal revenue recognition policies are as follows: reporting period are recognised in the income statement.
Professional services The results and financial position of all Group entities having a different functional currency from the Groups presentational currency are The Group is one of the largest providers of outsourced professional translated into the presentational currency as follows: services in the UK, covering pensions administration, pensions payroll, annuity services, complaints handling, resourcing services, employee assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate on the date of share plan administration and share registration services.
the statement of financial position: income and expenses for each income statement are translated Revenue from fixed-price contracts, which may span a number of years, at average exchange rates: and is recognised rateably over the expected life of the contract, where the all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other Group satisfies the over time revenue recognition criteria.
When the over comprehensive income and recorded within the translation reserve.
time criteria are not satisfied, the Group recognises revenue at a point in time when the contractual performance obligations are delivered.
Where Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a the Group provides staff to customers at hourly or daily rates, revenue is foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity recognised on the basis of time worked.
and translated at the closing exchange rate.
Exchange differences arising from retranslation at the closing rate are recognised in other Many of the Groups contracts contain multiple deliverables to the comprehensive income within the translation reserve.
Management evaluate whether those promised goods and services are distinct, which require them to be accounted for as separate Revenue performance obligations.
If the goods and services are not distinct, Revenue, which excludes sales taxes, represents the value of services they are combined with other goods or services until a performance provided and software supplied to customers in the UK, Europe and the obligation can be identified in the contract that is distinct.
If a series of US, and also includes interest received on funds under administration of distinct goods and services are substantially the same and have the same the Group.
pattern of transfer to the customer, the deliverables may be combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Revenue classified as rendering of goods and services represents amounts due to the Group as compensation for services performed or Software sales, hosting and support services goods delivered under contract.
Revenue included within rendering of Software sales, hosting and support services is provided by the Pensions services includes revenue generated from the majority of the professional Solutions and Intelligent Solutions businesses for software such as services which the Group offers to its customers.
It does not include Compendia, Charter and KYC.
Revenue for hardware and software any additional revenue generated from, for example, client funds under licences is recognised at a point in time when the goods and licences are administration, which are disclosed separately to reflect the incidental delivered to the customer, as this results in the customer having the right nature of this revenue.
to use the licence and the performance obligation is delivered in full.
The arrangements used to pay for goods and services rendered can Revenue for hosting and support services are recognised rateably over vary between different clients.
Many contracts are structured so that any the term of the agreement.
fees are invoiced to the client either before, during or after performing When products are bundled together for the purpose of sale, the the contractual obligations.
However some contracts are structured to associated revenue, net of all applicable discounts, is allocated between allow the Group to retain any interest income received from processing the constituent performance obligations on a relative fair value basis.
The the clients funds, instead of an invoiced fee.
Such interest income is Group has a systematic basis for allocating relative fair values in these specifically mentioned as the fee for performing contractual tasks and situations, based upon published list prices.
Given that it is not incidental to the underlying goods and services delivered, such revenue received is classified as revenue generated from the rendering of goods and services.
The Group distinguishes between revenue generated from the rendering of goods and services and revenue representing interest received on client monies held and administered by the Group that are incidental to services delivered.
This income is considered to be ancillary to the underlying fee paid services delivered to the Groups customers.
Interest income received is an important source of the Groups revenue and the 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Costs to date and costs to complete for each project are continually CONTINUED monitored for each project through a monthly review process.
If it becomes apparent that contract costs will exceed contract revenue, Transactional revenue then the loss is recognised immediately as an expense in the income statement.
Transactional revenue is earned in the Investment Solutions and EQ US businesses representing commission earned on the purchase and sale of The following table illustrates revenue recognition policies predominantly shares and on foreign exchange transactions.
used in each reporting segment: Revenue is recognised at a point in time when the performance or Professional  and Transactional Intermediary processing of the related transactions takes place.
Segment services expenses support fees income Further considerations in relation to long-term contracts Investment solutions Where delivery of the services described above spans more than one Intelligent accounting period, revenue is either recognised over time or at a point solutions in time.
Where the over time criteria in IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts Pensions with Customers IFRS 15 are satisfied, the Group recognises revenue solutions using the percentage of completion method.
This generally occurs EQ US within the Investment Solutions division for the supply of corporate Interest actions and within the Intelligent Solutions division for software solutions.
These services typically take less than one year to perform but, when the Costs arising prior to the Group being awarded a contract, or achieving service falls into two or more accounting periods, there is management preferred bidder status, and mobilisation costs are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
judgement around how much revenue to recognise in each period.
Where provided for under the terms of the contract, the stage of Once the Group is awarded a contract, the incremental costs of obtaining completion is measured by reference to the contract costs incurred up to or fulfilling the contract are recognised as an asset only if the Group the end of the reporting period, as a percentage of the total estimated expects to recover them.
These assets are subsequently charged to the cost for the contract.
Total costs incurred under contracts in progress, income statement over the expected contract period using a systematic net of amounts transferred to the income statement, are stated less basis that mirrors the pattern in which the Group recognises the foreseeable losses and payments on account.
Where the over time contracted revenue.
criteria are not satisfied, and the contract allows, revenue is recognised Revenue recognised for goods and services, but not yet billed, is when the performance obligations are delivered to the customer, which reflected in the statement of financial position within contract fulfilment may not be until the end of the contractual period.
There can be a significant period of time between revenue In determining how much revenue to recognise, management is recognition and invoicing where revenue is recognised at a point in required to make an assessment of the expected costs to complete the time but invoices are raised over time.
This is evident when we deliver contract.
Forecasting contract costs involves judgements around the term licences where the performance obligation is fulfilled on delivery number of hours to complete a task, cost savings to be achieved over of the licence but billing occurs throughout the contract term.
Revenue is only recognised when supported by a written client contract and time, anticipated profitability of the contract, as well as contract-specific recoverability is expected in line with the supporting contract.
Where a contract is anticipated to make a loss, these billed in advance of work being performed are deferred in the statement judgements are also relevant in determining whether or not an onerous of financial position as deferred income.
contract provision is required and how this is to be measured.
Operating segments Contract revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration receivable.
The fair value of consideration might vary due to variations in Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the a contract.
A variation is only included revenue when it is probable that internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
the customer will approve the variation and that the amount of revenue The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating can be reliably measured.
An increase in scope of a contract will increase resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has both the total anticipated revenue and costs to complete the contract.
been identified as the Board of Directors.
Government grants Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement in the same periods in which the expenses are recognised.
Grants relating to operating expenditure are recognised in the income statement as they are earned.
Grants relating to intangible assets are netted against the related expenditure, prior to capitalisation, and amortised over the useful life of the asset.
Operating lease payments Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
144 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES A new expected credit loss model which permits a simplified approach CONTINUED for the Groups impairment of trade receivables and contract fulfilment assets, has been applied from 1 January 2018.
This model applies a credit Net finance costs risk percentage based on historical risk of default against receivables that are grouped into certain age brackets.
Using the receivables balance as Net finance costs comprise interest payable, interest receivable on own at 31 December 2017, we have assessed the payment profile and level funds, foreign exchange gains and losses and the interest cost of defined of bad debts experienced in the 12 months from this date and have pension scheme liabilities, net of the expected return on plan assets.
established the credit risk percentages as follows: Interest income and interest payable is recognised in the income Not past due 0.2% statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Past due 130 days 0.1% Taxation Past due 3160 days 0.1% Tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is Past due 6190 days 0.6% recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Past due 90 days 4.7% The Groups trade receivables and contract fulfilment assets share similar Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the risk characteristics by nature.
Therefore we have chosen to apply the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of same default percentage on all outstanding receivables.
The Group has financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of a low credit risk on its trade receivables and contract assets as a high previous years.
proportion of revenue is derived from large customers listed on the Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying major international stock exchanges and historical defaults have been amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and infrequent and small.
As a result, the impact of applying IFRS 9 on the the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary 2017 results was not material.
differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the Impact of adoption IFRS 15 initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences IFRS 15 became effective from 1 January 2018 and the Group has relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will adopted the standard on a fully retrospective basis.
The year ended probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred 31 December 2018 is the first year reported under IFRS 15 and the 2017 tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or comparatives have been restated to reflect the changes in the timing of settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax revenue and cost recognition.
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial IFRS 15 will not impact the lifetime revenues, profitability or the cash position date.
flows of contracts and does not affect the majority of the Groups 2.2 NEW STANDARDS AND AMENDMENTS ADOPTED revenue streams.
The main changes from the adoption of IFRS 15 are on the timing of revenue recognition on the sale of software licences and The Group has applied the following standards for the first time for transition work on multi-period contracts, in particular: reporting periods commencing 1 January 2018: Revenue recognised from fixed-term right to use software licences will IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 be recognised at a point in time, rather than over the licence term, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 when there are no further performance obligations required to be The Group has changed certain accounting policies in adopting of IFRS delivered.
This leads to earlier recognition of income on these sales.
The adoption of IFRS 15 has required In some multi-period pension administration contracts, there is a changes in accounting policies, as well as restatement of prior year transition phase where significant costs are incurred in transitioning results and financial position.
A number of other amendments adopted customers from a previous supplier to the Group.
Under previous from 1 January 2018 did not materially impact the amounts recognised accounting, revenue would be recognised in line with the cost and in the current or prior year and are not expected to significantly affect effort to provide these transitional services.
Under IFRS 15, transition future periods.
activities are not a separate performance obligation, and therefore any Impact of adoption IFRS 9 associated revenues are recognised over the life of the contract.
This leads to later recognition of revenue for transition work completed.
IFRS 9 addresses the recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities and was adopted on 1 January The Groups statement of financial position now includes: 2018.
Management has assessed the new requirements for financial Contract fulfilment assets representing the fair value of services assets and there were no changes to the Groups assets previously and licences provided but not yet invoiced, and costs capitalised classified as held at amortised cost under IAS 39.
The Groups derivatives from obtaining, and fulfilling, the contract designated as cash flow hedges continue to be recognised at fair value through other comprehensive income under IFRS 9.
Contract fulfilment liabilities representing deferred income which is higher as a result of delayed revenue recognition.
Details of the restatements to the comparative year ended 31 December 2017 are set out in note 9.7.
The adoption of IFRS 15 did not have a material impact on the Groups reported results.
145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.3 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED The total cash outflow for lease payments will not change under IFRS 16, but certain lease payments currently treated as cash flows from operating The following new standards is effective for annual periods beginning activities will be presented as cash flows from financing activities.
This will after 1 January 2019 and has not yet been adopted by the Group.
decrease cash outflows from operating activities and an increase cash outflows from financing activities.
IFRS 16 Leases The Group also anticipates that certain key performance indicators IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and is effective for annual reporting will be impacted, such as underlying EBITDA margin, operating cash periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group will apply IFRS flow conversion and leverage.
EBITDA is a key input to each of these 16 on 1 January 2019 and it is expected to have a material impact on the measures and will increase as a result of IFRS 16, as the Group no longer financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019. recognises a rental expense and the depreciation and interest expenses IFRS 16 replaces the current leasing standard, IAS 17 Leases, and details are outside of this measure.
the requirements for the classification, measurement and recognition of There are no other new IFRSs or IFRS IC interpretations not yet adopted lease arrangements.
IFRS 16 ends the distinction between finance leases which would be expected to have a material impact on the financial and operating leases that was characteristic of IAS 17.
Instead, IFRS 16 statements of the Group.
requires the majority of leases to be recognised on the statement of financial position.
2.4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Assets that are deemed to be of low value are outside the scope of IFRS The Group makes estimates and judgements concerning the future, the 16.
The Group defines low value assets as items that would have a value results of which may affect the carrying values of assets and liabilities at of 5,000 or less when new.
Similarly, leases with a term of 12 months or the year end, as well as the revenue and costs reported for the period.
less are also outside the scope of IFRS 16.
There will be no changes to Estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on the Groups accounting for low value or short term leases.
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group will transition to IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach.
Under this approach the lease liability will be measured as The accounting estimates that have a significant risk of causing a material the present value of the minimum lease payments that are unpaid on adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities within the next 1 January 2019.
However the right of use asset will be measured at financial year are described below.
depreciated cost, as though IFRS 16 had been applied from the lease Accounting estimates commencement date.
Pension assumptions The cumulative effect of adopting IFRS 16 will be recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on 1 January The present value of the net defined benefit pension obligation is 2019.
The Group is not permitted to restate its comparative financial dependant on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial statements under the modified retrospective approach.
basis, using a number of assumptions.
These assumptions, which are set out in note 9.3, include salary rate increases, interest rates, inflation rates, Since IFRS 16 was issued, the Group has been working to identify discount rates and mortality rates.
Any changes in these assumptions the leases that will be impacted by the new standard.
The Group has will impact the carrying value of the pension obligation and a sensitivity identified its leased properties as the main leases that will be impacted.
analysis has been disclosed in note 9.3.
The Group also has leases for IT equipment.
These leases were The discount rate used for calculating the present value of future pension designated as finance leases under IAS 17 and, using the practical liability cash flows is based on interest rates of high-quality corporate expedient in IFRS 16, the value of the right-of-use asset and lease liability bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the on transition will be equal to the carrying amount of the leased asset and related pension obligation.
As at 31 December 2018, the carrying value of financed leased assets was 1.1m and the carrying value of finance Contingent consideration lease liabilities was 1.1m.
When the Group makes an acquisition, consideration for the business On 1 January 2019, the Group will recognise right-of-use assets in can take the form of cash, deferred consideration and contingent property, plant and equipment in the statement of financial position of consideration.
The contingent consideration payable is based on post- 36.2m relating to leased properties.
Lease liabilities for future lease acquisition targets of the acquired business.
Deferred consideration is payments of 42.7m will also be recognised in the statement of financial not based on post-acquisition targets and is generally only dependant position in other financial liabilities.
Therefore the Group estimates a on the passage of time before payment is made to the seller.
6.5m reduction in net assets when the new standard is adopted on 1 January 2019.
The criteria that must be met in order for a payment of contingent consideration to be made can vary amongst the Groups acquisitions.
The operating lease rental expense for 2018 is 8.7m and has been These can include revenue and EBITDA targets for the acquired business charged to administrative costs in the income statement.
However in or of the business unit that the acquired business is joining.
Provisions 2019 the majority of these expenses will be replaced by a depreciation for contingent consideration are initially recognised at fair value.
These expense of 5.6m, which is recognised separately from administrative estimates are updated at each reporting date by comparing the latest costs in the income statement.
There will also be interest charged on performance, budgets and forecasts of the acquired business to the the lease liabilities of 1.3m that is recognised within finance costs.
The earn-out arrangement in the share purchase agreement.
Group expects that IFRS 16 will have a marginal impact on profit before income tax in 2019.
146 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies CONTINUED Revenue on multiple element contracts Budgets and forecasts require managements best estimate of the future Where contracts have multiple components, such as the delivery of performance of the acquired business and on other key inputs, such as software and implementation and support services to be undertaken growth rates and profitability.
The fair value of contingent consideration over the course of the contract, there is judgement in determining at 31 December 2018 was 19.7m 2017: 21.2m.
If forecast profits for whether the various components are separable performance obligations.
each acquired business during the earn out period was 10% lower than If the performance obligations are separable, the contractual revenues forecast this would lead to a 2.5m reduction in the provision required.
need to be applied to the fair value of the individual components.
If forecast profits for each acquired business during the earn out period was 10% higher than forecast this would lead to an immaterial increase in This impacts the revenue profile of contacts.
Revenue from the delivery the provision required.
of a perpetual licence, as a separate performance obligation, is recognised at a point in time.
Whereas revenue for implementation and Valuation of acquired intangible assets support services is recognised over time, rateably, in line with the Groups When a business combination occurs, in accordance with IFRS 3, performance throughout the term of the agreement.
management needs to determine the fair value of net assets acquired.
Software development This includes assets, such as customer-related intangibles, that are not recognised in the books of the acquired business.
Therefore The Group capitalises certain staff costs as an internally generated management needs to calculate the fair value of intangible assets arising intangible asset, where, in managements judgement, it can be on acquisition.
This is based on two key assumptions: the discount rate determined that the Group has the ability to develop the assets and the and the long-term growth rate.
Management also exercises judgement to determine whether the project will be completed and that the asset will The fair value of customer-related intangibles related to the acquisition generate future economic benefits that outweighs its cost.
If the discount rate used was one percentage point higher, the value of the asset would be 5.3m lower.
If the discount During the year ended 31 December 2018 the Group capitalised 16.2m rate used was one percentage point lower, the value of the asset would of staff costs 2017: 15.5m.
If, in managements judgement, it cannot be be 5.8m higher.
A one percentage point increase in the forecast longdetermined that the recognition criteria will be satisfied, the costs of the term growth rate would increase the value of the asset by 3.2m and a project are expensed to the income statement.
one percentage point decrease would reduce the value by 3.0m.
147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 3.
OPERATING PROFIT 3.1 REVENUE 2018 2017 1 Restated Revenue from continuing operations: m m Rendering of goods and services 509.7 396.2 Interest income 21.2 10.1 Total revenue 530.9 406.3 1 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 15 see note 1 for details See note 3.3 for further analysis of the Groups revenue.
3.2 ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS 2018 2017 1 Restated Expenses by nature: m m Employee benefit expense note 3.4 219.8 174.6 Employee costs capitalised in respect of software development 16.2 15.5 Direct costs 101.2 75.8 Bought-in services 38.6 18.1 Premises costs 7.9 7.2 Operating lease costs 8.7 6.6 Government grants for research and development 0.5 1.6 Other general business costs 69.9 53.4 Total administrative costs 429.4 318.6 1 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 15 see note 1 for details 3.3 OPERATING SEGMENTS In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8, an operating segment is defined as a business activity whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker CODM and for which discrete information is available.
The Groups CODM is the Board of Directors.
The Groups operating segments have been identified as Investment Solutions, Intelligent Solutions, Pension Solutions, EQ US and Interest, in line with how the Group runs and structures its business.
Revenue, EBITDA and underlying EBITDA are key measures of the Groups performance.
EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The EBITDA of each segment is reported after charging relevant corporate costs based on the business segments usage of corporate facilities and services.
Underlying EBITDA is adjusted for one-off items which obscure the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group and its respective divisions.
These items primarily represent material restructuring, integration and transformational acquisition related expenses.
Total Intersegment Reported revenue revenue m m m Year ended 31 December 2018 Investment Solutions 145.0 2.5 142.5 Intelligent Solutions 180.8 14.9 165.9 Pension Solutions 138.5 9.5 129.0 Interest 12.1 12.1 UK and Europe 476.4 26.9 449.5 EQ US 81.4 81.4 USA 81.4 81.4 Total revenue 557.8 26.9 530.9 Included within USA is 9.1m of interest revenue which is reported and managed within the EQ US results.
148 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 3.3 OPERATING SEGMENTS CONTINUED Total Reported revenue Intersegment revenue 1 Year ended 31 December 2017 restated m m m Investment Solutions 135.1 2.8 132.3 Intelligent Solutions 139.4 15.0 124.4 Pension Solutions 150.0 10.5 139.5 Interest 10.1 10.1 Total revenue 434.6 28.3 406.3 1 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 15 see note 1 for details 2018 2017 Reported revenue by geographical market m m UK and Europe 449.5 406.3 USA 81.4 Total revenue 530.9 406.3 2018 2017 Timing of revenue recognition m m Point in time 114.2 72.6 Over time 416.7 333.7 Total revenue 530.9 406.3 Point in time revenue primarily relates to our share and foreign exchange dealing revenue streams where the performance obligation is fulfilled when the transaction completes, plus corporate action fees where these can be dependent on transactions closing.
It also includes revenue from right to use licences where revenue is recognised once client delivery and acceptance conditions are met.
Over time revenue primarily relates to our share registration businesses, including corporate actions, where the Group has a legal right to revenue for work performed, our pensions administration business, our customer remediation business and software support services.
Unfulfilled performance obligations The table below shows the aggregate amount of the Groups contracted revenue as at 31 December 2018 allocated to the contractual performance obligations that are unsatisfied or partially satisfied.
The Group anticipates recognising this revenue as, or when, the contractual performance obligations are satisfied is as follows: Investment Intelligent Pension Solutions Solutions Solutions EQ US Total m m m m m Less than one year 37.0 12.7 27.0 14.7 91.4 Between one and five years 123.9 25.2 54.3 4.6 208.0 More than five years 19.2 10.0 29.2 180.1 37.9 91.3 19.3 328.6 The table above represents the contractual consideration which the Group will be entitled to receive from customers.
The total revenue that will be earned by the Group will also include transactional revenue, new wins, scope changes and contract extensions.
However these elements have been excluded from the figures above as they are not contracted and the revenue will be earned as the work is performed.
Many of the Groups contracts renew automatically until cancelled by the either party.
At 31 December 2018, these contracts represented a significant proportion of the Groups contractual revenues.
However these contracts have not been included in the analysis above as the Group typically has a contractual right to revenue for a period of 12 months or less.
In addition, the Group has taken the practical expedients under IFRS 15 and has excluded the following revenue: contracts with a life of less than one year, revenue that is earned and invoiced as the work is performed.
149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 3.3 OPERATING SEGMENTS CONTINUED 2018 2017 1 Restated Underlying EBITDA m m Investment Solutions 47.3 43.5 Intelligent Solutions 39.8 32.7 Pension Solutions 19.7 24.6 Interest 12.1 10.1 UK and Europe 118.9 110.9 EQ US 19.2 USA 19.2 Total segments 138.1 110.9 Central costs 15.8 12.7 Total underlying EBITDA 122.3 98.2 1 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 15 - see note 1 for details Central costs principally include corporate overheads which cannot be allocated to a specific segment or segments.
2018 2017 Depreciation and amortisation m m Investment Solutions 23.6 21.5 Intelligent Solutions 12.0 10.8 Pension Solutions 9.1 8.5 EQ US 5.7 Total segments 50.4 40.8 Central costs 11.2 9.9 Total 61.6 50.7 2018 2017 1 Restated Reconciliation of underlying EBITDA to profit before tax m m Underlying EBITDA 122.3 98.2 Non-operating charges 20.8 10.5 Depreciation and amortisation 61.6 50.7 Net finance costs 15.3 11.7 Profit before tax 24.6 25.3 1 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 15 - see note 1 for details Assets and liabilities per segment are not items which are reviewed by the Board of Directors and is therefore not disclosed within the segmental reporting.
However, capital expenditure is a key measure and is disclosed below.
Capital expenditure consists of additions to property, plant, equipment and software.
2018 2017 Capital expenditure m m Investment Solutions 6.9 12.3 Intelligent Solutions 6.4 6.8 Pension Solutions 4.1 8.3 EQ US 21.0 Total segments 38.4 27.4 Central 7.6 5.1 Total 46.0 32.5 150 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 3.4 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year was as follows: 2018 2017 Number of employees by function: Number Number Operations 4,371 4,036 Support functions 567 429 Sales and marketing 197 113 Total employees 5,135 4,578 2018 2017 Number of employees by operating segment: Number Number Investment Solutions 1,234 1,150 Intelligent Solutions 716 631 Pensions Solutions 1,446 1,553 EQ US 416 Central 1,323 1,244 Total employees 5,135 4,578 2018 2017 Number of employees by geography: Number Number UK 3,799 3,754 Rest of Europe 83 50 Asia 837 774 North America 416 Total employees 5,135 4,578 The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 186.8 147.5 Social security costs 17.6 16.0 Other pension costs 9.0 7.6 Share-based payment expense note 7.2 6.4 3.5 Total employee benefit expense 219.8 174.6 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 4 INVESTMENTS 4.1 ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES EQ US On 1 February 2018, the Group completed on the acquisition of the Wells Fargo Shareowner Services EQ US business for a total cash consideration of $227.0m 159.6m, deferred consideration of $0.1m 0.1m settled in June, plus 9.8m in settlement of a deal contingent forward used to hedge the transaction consideration.
EQ US is a share registration business based in the United States.
The Group took control of the business on 1 February 2018.
On this date the business had net assets with a fair value of 111.6m.
The results of the business have been consolidated since the date of control and EQ US contributed 81.4m of revenue and 2.1m profit before income tax to the Groups results in 2018.
If the business had been acquired on 1 January 2018 it would have contributed an additional 6.1m of revenue to the Groups results in 2018.
The acquisition-related costs of acquiring and integrating EQ US into the Group amounted to 20.8m in the year and these have been reflected within the income statement.
The costs consisted of transaction costs of 6.1m, mainly relating to deal advisory and legal fees, and integration costs of 14.7m relating to programme delivery, the development of standalone functions and delivery of systems and processes to run the business.
These have been included in administrative costs in the income statement.
On acquisition, intangible assets relating to customer contracts and related relationships were identified, with a fair value of 102.0m.
These are being amortised over 20 years.
The value of goodwill reflects amounts in relation to the expected benefit of the ability to generate new streams of revenue and expected synergies of combining the operations of EQ US and the Group.
The amounts relating to the intangible assets and goodwill are provisional and subject to further evaluation and adjustment, in accordance with accounting standards.
Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed m Intangible assets 102.0 Deferred tax asset 0.2 Property, plant and equipment 1.4 Trade and other receivables 4.8 Contract fulfilment assets 4.6 Trade and other payables 0.5 Contract fulfilment liabilities 0.8 Provisions 0.1 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 111.6 Goodwill on acquisition 57.9 Total consideration and cash outflow in the period 169.5 Boudicca Proxy On 26 April 2018, the Group purchased the entire issued share capital of Boudicca Proxy Ltd Boudicca Proxy for 1.1m plus contingent consideration of up to 0.8m payable in 2019 and up to 1.5m payable in 2021.
Boudicca Proxy is a specialist shareholder engagement company providing expertise in the areas of progressive proxy solicitation, shareholder communications, corporate governance advisory, share ownership analysis and global equity intelligence.
The Group took control of Boudicca Proxy on 26 April 2018.
On this date the business had net assets of 1.1m.
The results of the business have been consolidated since the date of control and Boudicca Proxy contributed 1.4m of revenue and 0.2m profit before income tax to the Groups results in 2018.
If the business had been acquired on 1 January 2018 it would have contributed an additional 0.8m of revenue and 0.1m net profit to the Groups results in 2018.
The additional costs to the Group of acquiring Boudicca Proxy in the year, such as legal fees and stamp duty, amounted to 0.1m.
On acquisition, the fair value of the intangible assets relating to customer contracts and related relationships were re-evaluated, resulting in an upward adjustment of 1.0m to the fair value of the net assets acquired.
The value of goodwill reflects amounts in relation to the expected benefit of the ability to generate new streams of revenue and expected synergies of combining the operations of Boudicca Proxy and the Group.
152 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 4.1 ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES CONTINUED Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed m Intangible assets 1.0 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 Trade and other receivables 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 Trade and other payables 0.4 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.2 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 1.1 Goodwill on acquisition 2.2 Total consideration 3.3 Cash acquired 0.2 Contingent consideration discounted 2.2 Net cash outflow in the period 0.9 As at 31 December 2018, the minimum amount of contingent consideration payable was nil and the maximum amount was 2.3m.
The final amount to be paid will be determined based on the acquirees financial performance over the qualifying period and is only payable if the business grows in line with its business plan.
Aquila Group On 31 October 2018, the Group purchased the entire issued share capital of Aquila Group Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries Aquila Group for consideration of 5.5m.
Aquila Group provide software solutions for both the life assurance and the pensions markets.
The Group took control of Aquila Group on 31 October 2018.
On this date the business had net assets of 1.3m.
The results of the business have been consolidated since the date of control and Aquila Group contributed 1.2m of revenue and 0.1m loss before income tax to the Groups results in 2018.
If the business had been acquired on 1 January 2018 it would have contributed an additional 5.4m of revenue and 0.7m net loss to the Groups results in 2018.
The additional costs to the Group of acquiring Aquila Group in the year, such as legal fees and stamp duty, amounted to 0.3m.
On acquisition, the fair values of intangible assets relating to customer contracts and related relationships and software were re-evaluated, resulting in a combined upward adjustment of 1.3m to the fair value of the net assets acquired.
The value of goodwill reflects amounts in relation to the expected benefit of the ability to generate new streams of revenue and expected synergies of combining the operations of Aquila Group and the Group.
Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed m Intangible assets 1.4 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 Trade and other receivables 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents 2.3 Trade and other payables 1.2 Contract fulfilment liabilities 1.7 Provisions 0.2 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.2 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 1.3 Goodwill on acquisition 4.2 Total consideration 5.5 Cash acquired 2.3 Net cash outflow in the period 3.2 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 4.2 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Leasehold Freehold Office Fixtures & improvements improvements equipment fittings Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2017 10.8 29.4 5.2 45.4 Additions 1.1 5.4 0.1 6.6 Disposals 0.8 1.0 0.7 2.5 Reclassification 0.8 0.8 Balance at 31 December 2017 10.3 0.8 33.8 4.6 49.5 Balance at 1 January 2018 10.3 0.8 33.8 4.6 49.5 Acquisition of business 1.1 0.1 0.4 1.6 Additions 1.9 5.8 0.2 7.9 Disposals 0.3 1.4 0.3 2.0 Translation adjustment 0.2 0.2 0.4 Balance at 31 December 2018 13.2 0.8 38.5 4.9 57.4 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2017 5.5 18.9 3.9 28.3 Depreciation charge for the year 1.1 4.0 0.6 5.7 Disposals 0.8 1.0 0.7 2.5 Balance at 31 December 2017 5.8 21.9 3.8 31.5 Balance at 1 January 2018 5.8 21.9 3.8 31.5 Depreciation charge for the year 1.3 4.1 0.6 6.0 Disposals 0.3 1.4 0.3 2.0 Balance at 31 December 2018 6.8 24.6 4.1 35.5 Net book value Balance at 31 December 2017 4.5 0.8 11.9 0.8 18.0 Balance at 31 December 2018 6.4 0.8 13.9 0.8 21.9 Included within office equipment are assets held under finance leases with a cost of 2.8m as of 31 December 2018 2017: 2.6m.
These assets had a net book value as at 31 December 2018 of 1.1m 2017: 1.6m.
154 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 4.3 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquisitionrelated intangible Goodwill Software assets Total m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2017 443.1 219.6 323.7 986.4 Acquisition of business 11.0 2.1 2.9 16.0 Additions 25.9 25.9 Translation adjustment 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 Balance at 31 December 2017 453.8 247.8 326.8 1,028.4 Balance at 1 January 2018 453.8 247.8 326.8 1,028.4 Acquisition of business 64.3 0.4 104.0 168.7 Additions 38.1 38.1 Translation adjustment 6.0 0.1 12.4 18.5 Balance at 31 December 2018 524.1 286.4 443.2 1,253.7 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 1 January 2017 155.1 161.2 316.3 Amortisation for the year 18.3 26.7 45.0 Translation adjustment 0.1 0.1 Balance at 31 December 2017 173.4 188.0 361.4 Balance at 1 January 2018 173.4 188.0 361.4 Amortisation for the year 23.9 31.7 55.6 Translation adjustment 0.3 0.3 Balance at 31 December 2018 197.3 220.0 417.3 Net book value Balance at 31 December 2017 453.8 74.4 138.8 667.0 Balance at 31 December 2018 524.1 89.1 223.2 836.4 Software predominately relates to investment in the functionality of the Groups main operating platforms.
Included within additions in the year is 16.2m 2017: 15.5m of employee staff costs that have been capitalised in respect of internal software development.
Acquisition-related intangible assets consist primarily of customer lists arising from business combinations.
Goodwill is the only intangible asset with an indefinite life.
155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 4.3 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Goodwill Goodwill arose initially on the acquisition of the Lloyds TSB Registrars business and subsequently through equity and trade and asset acquisitions.
For goodwill on current year acquisitions see note 4.1.
Goodwill is monitored by management in line with the Groups operating segments: Investment Solutions, Intelligent Solutions, Pensions Solutions, EQ US and Interest.
Opening Translation Closing balance Acquisitions Disposals adjustment balance Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m Investment Solutions 289.4 2.2 291.6 Intelligent Solutions 77.2 0.1 77.3 Pensions Solutions 87.2 4.2 91.4 EQ US 57.9 5.9 63.8 Total goodwill 453.8 64.3 6.0 524.1 Opening Translation Closing balance Acquisitions Disposals adjustment balance Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m Investment Solutions 289.4 289.4 Intelligent Solutions 66.5 11.0 0.3 77.2 Pensions Solutions 87.2 87.2 EQ US Total goodwill 443.1 11.0 0.3 453.8 Impairment testing Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
The recoverable amount of cash-generating units CGUs has been determined in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
This is determined from value-in-use calculations, being the present value of net cash flows generated by the business over the period for which management expects to benefit from the acquired business.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding discount rates and revenue growth rates.
The CGU derives cash flows from its most recent business plans over a three-year period.
The projected cash flows are discounted using a weighted average cost of capital, reflecting current market assessments on debt equity ratios of similar businesses and risks specific to the CGUs.
The outcome of the impairment assessment has been that the Directors do not consider that the goodwill has been impaired, given that the value in use is greater than the carrying value of goodwill.
The revenue growth rate applied beyond the approved forecast period is in line with underlying UK and US macro-economic forecasts.
Year ended 31 December 2018 UK & Europe USA Period on which management approved forecasts are based 3 years 3 years Revenue growth rate applied beyond approved forecast period 2.1% 1.8% Discount rate pre-tax 8.1% 9.8% Year ended 31 December 2017 UK & Europe USA Period on which management approved forecasts are based 3 years Revenue growth rate applied beyond approved forecast period 2.4% Discount rate pre-tax 10.2% Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis was carried out on the key estimates made within the value-in-use model, applying a 1% increase in the pre-tax discount rate and a 1% reduction in the growth rate.
In the opinion of the Directors, there are no reasonably possible changes to these key assumptions which would cause the carrying value of any CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
156 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 4.4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The Directors consider the value of the investments to be supported by their underlying assets.
The Group has the following investments in subsidiaries: Ownership % on 31 December Name of controlled entity Registered office address Principal activities 2018 Direct Investments Equiniti Holdings Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Holding company 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Finance Holdings Ltd Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Holding company 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti UK Finance Ltd Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Non-trading 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Indirect Investments Aquila International Limited Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, Dormant 100 RH10 1UH, United Kingdom Aquila Services UK Limited Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, Dormant 100 RH10 1UH, United Kingdom Aquila Software Limited Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, Dormant 100 RH10 1UH, United Kingdom Boudicca Proxy Ltd Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Proxy solicitation 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Charter.
Net Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Charter Systems Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service provider 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Charter UK Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service provider 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Circle of Insight Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Claybrook Computing Limited Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, Computer software consultancy 100 RH10 1UH, United Kingdom Connaught Secretaries Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Custodian Nominees Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Dormant 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom David Venus & Company LLP Elder House, St Georges Business Park, 207 Brooklands Dormant 50 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Benefactor Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti 360 Clinical Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Business process outsourcing 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Data Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service provider 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti David Venus Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Company secretarial 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Delivery Services Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service provider 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Employee Services PTY Limited 102B Newlands Plaza, CNR Lois & Dely, Newlands, Computer software development 100 00181, South Africa Equiniti Financial Services Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Financial services 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Equiniti Gateway Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Technology enabled services 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 4.4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED Ownership % on 31 December Name of controlled entity Registered office address Principal activities 2018 Equiniti Global Payments Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands International payment services 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti HR Solutions Limited Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, Non-trading 100 RH10 1UH, United Kingdom Equiniti India Private Limited DLF IT Park, 1 124, Mt Poonamalle High Road, Technology enabled services 100 Ramapuram, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600 089, India Equiniti ICS Limited 205 Airport Road West, Belfast, BT3 9ED, United Business process outsourcing 100 Kingdom Equiniti Ireland Finance Ltd 5255 Sir John Rogersons Quay, Dublin 2, D02 NA07, Non-trading 100 Republic of Ireland Equiniti ISA Nominees Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Jersey Limited 26 New Street, St Helier, JE2 3RA, Jersey Registrars 100 Equiniti KYC Solutions B. V. Donker Curtiusstraat 7, Unit 117-118, 1051 JL Software service provider 100 Amsterdam, The Netherlands Equiniti KYC Systems B. V. Donker Curtiusstraat 7, Unit 117-118, 1051 JL Software service provider 100 Amsterdam, The Netherlands Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Registrars 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Equiniti Nominees Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Pension Trustee Limited Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, Dormant 100 RH10 1UH, United Kingdom Equiniti PMS Limited Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, Software service provider 100 RH10 1UH, United Kingdom Equiniti Registrars Nominees Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Savings Nominees Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Services Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Holding company 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Trustee company 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Equiniti Shareview Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Solutions Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Non-trading 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Equiniti Trust Company 25th Floor, 90 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016, United Limited purpose trust company 100 States Equiniti US Holdings Limited 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, County of Holding company 100 New Castle 19801, United States Equiniti US LLC 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, County of Non-trading 100 New Castle 19801, United States Equiniti US Services LLC 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, County of Non-trading 100 New Castle 19801, United States Information Software Solutions Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Holding company 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom icenet Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Invigia International Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Invigia Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom provider 158 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 4.4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED Ownership % on 31 December Name of controlled entity Registered office address Principal activities 2018 KYCnet BV Donker Curtiusstraat 7, Unit 117118, 1051 JL Holding company 100 Amsterdam, The Netherlands L R Nominees Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Dormant 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom MyCSP Limited Park Square, Bird Hall Lane, Stockport, SK3 0XN, Pensions administration 75 United Kingdom MyCSP Trustee Company Limited Park Square, Bird Hall Lane, Stockport, SK3 0XN, Non-trading 75 United Kingdom MyCustomerfeedback.
com Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service provider 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Pancredit Systems Ltd Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Business process outsourcing 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Paymaster 1836 Limited Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, Pensions administration 100 RH10 1UH, United Kingdom Peter Evans & Associates Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Business process outsourcing 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Prism Communications & Management Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, 207 Brooklands Company secretarial 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Prism Cosec Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, 207 Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Prosearch Asset Solutions Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Asset recovery 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Refresh Personal Finance Ltd Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service provider 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Riskfactor Solutions Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service provider 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Riskfactor Software Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service provider 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom SLC Corporate Services Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom SLC Registrars Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom The Nostrum Group Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service provider 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Toplevel Computing Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Software service provider 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Toplevel Development Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Toplevel Holdings Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Holding company 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Toplevel Software Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Trust Research Services Limited Elder House, St Georges Business Park, Brooklands Dormant 100 Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS, United Kingdom Wealth Nominees Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Dormant 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom The shareholding in MyCSP Limited increased from 51% to 75% in September 2018.
All the above investments are held in the Ordinary share capital of the company.
159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 4.4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED Audit exemption guarantee The following subsidiaries will take advantage of the exemption from audit of their individual financial statements, under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, for the year ended 31 December 2018: Registration Registration Company name Company name number number Boudicca Proxy Ltd 07847924 Information Software Solutions Limited 03915585 Charter Systems Limited 06147539 Invigia Limited 03318315 Charter UK Limited 02453655 MyCSP Limited 07640786 Claybrook Computing Limited 01287205 Mycustomerfeedback.
com Limited 06829521 Equiniti 360 Clinical Limited 04957851 Pancredit Systems Ltd 02215760 Equiniti Data Limited 05350329 Peter Evans & Associates Limited 01870532 Equiniti David Venus Limited 06351754 Prism Communications & Management Limited 04352585 Equiniti Delivery Services Limited 08855189 Prosearch Asset Solutions Limited 02158381 Equiniti Finance Holdings Ltd 11092909 Refresh Personal Finance Ltd 07369895 Equiniti ICS Limited NI036763 Riskfactor Software Limited 03923431 Equiniti PMS Limited 03613039 Riskfactor Solutions Limited 02767525 Equiniti Services Limited 00756582 The Nostrum Group Limited 04274181 Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited 03925002 Toplevel Computing Limited 02341302 Equiniti Solutions Limited 03335560 Toplevel Holdings Limited 03270082 Equiniti UK Finance Ltd 11092548 As a condition of the above exemption, the Group has guaranteed the year end liabilities of the relevant subsidiaries until they are settled in full.
The liabilities of the above subsidiaries at the year end date were 116.2m 2017: 128.5m.
160 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 5 WORKING CAPITAL 5.1 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2018 2017 m m Trade receivables 46.4 28.7 Other receivables 7.1 6.9 Prepayments 10.6 8.9 Total trade and other receivables 64.1 44.5 Excluding trade receivables, none of these financial assets are either past due or impaired.
At the year end, trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for doubtful debts of 0.2m 2017: 0.4m.
The impairment loss recognised in the year was 0.2m 2017: 0.3m.
Credit risk The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 2018 2017 m m Not past due 29.0 16.7 Past due 130 days 12.6 7.5 Past due 3190 days 3.0 3.0 Past due more than 90 days 1.8 1.5 Total trade receivables 46.4 28.7 Trade receivables not past due of 29.0m 2017: 16.7m are all existing customers with no defaults in the past.
Based on historic performance of these contracts, the Group has made an impairment allowance of 0.2m 2017: 0.4m in respect of trade receivables and accrued income.
Where impairment allowances are made, these are for the full value of the impaired debt.
Movement in the year in the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Balance at 1 January 0.4 0.2 Balances acquired from business acquisitions 0.2 New provisions made in year 0.1 0.3 Balances reversed in year 0.5 0.1 Balance at 31 December 0.2 0.4 Trade receivables past due but not impaired of 17.4m 2017: 12.0m relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default or expectation of such going forwards.
5.2 CONTRACT FULFILMENT ASSETS 2018 2017 m m Accrued income 41.6 32.7 Contract set up costs 4.6 5.2 Contract fulfilment assets 46.2 37.9 As a result of adopting IFRS 15, accrued income and contract set up costs have been reclassified as contract fulfilment assets within the statement of financial position.
Accrued income represents the fair value of goods and services supplied to customers, for which the Group is entitled to recognise revenue, and is not yet invoiced or paid.
All such assets are supported by client contracts.
This allows accrued income to be underpinned and recovered from clients even on the rare occasions that clients cease projects with us permanently.
161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 5.3 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2018 2017 m m Trade payables 26.8 20.2 Accruals 64.8 44.2 Deferred consideration 7.3 5.4 Other payables 13.3 11.0 Total trade and other payables 112.2 80.8 5.4 CONTRACT FULFILMENT LIABILITIES 2018 2017 m m Deferred income 16.4 16.2 Contract fulfilment liabilities 16.4 16.2 As a result of adopting IFRS 15, deferred income has been reclassified as contract fulfilment liabilities within the statement of financial position.
This was previously classified within trade and other payables.
Deferred income represents amounts invoiced in advance of the related services or goods being provided to the customer.
Revenue recognised in relation to contract fulfilment liabilities 2018 2017 m m Revenue recognised that was included in the contract liability balance as at 1 January 14.9 13.8 14.9 13.8 5.5 PROVISIONS Contingent Property Total consideration provisions provisions m m m Balance at 1 January 2018 21.2 1.5 22.7 Balances acquired from business acquisitions 2.2 0.3 2.5 Additional provisions made during the year 0.5 0.5 Amounts utilised during the year 2.1 0.1 2.2 Amounts released during the year 2.4 2.4 Unwinding of discounted amount 0.8 0.8 Balance at 31 December 2018 19.7 2.2 21.9 Non-current 10.6 2.2 12.8 Current 9.1 9.1 Total provisions 19.7 2.2 21.9 Contingent consideration A provision for contingent consideration as at 31 December 2018 of 19.7m 2017: 21.2m relates to various requirements to be met following the Groups acquisitions.
This is recognised at fair value through profit or loss and is derived from managements best estimate of the amounts likely to be paid.
The minimum value of these provisions could be nil up to a maximum of 28.9m.
These were discounted at an appropriate post-tax discount rate at the time of the acquisitions and are provided within provisions due to their uncertainty.
Management regularly reconsiders the appropriateness of the discount rate used and updates when appropriate.
The remaining balance is expected to be utilised over periods between 2019 and 2021.
162 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 5.5 PROVISIONS CONTINUED Property provisions Property provisions relate to managements best estimate of dilapidations in respect of leasehold properties.
The balance will be utilised on vacation of premises.
5.6 CASH FLOWS FROM MOVEMENTS IN WORKING CAPITAL 2018 2017 Movement m m m Trade and other receivables 64.1 44.5 19.6 Contract fulfilment assets 46.2 37.9 8.3 Trade and other payables 112.1 80.8 31.3 Contract fulfilment liabilities 16.4 16.2 0.2 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 21.9 22.7 0.8 Post-employment benefits 22.9 22.7 0.2 Net working capital per the consolidated statement of financial position 63.0 60.0 3.0 Working capital acquired in business combinations 3.2 Movement in interest accrual 2.8 Movement in tax accrual 0.4 Movement in capital expenditure accrual 5.5 Movement in accruals relating to prior year acquisitions 4.0 Movement in accruals relating to non-controlling interests 4.2 Movement in accruals relating to share issue costs 0.9 Movement in accruals relating to loan set-up fees 0.5 Foreign exchange movement on translation of overseas subsidiaries 0.1 Defined benefit plan actuarial loss 0.2 Changes in working capital per the consolidated statement of cash flows 0.8 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6 CAPITAL STRUCTURE 6.1 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS 2018 2017 Finance income m m Interest income 0.2 0.4 Net foreign exchange gains from forward contracts 0.4 Total finance income 0.2 0.8 2018 2017 Finance costs m m Interest cost on senior secured borrowings 8.1 5.8 Interest cost on revolving credit facility 2.4 1.7 Amortisation of finance arrangement fees 2.2 1.6 Net finance cost relating to pension schemes 0.6 0.6 Unwinding of discounted amount in provisions 0.8 0.7 Cost of interest rate swap against financial liabilities 1.2 1.8 Foreign exchange loss 0.1 Other fees and interest 0.2 0.2 Total finance costs 15.5 12.5 6.2 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM Share capital Share premium 2018 2017 2018 2017 Allotted, called up and fully paid m m m m Balance at 1 January 0.4 0.3 115.8 Employee share options exercised 0.1 0.1 Rights issue 0.1 115.7 Balance at 31 December 0.4 0.4 115.9 115.8 2018 2017 Ordinary shares of 0.001 each Number Number Balance at 1 January 364,434,283 300,012,911 Employee share options exercised 102,383 112,138 Rights issue 64,309,234 Balance at 31 December 364,536,666 364,434,283 The Group issued 102,383 ordinary shares on exercise of employee share options during the year 2017: 112,138.
The shares were issued at a weighted average exercise price of 1.19 per share.
164 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6.3 OTHER RESERVES Capital contribution Reserve for Hedging Translation Total other reserve own shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2017 181.5 4.9 3.1 189.5 Changes in fair value through hedging reserve 12.2 12.2 Deferred tax on movement through hedging reserve 0.8 0.8 Net exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 0.1 0.1 Balance at 31 December 2017 181.5 6.5 3.0 178.0 Balance at 1 January 2018 181.5 6.5 3.0 178.0 Changes in fair value through hedging reserve 4.4 4.4 Deferred tax on movement through hedging reserve 0.9 0.9 Net exchange gain on translation of foreign operations 10.9 10.9 Purchase of own shares 13.9 13.9 Own shares awarded to employees 3.9 3.9 Balance at 31 December 2018 181.5 10.0 3.0 13.9 182.4 Capital contribution reserve The capital contribution reserve arose on the Initial Public Offering in 2015, when the Group issued equity instruments to settle non-current financial liabilities with shareholders.
Reserve for own shares During the year, the Group purchased 6,000,000 2017: nil of its own ordinary shares for consideration of 13.9m.
The shares are held in an employee benefit trust, which is controlled by the Group, and will be used to satisfy the vesting of awards under the Groups share option plans.
During the year 1,697,093 2017: nil shares were used to satisfy the vesting of awards.
Shares held by the trust are deducted from equity and the trust has waived its right to receive dividends.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts where the hedged transactions have not yet occurred.
Translation reserve The translation reserve represents the foreign exchange movements arising from the translation of financial statements in foreign currencies to the presentational currency of the Group.
165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6.4 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST The Group controls one non-wholly owned trading subsidiary, MyCSP Limited.
In September 2018, the Group purchased an additional 24% of the issued share capital of MyCSP Limited increasing its shareholding from 51% to 75%, for consideration of 8.0m, including 4.0m payable immediately and 4.0m deferred until October 2020.
Prior to the additional purchase, the carrying value of the existing 49% non-controlling interest was 20.3m.
The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interests of 10.0m and an increase in equity attributable to owners of the parent of 2.0m.
m Carrying amount of non-controlling interest acquired 10.0 Consideration paid to non-controlling interests 4.0 Deferred consideration 4.0 Excess of consideration paid recognised in equity attributable to owners of the parent 2.0 The summarised financial information for MyCSP Limited, set out below, is prior to intercompany eliminations.
2018 2017 Summarised statement of financial position m m Non-current assets 1.3 1.4 Current assets 33.6 33.9 Non-current liabilities 1.3 1.4 Current liabilities 11.4 12.1 Net assets 22.2 21.8 2018 2017 Summarised statement of comprehensive income m m Revenue 40.1 40.6 Profit for the year 5.9 6.0 Other comprehensive income 0.1 0.2 Total comprehensive income 6.0 6.2 Transactions with non-controlling interests 25% of MyCSP Limited is owned by employees of MyCSP via an employee benefit trust and shares rank pari passu with the remaining share capital, including receiving annual dividends when declared.
In the current and prior year, dividends have been waived by the trust in lieu of a bonus payment through payroll.
This is reflected within transactions with non-controlling interests in the statement of changes in equity.
166 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6.5 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Shares held by the Equiniti Group Employee Benefit Trust are treated as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
These shares are excluded from the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue until the shares are transferred to the option holder.
The diluted earnings per share calculation includes vested share options outstanding and other potential shares where the impact of these is dilutive.
2018 2017 1 Restated m m Profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 17.5 11.6 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue millions 363.0 331.6 Dilutive performance share plan options millions 7.1 Dilutive employee SAYE options millions 1.7 1.5 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue millions 371.8 333.1 Basic earnings per share pence 4.8 3.5 Diluted earnings per share pence 4.7 3.5 1 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 15 - see note 1 for details 6.6 DIVIDENDS 2018 2017 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders of the parent in the year m m Interim dividend for year ended 31 December 2018 1.83p per share 6.6 Final dividend for year ended 31 December 2017 2.73p per share 9.9 Interim dividend for year ended 31 December 2017 1.64p per share 5.3 Final dividend for year ended 31 December 2016 2.91p per share 9.3 16.5 14.6 The Board recommends a final dividend payable in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 of 12.7m 2017: 9.9m or 3.49p per share 2017: 2.73p per share.
As this is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2019, no liability has been included in these financial statements.
The final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2019, to shareholders on the register at close of business on 12 April 2019.
The Equiniti Group Employee Benefit Trust has waived its right to receive dividends on shares held.
6.7 EXTERNAL LOANS AND BORROWINGS 2018 2017 Non-current liabilities m m Term loan 322.6 250.0 Revolving credit facility 76.7 Unamortised cost of raising finance 4.1 6.0 Total external loans and borrowings 395.2 244.0 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6.7 EXTERNAL LOANS AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED Year of Terms and debt repayment schedule Currency Closing interest rate maturity Term loan Sterling GBP Libor 1.75% 2020 Term loan US dollar USD Libor 1.75% 2020 Revolving credit facility Sterling GBP Libor 1.75% 2020 Revolving credit facility US dollar USD Libor 1.75% 2020 The Groups debt facilities, which mature in full in 2020, contain one financial covenant only, namely a maximum ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the loan agreement which is tested half yearly and at the year end.
Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more than 4.50:1 for the years to 31 December 2017 and 4.00:1 thereafter.
The Group was in compliance with this covenant at the year end.
The margin payable on both the term loan and revolving credit facility RCF is determined based on the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA, where the margin payable ranges from a maximum of 2.25% to a minimum of 1.25%.
No debt is repayable before the end of our current funding agreement in 2020.
In 2017, the Group entered into an agreement with existing and new banks to increase existing loan facilities, comprising of a $92.0m term loan and 49.0m of revolving credit facilities, increasing total facilities to a term loan of 250.0m and $92.0m and 199.0m of revolving credit facilities.
The increased facilities became effective on the completion of the Wells Fargo Shareowner Services acquisition in February 2018 and have the same maturity as the existing facilities, October 2020.
6.8 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES The movements during the year in financial liabilities relating to financing activities and a reconciliation to net debt are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Term loan 322.6 250.0 Revolving credit facility 76.7 Finance lease liabilities 1.1 1.7 Cash and cash equivalents 90.9 115.2 Net debt 309.5 136.5 Liabilities from financing activities Other assets Revolving Finance lease Cash and cash Term loan credit facility liabilities equivalents Total m m m m m Net debt at 1 January 2017 250.0 56.0 1.9 56.7 251.2 New finance leases acquired 0.4 0.4 Interest on finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.1 Cash flows 56.0 0.7 58.5 115.2 Net debt at 31 December 2017 250.0 1.7 115.2 136.5 Net debt at 1 January 2018 250.0 1.7 115.2 136.5 Cash flows 64.9 76.1 0.9 24.7 164.8 New finance leases acquired 0.2 0.2 Interest on finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange movements 7.7 0.6 0.4 7.9 Net debt at 31 December 2018 322.6 76.7 1.1 90.9 309.5 168 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6.9 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents per statement of financial position 90.9 115.2 Cash and cash equivalents per statement of cash flows 90.9 115.2 In addition to the above, the Group holds certain cash balances with banks in a number of segregated accounts.
These balances represent client money under management for third parties, and hence are not included in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
The number of accounts and balances held vary significantly throughout the year.
The Group has the ability to sell certain trade receivables in a receivables purchase agreement on a non-recourse basis.
These balances are therefore derecognised when sold under this arrangement.
The Group has access to a 20.0m arrangement of which 10.3m 2017: 19.9m was utilised at the end of the year and included within the cash balances above.
Invoices sold are all covered by trade credit insurance.
The trade receivables shown in note 5.1 are reflected net of cash received at the year end.
6.10 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk Risk management policies are established for the Group and the Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with these policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty, including brokers, to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers.
Due to the nature of the business, the majority of the trade receivables and contract fulfilment assets are with large institutions, including many FTSE 350 companies and public sector organisations.
Losses have only occurred infrequently in previous years and have never been material.
Credit risk mitigation The Group has a low credit risk on its trade receivables and contract assets as a high proportion of revenue is derived from large customers listed on the major international stock exchanges and historical defaults have been infrequent and small.
For cash, cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments, only banks and financial institutions with credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies are accepted, with 100% of cash balances at the year end being held in banks and financial institutions with a short-term credit rating of A or higher.
169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6.10 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that the Group will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions.
The maximum exposure to liquidity risk at the reporting dates was as follows: Total Carrying contractual Within 12 25 Amount cash flows 1 year years years 31 December 2018 Note m m m m m Trade and other payables 5.3 112.2 112.2 112.2 Term loan 6.7 322.6 342.9 10.0 332.9 Revolving credit facility 6.7 76.7 76.7 76.7 Other financial liabilities 9.2 1.1 1.3 0.5 0.5 0.3 Derivatives used for hedging 9.2 3.6 4.7 2.5 1.5 0.7 Total 516.2 537.8 125.2 411.6 1.0 Total Carrying contractual Within 12 25 Amount cash flows 1 year years years 31 December 2017 Note m m m m m Trade and other payables 5.3 80.8 80.8 80.8 Term loan 6.7 250.0 267.4 5.8 5.8 255.8 Other financial liabilities 9.2 1.7 1.9 0.7 0.5 0.7 Derivatives used for hedging 9.2 9.2 9.3 7.5 1.0 0.8 Total 341.7 359.4 94.8 7.3 257.3 All trade and other payables are expected to be paid in six months or less.
Liquidity risk mitigation The Group regularly updates forecasts for cash flow and covenants, to ensure it has sufficient funding available.
It maintains significant cash balances to meet future cash funding requirements and had 90.9m of cash at 31 December 2018.
The Group also has revolving credit facilities of 199.0m available, of which 122.3m was undrawn at 31 December 2018.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
a Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on both interest earned on segregated funds administered for third parties and its net finance costs.
Net finance costs include interest costs on the term loan and the RCF and interest income on the Groups own deposits.
Interest costs payable are mostly linked to changes in Libor.
Interest income receivable is largely driven by changes in the Bank of England base rate and the US Federal Reserve benchmark rate.
A movement in interest rates which negatively affects net finance costs would have a positive effect on revenue, and vice versa.
170 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6.10 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Interest rate risk mitigation Exposure to interest rate fluctuations is partly managed through the use of interest rate swaps.
Interest rate swaps, which are designated as hedges under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, are agreed by the Board and have the objective of reducing the impact of variations in interest rates on the Groups profit and cash flow.
The Group does not enter into speculative transactions in financial instruments or derivatives.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Group has entered into sterling denominated interest rate swaps totalling 1,025.0m to July 2020 380.0m, to September 2021 215.0m, to September 2022 215.0m and to September 2023 215.0m and $700.0m interest rate swaps to March 2021, exchanging the variable rate derived interest income on segregated funds into fixed rates.
The 250.0m term loan accrues interest based on a margin over Libor.
The Group entered into an interest rate swap exchanging variable based interest charges for fixed rate for a period of three years.
This swap expired in 2018 and has not been replaced.
The Group has not entered into a hedge of its outstanding RCF commitments.
The Directors monitor the overall level of borrowings, leverage ratio and interest costs to limit any adverse effects on financial performance of the Group.
Sensitivity analysis In managing interest rate risks, the Group aim to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Groups earnings.
Over the longer-term, however, permanent changes in interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
An increase of one percentage point in interest rates effective from the start of 2018 would have increased finance costs for the Group by 1.4m, and increased interest revenue by 10.1m, yielding a net increase in profit after tax of 6.8m.
This includes the impact of interest rate swaps, which reduce the fluctuations resulting from interest rate movements.
Had no hedging been in place for this example of a one percentage point increase in interest rates, the net increase to profit after tax would be 16.0m.
b Foreign exchange rate risk The Group has exposure to foreign exchange rate risk on cash flows in overseas operations which are affected by foreign currency movements.
The Group's main risk is from the EQ US business which exposes the Group to foreign exchange rate movements between sterling and the US dollar.
The Group also has foreign exchange rate risk arising from costs incurred in operating its service centre in Chennai and this exposes the Group to movements between sterling and Indian rupee.
The Group has implemented a hedging policy to reduce the risks associated with movements in this exchange rate by entering into a series of forward contracts based on expected cash flows to purchase Indian Rupee.
These forward contracts are designated as hedges under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Group has net investments in foreign operations in US dollar, Indian rupee and Euro, the re-translation of which on consolidation gives rise to exposure to the carrying values of non-Sterling assets and liabilities.
The group has designated US$103.0m of term debt and RCF borrowings as a hedge of a net investment in its EQ US business.
c Equity price risk The Group does not hold its own position in trading securities and is involved only in arranging share dealing transactions on behalf of its clients.
171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6.11 CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is focused on delivering value for its shareholders whilst ensuring it is able to continue effectively as a going concern.
Value adding opportunities to grow the business are continually assessed, although strict and careful criteria are applied.
Total capital comprises total equity plus net debt, as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Net debt equates to the total of external interest bearing loans plus other finance lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents, as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position and note 6.8.
The policies for managing capital are to increase shareholder value by maximising profits and cash.
The policy is to set budgets and forecasts in the short and medium term that the Group ensures are achievable.
The process for managing capital is regular reviews of financial data, to ensure that the Group is tracking the targets set and to reforecast as necessary, based on the most up to date information whilst checking that future covenant test points are met.
The Group may also consider repayment of debt, issuance of new and repurchase of existing shares and adjusting dividend payments to shareholders, to maintain an optimum capital structure.
The Board regularly reviews the Groups capital structure and no changes have been made to these objectives and processes since the Group listed in October 2015.
The Board considers it has sufficient funds to pay dividends in line with the stated policies for the foreseeable future.
Under the terms of the current loan agreement signed in October 2015, the Group has one covenant, a maximum ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Regulated entities In the UK, the Group has one significant Financial Conduct Authority FCA regulated entity, Equiniti Financial Services Limited EFSL, which must maintain minimum levels of capital in order to manage its affairs.
It must ensure that it can meet its regulatory capital requirements and has sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, including under potentially highly stressed conditions.
EFSL has its own governance structure and holds monthly Board meetings and quarterly Risk and Audit Committee meetings, to ensure its regulatory objectives are met.
In the US, the Group has an entity regulated by the New York State Department of Financial Services DFS, Equiniti Trust Company ETC.
ETC is approved by the DFS as a limited licensed bank under the New York State Banking Laws and has minimum capital requirements set by the DFS.
To help meet its regulatory requirements, ETC has its own governance structure which includes a Board with independent non-executive Directors: an Examination Committee: an Audit Committee: and a Remuneration and Nominations Committee.
2018 2017 Management of capital 1 Restated Note m m Equity 511.2 511.7 Term loan 6.7 322.6 250.0 Revolving credit facility 6.7 76.7 Finance lease liabilities 9.2 1.1 1.7 Cash and cash equivalents 6.9 90.9 115.2 Total equity plus net debt 820.7 648.2 1 Restated for the adoption of IFRS 15 - see note 1 for details 6.12 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities are classified as per IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures according to the following categories: 2018 2017 Financial assets Note m m At amortised cost Trade and other receivables 5.1 53.5 35.6 Contract fulfilment assets 5.2 46.2 37.9 Cash and cash equivalents 6.9 90.9 115.2 At fair value through profit or loss Derivatives used for hedging 6.13 0.7 1.9 Total financial assets 191.3 190.6 172 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6.12 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 2018 2017 Financial liabilities Note m m At amortised cost Trade and other payables 5.3 112.2 80.8 Contract fulfilment liabilities 5.4 16.4 16.2 Secured bank loans 6.7 322.6 250.0 Revolving credit facility 6.7 76.7 Other financial liabilities 9.2 1.1 1.7 At fair value through profit or loss Derivative used for hedging 6.13 3.6 9.2 Total financial liabilities 532.6 357.9 Fair value hierarchy The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets m m m m Derivatives used for hedging: Interest rate swaps 0.3 0.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.4 0.4 Total assets 0.7 0.7 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Liabilities m m m m Derivatives used for hedging: Interest rate swaps 3.6 3.6 Total liabilities 3.6 3.6 There were no transfers between levels during the year.
Valuation techniques used to derive level 2 fair values Level 2 hedging derivatives comprise interest rate swaps, deal contingency forwards and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The interest rate swaps are fair valued using forward interest rates extracted from observable yield curves and the deal contingency forwards and forward foreign exchange contracts are fair valued using the future contracted exchange rates.
The effects of discounting are generally insignificant for level 2 derivatives.
The Groups policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels as of the date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer.
The valuation technique used is a discounted cash flow model.
There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.
Groups valuation processes The Groups finance department includes a team that monitors the values of financial assets and liabilities required for financial reporting purposes.
This team ultimately reports to the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
Valuations are reviewed at least once every six months, in line with the Groups reporting dates.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities There are no material differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities and their fair value.
The only financial instruments measured at fair value are the derivatives.
173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 6.13 DERIVATIVES In October 2015, the Group entered into an interest rate swap of its 250.0m term loan, exchanging variable based interest charges for fixed rate for a period of three years.
This agreement expired in October 2018 and has not been replaced.
The Group has entered into sterling denominated interest rate swaps totalling 1,025.0m to August 2020 380.0m, to September 2021 215.0m, to September 2022 215.0m and to September 2023 215.0m and $700.0m interest rate swaps to March 2021, exchanging the variable rate derived interest rate income to fixed rates.
The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its exposure to adverse variations in the GBP INR exchange rate.
All the above derivatives, which are effective at a Group level, have been designated as cash flow hedges and qualify for hedge accounting.
They are measured at fair value, with changes recognised within other comprehensive income.
The following tables indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur and are expected to impact the profit and loss: Total Carrying contractual Within 6 612 12 25 amount cash flows months months years years 31 December 2018 m m m m m m Assets Interest rate swaps 0.3 1.3 0.6 0.6 0.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.4 0.4 0.4 Total 0.7 1.7 1.0 0.6 0.1 Liabilities Interest rate swaps 3.6 4.7 1.1 1.4 1.5 0.7 Total 3.6 4.7 1.1 1.4 1.5 0.7 Total Carrying contractual Within 6 612 12 25 amount cash flows months months years years 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Assets Interest rate swaps 1.9 1.9 1.6 0.3 Total 1.9 1.9 1.6 0.3 Liabilities Interest rate swaps 3.4 3.5 0.8 0.9 1.0 0.8 Deal contingency forward 5.8 5.8 5.8 Total 9.2 9.3 6.6 0.9 1.0 0.8 174 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 7 GOVERNANCE 7.1 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 2018 2017 m m Directors emoluments 2.3 2.5 Share-based payment expense 1.9 1.0 Total directors remuneration 4.2 3.5 The Executive Directors receive a cash payment in lieu of retirement benefits and therefore no benefits were accruing under money purchase pension schemes at the year end.
Full details of the Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 92-117.
7.2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group operates several share-based award and option plans, the terms of which are summarised below, along with the movements in the number of share options during the year.
Performance Share Plan PSP Share options are granted to Executive Directors and selected employees with nil exercise price.
Share options granted under the PSP scheme are conditional on a minimum 6% earnings per share growth except for the share options granted in 2018 which are conditional on a minimum of 8% earnings per share growth and median total shareholder return over a three-year vesting period.
Vested options can be exercised over a period of up to ten years from the grant date.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices were as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted Number of average exercise Number of average exercise options price options price Outstanding at 1 January 10,473,276 0.00 8,236,516 0.00 Granted 1,987,167 0.00 2,954,361 0.00 Forfeited 83,920 0.00 717,601 0.00 Exercised 1,697,093 0.00 0.00 Outstanding at 31 December 10,679,430 0.00 10,473,276 0.00 Out of the 10,679,430 2017: 10,473,276 outstanding options at the end of the year, 4,620,723 2017: none were exercisable.
The significant inputs into the model were the share price of 3.13 at the grant date, the exercise price shown above, volatility of 32.1% based on the historical share price volatility of Equiniti Group plc since listing in October 2015, a dividend yield of 1.4%, an expected option life of three years and an annual risk-free interest rate of 1.0%.
The total charge for the year relating to this scheme was 5.6m 2017: 3.1m.
Sharesave Plan 2015 Share options are granted to full time Directors and employees who enter into Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC approved share savings scheme.
Participants can save a maximum of 500 per month over three to five years.
The number of shares over which an option is granted is such that the total option price payable for those shares corresponds to the proceeds on maturity of the related savings contract.
The exercise price is calculated as 80% of the average share price over the three preceding days or, in relation to new issue shares, the nominal value of a share.
Granted options vest over the maturity of the savings contract and can be exercised over a period of up to six months after vesting.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices were as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted Number of average exercise Number of average exercise options price options price Outstanding at 1 January 3,507,110 1.19 3,912,896 1.27 Granted 1.19 227,825 Forfeited 217,646 1.19 521,473 1.27 Exercised 102,383 1.19 112,138 1.27 Outstanding at 31 December 3,187,081 1.19 3,507,110 1.19 Out of the 3,187,081 2017: 3,507,110 outstanding options at the end of the year, 22,542 2017: 60,973 were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of 1.19.
176 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 7.2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 30% of the annual bonus for Directors and selected employees is delivered in shares which are deferred for three years from the date of the award.
Shares awarded under the deferred annual bonus plan are not subject to any performance conditions but can be forfeited, either in part or in full, subject to continued employment, unless deemed a good leaver by the Remuneration Committee.
The number of shares awarded is calculated using the market value of shares on grant date.
Movements in the number of shares outstanding were as follows: 2018 2017 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 142,626 Granted 206,591 143,820 Forfeited 1,194 Outstanding at 31 December 349,217 142,626 Out of the 349,217 2017: 142,626 shares outstanding at the end of the year, none 2017: none were exercisable.
Shares outstanding at the end of the year had the following expiry dates: Expiry date 2018 2017 Grant date Vest date Year Number Number 2017 2020 2027 142,626 142,626 2018 2021 2028 206,591 349,217 142,626 The total cash value of the deferred shares awarded during the year was 0.6m 2017: 0.3m.
7.3 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions with key management personnel The compensation of key management personnel including the Directors is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Key management emoluments 5.8 4.5 Company contributions to money purchase pension plans 0.1 0.1 Share-based payment expense 3.5 1.7 Total 9.4 6.3 Key management are the Directors of the Group and the Executive Committee, who have authority and responsibility to control, direct or plan the major activities within the Group.
177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 7.4 AUDITORS REMUNERATION 2018 2017 m m Fees payable to Groups external auditors,  LLP, and its associates were as follows: Audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.2 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.2 0.1 Audit fees 0.5 0.3 Fees payable to Groups auditors and its associates for non-audit services were as follows: Other assurance services 0.2 0.2 Other services 0.1 0.1 Non-audit fees 0.3 0.3 Total 0.8 0.6 Other assurance services includes 0.2m 2017: 0.2m for services performed in relation to the CASS audit of Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
Fees for other services relate to the audit of controls and acquired balances of EQ US.
CASS audit fees are excluded from the ratio of audit to non-audit fees, and therefore the ratio for 2018 was 1:0.2 2017: 1:0.3.
The Audit Committee is committed to maintaining this ratio to a maximum of 70% of the average statutory audit fee.
178 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 8 TAXATION 8.1 INCOME TAX CHARGE 2018 2017 Recognised in the income statement in the year: m m Current tax: Current period 3.5 5.7 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.4 0.2 Total current tax 2.1 5.9 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.2 1.0 Impact of rate changes on opening deferred tax balances 2.3 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.6 0.8 Total deferred tax 1.8 4.1 Total income tax charge 3.9 10.0 2018 2017 Reconciliation of effective tax rate: m m Profit for the year 20.7 15.3 Total tax charge 3.9 10.0 Profit before tax 24.6 25.3 Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 19.00% 2017: 19.25% : 4.7 4.9 Non-deductible expenses 0.9 2.4 Recognised loss on derivative contract 1.9 Previously unrecognised tax assets 0.1 0.2 Effect of tax rate change 0.2 2.1 Effect of claims for research and development 0.1 Share scheme deductions 0.6 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.2 1.0 Total income tax charge 3.9 10.0 The UK corporation tax rate of 19%, effective from 1 April 2017, was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
A reduction to this rate to 17%, effective from 1 April 2020, was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2018 have been calculated based on these rates.
Non-deductible expenses in the prior year are higher due to the tax effect of non-deductible expenses incurred on the acquisition of the EQ US business.
The current year tax charge has been reduced by a derivative loss on a deal contingent forward used to hedge the consideration in US dollars for EQ US.
The prior year tax charge was also higher due to the tax effect of the change in tax rates applied to deferred tax from 18% to 17%.
179 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 8.2 DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Recognised assets Deferred income tax assets are attributable to the following: 2018 2017 m m Property, plant and equipment 1.6 2.8 Employee benefits and other timing differences 9.4 8.2 Tax value of losses carried forward 36.0 38.0 Tax assets 47.0 49.0 Net of tax liabilities 23.4 22.2 Net tax assets 23.6 26.8 Recognised liabilities Deferred income tax liabilities are attributable to the following: 2018 2017 m m Intangible assets 23.4 22.2 Tax liabilities 23.4 22.2 Net of tax assets 23.4 22.2 Net tax liabilities No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 4.8m 2017: 3.8m of gross tax losses due to uncertainty in terms of future recoverability.
The Group has no other unrecognised deferred tax assets.
Movements in deferred tax during the year: Opening Recognised Recognised Closing balance Acquisitions in income in equity balance Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 2.8 1.2 1.6 Intangible assets 22.2 0.2 1.0 23.4 Employee benefits and other timing differences 8.2 2.4 1.2 9.4 Tax value of losses carried forward 38.0 2.0 36.0 26.8 0.2 1.8 1.2 23.6 Opening Recognised Recognised Closing balance Acquisitions in income in equity balance Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 3.4 0.6 2.8 Intangible assets 21.7 0.7 0.2 22.2 Employee benefits and other timing differences 4.8 0.9 2.5 8.2 Tax value of losses carried forward 42.6 4.6 38.0 29.1 0.7 4.1 2.5 26.8 180 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 9 OTHER DISCLOSURES 9.1 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS 2018 2017 Non-current m m Derivatives used for hedging note 6.13 0.2 1.9 Total 0.2 1.9 Current Derivatives used for hedging note 6.13 0.5 Total 0.5 Derivatives used for hedging the term loan and variable rate derived interest rate income are classified as a non-current asset, as the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months.
Derivatives used for hedging the exposure to variations in exchange rates are recognised as a current asset, as the forecast transactions denominated in a foreign currency are expected to occur within six months of the year end.
9.2 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2018 2017 Non-current m m Derivatives used for hedging note 6.13 3.6 3.4 Finance lease liabilities 0.6 1.1 Total 4.2 4.5 Current Derivatives used for hedging note 6.13 5.8 Finance lease liabilities 0.5 0.6 Total 0.5 6.4 Derivatives used for hedging the term loan and variable rate derived interest rate income are classified as a non-current liability, as the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months.
Derivatives used for hedging the exposure to variations in exchange rates are recognised as a current liability, as the forecast transactions denominated in a foreign currency are expected to occur within six months of the year end.
9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Defined contribution pension plans The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the year was 8.5m 2017: 7.3m.
Defined benefit pension plans The Group operates three funded defined benefit pension plans in the UK.
All of the plans are final salary pension plans and provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension, payable for life.
The liability under all schemes is based on final salary and length of service to the employer.
The assets of the schemes are held independently of the Groups assets, in separate trustee-administered funds.
The Trustees of the pension funds are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders.
The net liability of the three schemes is set out below: 2018 2017 m m ICS Pension Scheme 1.7 1.5 Paymaster Pension Scheme 20.2 20.1 Prudential Platinum Pension MyCSP Limited 1.0 1.1 Total defined benefit pension plan net liability 22.9 22.7 181 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED Full actuarial valuations are performed every three years which determines the funding required to eliminate the net pension plan liabilities.
The latest full valuations took place in 2018 and will conclude in 2019.
All pension schemes have been closed to new members for a number of years and all schemes are now closed to future accrual, apart from a small sub-section of the Paymaster Pension Scheme.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation consists of approximately 3.4m 2017: 3.7m relating to active employees, 41.1m 2017: 54.2m relating to deferred members and 32.5m 2017: 22.8m relating to members in retirement.
The investment strategy of the plans are set taking into account a number of factors including the profile and value of plan liabilities, the strength of the employer covenant and the long-term funding objectives agreed with the employer.
The schemes have a broad allocation of investments in return-seeking assets with the remaining allocated to liability matching assets, designed to partially offset the movements in the scheme liabilities caused by movements in interest rates and inflation.
The asset split reflects the Trustees view of the most appropriate investments balancing risk reward characteristics of the funds the Scheme is invested in.
Pension plan assets are valued at fair value.
Quoted equities and debt instruments on a recognised stock exchange are valued at the closing market price as at the valuation date.
Exchange traded and over-the-counter derivative instruments are valued at the settlement price or at the latest valuation for such instruments on the valuation date.
Cash and other illiquid assets will be valued at their face value plus accrued interest at the valuation date.
The Group is exposed to a number of risks through its defined benefit pension plans, the most significant of which are described below: Investment risk Scheme growth assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of debt securities, equities and other return-seeking assets such as pooled private markets fund.
If the assets underperform the discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit obligation, it will increase the net pension plan liabilities.
Interest rate risk A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is likely to be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond liability driven investment holdings.
Inflation risk The majority of the liabilities are linked to inflation, although in most cases, caps on the level of inflation increases are in place to protect the scheme against extreme inflation.
An increase in inflation rates will lead to higher liabilities, although this is likely to be partially offset by an increase in the value of some of the plans liability-driven investments.
Longevity risk The pension plans provide benefits for the life of the members, therefore increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
The Group and Trustees are aware of these risks and manage them through appropriate investment and funding strategies.
The Trustees manage governance and operational risks through a number of internal control policies, including a risk register.
Defined benefit plan - ICS Pension Scheme A full actuarial valuation was carried out at 5 April 2015 and has since been updated each year end to 31 December 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
2018 2017 m m Present value of obligations 12.3 13.1 Fair value of plan assets 10.6 11.6 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 1.7 1.5 182 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED 2018 2017 Movement in present value of defined benefit obligation m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 13.1 12.6 Past service cost 0.2 Interest cost 0.3 0.3 Actuarial gains losses changes in financial assumptions 0.2 0.6 Actuarial gains losses changes in demographic assumptions 0.1 0.1 Actuarial gains other experience items 0.1 Benefits paid 0.9 0.5 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 12.3 13.1 2018 2017 Movement in fair value of plan assets m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 11.6 11.0 Interest income 0.3 0.3 Loss return on plan assets 0.5 0.7 Employer contributions 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 0.9 0.5 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 10.6 11.6 2018 2017 Expense recognised in the income statement m m Past service cost 0.2 Interest cost 0.3 0.3 Interest income 0.3 0.3 Total expense 0.2 2018 2017 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income m m Cumulative loss at 1 January 3.4 3.4 Actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income 0.1 Cumulative loss at 31 December 3.5 3.4 2018 2017 Plan assets are comprised of the following: m m Equities 2.4 3.3 Corporate bonds 1.0 1.0 Diversified growth funds 2.2 Liability-driven investment funds 2.9 2.9 Illiquid assets 2.4 2.2 Cash 1.9 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 10.6 11.6 183 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: 2018 2017 Discount rate 2.75% 2.62% Rate of increase for pensions in payment: CPI subject to a max of 3.0% pa. 1.93% 1.89% RPI subject to a max of 5.0% pa. 3.07% 3.02% RPI subject to a max of 2.5% pa. 2.17% 2.15% Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 2.15% 2.09% Inflation assumption 3.15% 3.09% Weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables 100% SAPS S2PMA, 100% SAPS S2FA, 100% SAPS S2PA CMI 2017, 1% long-term trend used to determine benefit obligations at 31 December 2018: Male Female Member age 65 current life expectancy 86.8 88.7 Member age 45 life expectancy at 65 87.9 89.9 Contributions Equiniti ICS Limited expects to contribute 0.2m to its pension plan in 2019.
Defined benefit plan Paymaster Pension Scheme A full actuarial valuation was carried out at 5 April 2015 and has since been updated each year end to 31 December 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
2018 2017 m m Present value of obligations 57.5 59.6 Fair value of plan assets 37.3 39.5 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 20.2 20.1 2018 2017 Movement in present value of defined benefit obligation m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 59.6 57.9 Current service cost 0.1 0.2 Past service cost 0.2 Interest cost 1.6 1.6 Actuarial gains losses change in financial assumptions 3.8 0.8 Actuarial losses other experience items 1.6 0.7 Benefits paid 1.8 1.6 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 57.5 59.6 184 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED 2018 2017 Movement in fair value of plan assets m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 39.5 37.0 Interest income 1.0 1.0 Loss return on plan assets 2.4 2.1 Employer contributions 1.0 1.0 Benefits paid 1.8 1.6 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 37.3 39.5 2018 2017 Expense recognised in the income statement m m Current service cost 0.1 0.2 Past service cost 0.2 Interest cost 1.6 1.6 Interest income 1.0 1.0 Total expense 0.9 0.8 2018 2017 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income m m Cumulative loss at 1 January 21.4 22.0 Actuarial losses gains recognised in other comprehensive income 0.2 0.6 Cumulative loss at 31 December 21.6 21.4 2018 2017 Plan assets are comprised of the following: m m Private equity and diversified growth funds 12.0 21.0 Liability-driven investment funds 9.3 9.6 Illiquid assets 8.8 8.2 Cash and other 7.2 0.7 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 37.3 39.5 185 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: 2018 2017 Discount rate 3.00% 2.66% Rate of compensation increase 1.50% 1.50% Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.10% 3.08% Rate of increase for pensions in deferment Pre 6 April 2009 service : Pre 6 April 2009 3.10% 3.08% Post 6 April 2009 2.10% 2.08% Rate of increase for pensions in deferment Post 6 April 2009 service 2.50% 2.50% Inflation assumption 3.10% 3.08% Weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables 96% SAPS S2PMA, 84% SAPS S2PFA CMI 2017, 1% long-term trend used to determine benefit obligations at 31 December 2018 Male Female Member age 65 current life expectancy 86.7 89.8 Member age 45 life expectancy at 65 87.9 91.1 Contributions Paymaster 1836 Limited expects to contribute 0.9m to its pension plan in 2019.
Defined benefit plan Prudential Platinum Pension MyCSP Limited The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out at 31 December 2015 and has since been updated to 31 December 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
2018 2017 m m Present value of obligations 7.2 8.0 Fair value of plan assets 6.2 6.9 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 1.0 1.1 2018 2017 Movement in present value of defined benefit obligation m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 8.0 13.8 Interest cost 0.2 0.3 Actuarial gains losses changes in financial assumptions 0.8 0.1 Actuarial gains changes in demographic assumptions 0.1 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 5.9 Benefits paid 0.2 0.2 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 7.2 8.0 2018 2017 Movement in fair value of plan assets m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 6.9 12.4 Interest income 0.2 0.3 Loss return on plan assets 0.7 0.2 Employer contributions 0.1 0.1 Assets distributed on settlements 5.8 Benefits paid 0.2 0.2 Administration expenses 0.1 0.1 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 6.2 6.9 186 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED 2018 2017 Expense recognised in the income statement m m Administration expenses 0.1 0.1 Interest cost 0.2 0.3 Interest income 0.2 0.3 Total expense 0.1 0.1 2018 2017 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income m m Cumulative loss at 1 January 1.4 1.6 Actuarial gain recognised in other comprehensive income 0.1 0.2 Cumulative loss at 31 December 1.3 1.4 2018 2017 Plan assets are comprised of the following: m m Overseas equities 1.5 0.6 Corporate bonds 2.8 4.0 Diversified growth fund 1.8 2.3 Cash 0.1 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 6.2 6.9 Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: 2018 2017 Discount rate 3.10% 2.68% Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.07% 2.06% Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 2.07% 2.06% Inflation assumption 3.07% 3.06% Weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables 100% SAPS S2PMA, 100% SAPS S2PFA, 100% SAPS S2PxA CMI 2017, 1% long-term trend used to determine benefit obligations at 31 December 2018: Male Female Member age 65 current life expectancy 86.8 88.7 Member age 45 life expectancy at 65 87.9 89.9 Contributions MyCSP Limited does not expect to make contributions to the scheme in 2019 except to cover the administration expenses of maintaining the scheme.
Sensitivity analysis Estimates of the discount rate, inflation rate and life expectancy are used in calculating the pension obligation.
The total effect on the employee benefit liability on all schemes as at 31 December 2018 of an increase in life expectancy by one year would be an increase of 2.6m 2017: 2.9m, a 0.5% decrease in the discount rate used would be an increase of 6.0m 2017: 8.6m, and a 0.5% increase in the inflation assumption would be an increase of 6.0m 2017: 7.6m.
These individual sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
187 Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 9.4 OPERATING LEASES Future aggregate minimum lease payments, relating primarily to the Groups premises, are payable as follows: 2018 2017 m m Less than one year 7.0 5.8 Between one and five years 26.1 17.6 More than five years 21.3 21.1 Total 54.4 44.5 9.5 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Company, along with other companies in the Group, has provided a guarantee in relation to a Senior Facilities Agreement comprising a term loan and revolving credit facility made available to Equiniti Holdings Limited.
The facilities comprise term loan facilities of 250.0m and US$92.0m, and a multicurrency revolving credit facility of 199.0m, of which the drawn balance was 76.7m at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Both facilities are repayable in 2020.
9.6 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE There have been no material events between 31 December 2018 and the date of authorisation of the consolidated financial statements that would require adjustments of the consolidated financial statements or disclosure.
188 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2018 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 9.7 RESTATEMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNDER IFRS 15 The impact from adopting IFRS 15 on the Groups income statement was as follows: Re-measureAs reported ments Restated Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m Revenue 406.1 0.2 406.3 Administrative costs 318.1 0.5 318.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5.7 5.7 Amortisation of software 18.3 18.3 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 26.7 26.7 Finance income 0.8 0.8 Finance costs 12.5 12.5 Profit before income tax 25.6 0.3 25.3 Income tax charge 10.0 10.0 Profit for the year 15.6 0.3 15.3 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent 11.9 0.3 11.6 Non-controlling interests 3.7 3.7 Profit for the year 15.6 0.3 15.3 Earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent: Basic earnings per share pence 3.6 0.1 3.5 Diluted earnings per share pence 3.6 0.1 3.5 Adjustments were made to the amounts recognised in the statement of financial position at the date of adoption 1 January 2018, to reflect the reclassifications to contract fulfilment assets and contract fulfilment liabilities.
Re-measurement changes were made to contract fulfilment assets through recognition of additional accrued income and contract delivery costs, and to contract fulfilment liabilities through recognition of additional deferred income.
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 15, the Group has restated comparatives for the 2017 financial year and below is a summary of the changes: IAS 18 carrying  15 carrying value fications ments value Balance sheet extract as at 31 December 2017 m m m m Trade and other receivables 80.3 35.8 44.5 Contract fulfilment assets 35.8 2.1 37.9 Trade and other payables 96.0 15.2 80.8 Contract fulfilment liabilities 15.2 1.0 16.2 The impact on the Groups retained earnings as at 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2017 was as follows: As at 1 January As at 1 January 2018 2017 m m Retained earnings as reported 196.8 193.6 Change in timing of revenue recognition 1.0 1.2 Recognition of asset for costs to fulfil a contract 2.1 2.6 Opening retained earnings IFRS 15 197.9 195.0 189
