Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU in accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 adopted IFRS and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its individual company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 : these are presented on pages 156 to 166.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives which are stated at fair value and retirement benefit obligations which are valued in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The preparation of financial statements that conform with adopted IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
For the purposes of these financial statements Essentra or the Group means Essentra plc the Company and its subsidiaries.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods if relevant.
On 14 January 2019, Essentra disposed of its Pipe Protection Technologies business PPT for US$48.0m 37.5m, free of cash and debt.
The assets and liabilities of PPT have been presented as held for sale on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2018.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial statements are detailed below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented.
Information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 42 and 43.
In addition, note 18 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk.
Cash balances and borrowings are detailed in note 21.
Essentra is primarily funded by a series of US Private Placement Loan Notes from various financial institutions totalling US$155m and syndicated multi-currency five-year revolving credit facilities of 285.0m and 100.8m from its banks.
The series of Loan Notes have original maturities ranging from seven to twelve years and the revolving credit facilities mature in November 2022.
At 31 December 2018, the available bank facilities totalled 375.0m 2017: 374.2m of which 193.1m 2017: 155.9m was drawn down.
In addition, uncommitted and overdraft facilities are maintained to provide short-term flexibility.
The Directors have prepared plans and forecasts for a period of at least twelve months from the date of signing these financial statements.
Based on these, and taking into consideration the risks detailed in note 18, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code.
Changes in accounting policies In the current financial year, Essentra adopted the following pronouncements: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers, and provides a more structured approach to measurement and recognition of revenue.
The review of the impact of IFRS 15 requires an assessment of each revenue stream and review of contracts and or supply agreements in place with our customers in order to establish and confirm the full impact of adopting this standard.
Based on the review and assessment undertaken, management concludes that the new standard did not have a material impact on revenue recognition for the Group, given the nature of products and services offered by the Group.
The following areas were specifically considered by the Group: Revenue continue to be recognised net of any trade discount or rebate schemes and any anticipated warranty liabilities, there is no material change under the new standard to the calculation of liabilities arising from rebate schemes or product warranties.
In a small number of instances, Essentra provides services to the customers in addition to the supply of goods.
Where previously revenue was only recognised on the supply of goods under IFRS 15, an element of revenue is now attributed to the additional services provided where these are distinct from the goods being supplied.
The total value of revenue attributable to such services is not significant.
The incremental costs of obtaining a contract will be recognised as an asset if the Group expects to recover those costs.
These costs were not significant in the past, and are not expected to be significant going forward.
Where a customer has committed to purchase goods in advance of production, revenue may be recognised on production rather than on transfer of control to the customer.
Such arrangements are rare and insignificant to the total Group revenue.
The individual and aggregate impact of the above is not material to the Group.
116 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 116 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Accounting Policies a.
Basis of preparation continued The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Standards as adopted by the European Union EU in accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 adopted IFRS and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting and replaces International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and with those parts of the Companies IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
The standard became effective from 1 January 2018.
Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its individual company financial statements in Impairment: As at 31 December 2017, financial assets were assessed for impairment using the IAS 39 incurred loss model.
Following the adoption accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 : these are presented on pages 156 to 166. of IFRS 9, this was replaced with the expected credit loss model which requires expected credit losses and changes to expected credit losses at The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives which are stated at fair value and retirement each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair value to other benefit obligations which are valued in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
comprehensive income FVOCI will be subject to the impairment provisions of IFRS 9.
The Group applies the simplified model to recognise lifetime expected credit losses for its trade receivables and other receivables, including those due in greater than 12 months, by making an accounting The preparation of financial statements that conform with adopted IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported policy election.
The expected loss rate estimated for each ageing period is as follows: Current: 0.5%, Overdue 1-30 days: 1%, Overdue 31-60 days: amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting 5%, Overdue 61-90 days: 10%, Overdue 91-180 days: 25%, Overdue 181-360 days: 50% and Overdue over 360 days: 100%.
The quantitative impact of IFRS 9 on the groups retained earnings at 1 January 2018 relating to the increase in provision for trade receivables is 2.3m.
The loss allowance at 31 December 2017 under IAS 39 was 4.5m.
Hedging: The hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 align hedge accounting relationships with the Groups risk management objectives The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period and strategy and lead to the application of a more qualitative and forward-looking approach to assessing hedge effectiveness.
The Group uses in which the estimate is revised and future periods if relevant.
derivatives to manage currency arising from underlying business activities.
The Groups hedge relationships under the previous IAS 39 continue On 14 January 2019, Essentra disposed of its Pipe Protection Technologies business PPT for US$48.0m 37.5m, free of cash and debt.
to qualify as accounting hedges upon the adoption of IFRS 9.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption allowing it not to restate comparative information for prior periods with respect to classification The accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial statements are detailed below.
These policies have been consistently applied and measurement including impairment changes under IFRS 9.
Differences in the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities to all periods presented.
resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 are therefore recognised in retained earnings and reserves as at 1 January 2018.
Information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial The following standards or interpretations have not yet been adopted by the Group.
In addition, note 18 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing IFRS 16 Leases its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and exposures to credit, market and IFRS 16 Leases which is effective from 1 January 2019, eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and liquidity risk.
Cash balances and borrowings are detailed in note 21. introduces a single lessee accounting model under which a lessee is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more Essentra is primarily funded by a series of US Private Placement Loan Notes from various financial institutions totalling US$155m and syndicated than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value, and present depreciation of leased right-of-use assets separately from interest as multi-currency five-year revolving credit facilities of 285.0m and 100.8m from its banks.
The series of Loan Notes have original maturities ranging a result of unwinding of discount on lease liabilities in the income statement.
from seven to twelve years and the revolving credit facilities mature in November 2022.
At 31 December 2018, the available bank facilities totalled The Group has performed the impact assessment of adopting this accounting standard, which involved collating information on 375.0m 2017: 374.2m of which 193.1m 2017: 155.9m was drawn down.
In addition, uncommitted and overdraft facilities are maintained lease obligations and contractual arrangements across the Group.
This data was then used to compare the impact of the new standard under to provide short-term flexibility.
Based The Group has decided to select the modified retrospective approach on transition primarily on grounds of practicality.
Under this approach, on these, and taking into consideration the risks detailed in note 18, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate comparative information is not restated and the impact of adopting IFRS 16 will be presented as an opening retained earnings adjustment as resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the at 1 January 2019. consolidated financial statements.
Under this transition option a methodology for determining the incremental borrowing rate has been developed to calculate the initial lease liability for each lease.
This methodology incorporates three key elements: risk-free rate reflecting specific country and currency, credit spread reflecting Changes in accounting policies the specific risk for each subsidiary within the Group and an asset class adjustment reflecting the variation in risk between asset categories.
In the current financial year, Essentra adopted the following pronouncements: Approximately 80% of the Groups future lease obligations under IAS17 relate to property leases and as a consequence makes up the majority IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers of the impact of adopting IFRS 16.
A key judgement in determining the right-of-use asset and lease liability is establishing whether it is IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers establishes a new five-step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with reasonably certain that an option to extend the lease will be exercised.
Distinguishing whether a lease will be extended or otherwise will have customers, and provides a more structured approach to measurement and recognition of revenue.
The review of the impact of IFRS 15 requires a material impact on the value of the right of use assets and lease liabilities recognised on the balance sheet, but will not have a material impact an assessment of each revenue stream and review of contracts and or supply agreements in place with our customers in order to establish and on the income statement.
confirm the full impact of adopting this standard.
The Group will elect to use the exemptions proposed by the standard on lease contracts for which the lease terms ends within 12 months as Based on the review and assessment undertaken, management concludes that the new standard did not have a material impact on revenue of the date of initial application and lease contracts for which the underlying asset is of low value.
The Group has leases of certain equipment recognition for the Group, given the nature of products and services offered by the Group.
e. g. printing and photocopying machines that are considered of low value.
The following areas were specifically considered by the Group: Transition to IFRS 16 Revenue continue to be recognised net of any trade discount or rebate schemes and any anticipated warranty liabilities, there is no material During 2018, the Group has performed a detailed impact assessment of adopting IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019.
In summary the impact of IFRS 16 change under the new standard to the calculation of liabilities arising from rebate schemes or product warranties.
adoption is estimated as follows: In a small number of instances, Essentra provides services to the customers in addition to the supply of goods.
116 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES ESSEN ESSEN TRA TR P A P LCLC AN AN NU NA UL A R L R EPE O PR O TR 2T 2 018 018 1 11 17 7 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued a.
Basis of preparation continued Estimated impact on the balance sheet increase decrease as at 31 December 2018: m Assets Right-of-use assets 38.9 Prepayments and deferred income 0.4 Liabilities Lease liabilities 55.4 Onerous lease provision 7.6 Accruals and deferred income 2.9 Net deferred tax liabilities 1.2 Net impact on equity 5.2 Estimated impact on the income statement increase decrease in profit for 2018: m Depreciation expense 9.7 Operating lease expense 11.8 Operating profit 2.1 Finance costs 2.2 Income tax expense 0.1 Impact on profit after tax for the year -- - Under IFRS 16, the Groups operating profit will increase, while its interest expense will increase.
This is due to the change in the accounting for expenses of leases that were previously classified as operating leases under IAS 17.
Other standards and interpretations The Group also adopted the following new pronouncements during 2018, which did not have any impact on the Groups financial statement: Narrow-scope amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment -- -Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions provide guidance on the accounting for the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payments, share-based payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations and modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment that changes the classification of the transaction from cash-settled to equity-settled.
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Considerations addresses the exchange rates to be used for advance consideration paid or received in a foreign currency.
Amendments to IAS 40 Transfer of Investment Property clarify the accounting requirements on transfers to or from investment property.
The following pronouncements will be adopted by the Group from 1 January 2019.
The Group does not currently expect the adoption of the following standards or interpretations to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments addressed how to reflect uncertainty in accounting for income taxes, providing guidance on considering uncertain tax treatments separately or together, examination by tax authorities, the appropriate method to reflect uncertainty and accounting for changes in facts and circumstances.
Amendments to IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement specify that in the event of a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement during a reporting period, an entity is required to use updated information to determine current service cost and net interest for the period following such an event.
118 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 118 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued a.
Basis of consolidation Estimated impact on the balance sheet increase decrease as at 31 December 2018: i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Essentra.
Control exists when Essentra is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement m with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Assets Right-of-use assets 38.9 ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Prepayments and deferred income 0.4 Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Liabilities c. Foreign currency Lease liabilities 55.4 Onerous lease provision 7.6 Items included in the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment Accruals and deferred income 2.9 in which the subsidiary operates functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in sterling functional currency of the parent company.
Net deferred tax liabilities 1.2 Net impact on equity 5.2 i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated Estimated impact on the income statement increase decrease in profit for 2018: in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date and recognised in the income statement unless hedge accounting criteria apply see policy for financial instruments.
m ii Financial statements of foreign operations Depreciation expense 9.7 The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling Operating lease expense 11.8 at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average Operating profit 2.1 exchange rates.
Finance costs 2.2 iii Net investment in foreign operations Income tax expense 0.1 Exchange differences on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening balances of overseas entities are taken to other comprehensive income, Impact on profit after tax for the year -- - as are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and derivatives designated as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are effective.
Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Differences arising prior to 1 January 2004 are included Under IFRS 16, the Groups operating profit will increase, while its interest expense will increase.
This is due to the change in the accounting for in retained earnings.
expenses of leases that were previously classified as operating leases under IAS 17. d. Financial instruments Other standards and interpretations The Group also adopted the following new pronouncements during 2018, which did not have any impact on the Groups financial statement: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and other financial liabilities excluding derivatives are held at amortised cost, unless they are included in a hedge accounting relationship.
See note 14 for separate disclosure of hedge types.
Narrow-scope amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment -- -Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions provide guidance on the accounting for the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payments, Derivatives are measured initially at fair value.
Subsequent measurement in the financial statements depends on the classification of the derivative share-based payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations and modification to the terms and conditions as follows: of a share-based payment that changes the classification of the transaction from cash-settled to equity-settled.
i Fair value hedges IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Considerations addresses the exchange rates to be used for advance consideration paid Where a derivative is used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a monetary asset or liability, any gain or loss on the derivative is recognised or received in a foreign currency.
ii Cash flow hedges The following pronouncements will be adopted by the Group from 1 January 2019.
The Group does not currently expect the adoption of the Where a derivative is designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, the change in fair value is recognised in other comprehensive following standards or interpretations to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
income to the extent that it is effective and any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Where the underlying transaction results in a financial asset, accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period as the hedged item affects profit IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments addressed how to reflect uncertainty in accounting for income taxes, providing guidance on or loss.
Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive considering uncertain tax treatments separately or together, examination by tax authorities, the appropriate method to reflect uncertainty and income are included in the initial carrying value of the asset.
accounting for changes in facts and circumstances.
Amendments to IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement specify that in the event of a plan amendment, curtailment or settlement iii Hedges of net investment in foreign operations during a reporting period, an entity is required to use updated information to determine current service cost and net interest for the period The gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is deemed effective is recognised in other following such an event.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
118 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES ESSEN ESSEN TRA TR A P PLC LC AN AN NN UA UL A R L R EP E O PR O TR 2 T 2 018 018 11 119 9 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued e. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Previously revalued properties were treated as being held at deemed cost upon transition to adopted IFRS.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment or other assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Freehold land Not depreciated Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 7--20% - Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10--33% - The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
f. Leases Rentals associated with operating leases are expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are amortised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
g. Intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
For acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the assets given in consideration and the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
Since 1 January 2010, the Group has expensed costs attributable to acquisitions in the income statement.
Given their one-off nature, these costs are generally presented within exceptional and other adjusting items.
ii Research and development Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Development costs relating to new products are capitalised when the Group is able to demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the asset and the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
iii Other intangible assets An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised at fair value to the extent it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets principally relate to customer relationships, which are valued using discounted cash flows based on historical customer attrition rates, and developed technology, which is valued using an income approach.
The cost of intangible assets is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life.
Other intangible assets which are not acquired through a business combination non-acquired intangible assets are recognised at cost to the extent it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably, and amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life.
h. Impairment All assets are reviewed regularly to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of a non-financial asset or the cash generating unit to which it belongs exceeds its recoverable amount, being the greater of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, and is recognised in the income statement.
Value in use is estimated based on future cash flows discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value.
For work-in-progress and finished goods, cost includes an appropriate proportion of labour cost and overheads.
120 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 120 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued e. Property, plant and equipment j.
Cash and cash equivalents Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Previously revalued properties were Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and fixed-term investments whose maturities are three months or less from the date of treated as being held at deemed cost upon transition to adopted IFRS.
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand form an integral part of Essentras cash management and are included as part of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for impairment when events or changes in k. Loans and borrowings circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful lives on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Loans and borrowings are initially measured at cost which is equal to fair value at inception and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Freehold land Not depreciated Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter l. Trade and other receivables Plant and machinery 7--20% - Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, which is generally equivalent to recognition Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10--33% - at nominal value less impairment loss calculated using the expected loss model.
The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
m. Trade and other payables f. Leases Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Rentals associated with operating leases are expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are amortised in the n. Catalogue costs income statement over the life of the lease.
The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues are expensed to the income statement when access is received to those goods.
Income tax i Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
For acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the that it relates to items recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
difference between the fair value of the assets given in consideration and the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using the applicable tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the of the acquiree.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
previously recorded under UK GAAP.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases and the carrying Since 1 January 2010, the Group has expensed costs attributable to acquisitions in the income statement.
Given their one-off nature, these costs amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible are generally presented within exceptional and other adjusting items.
for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that ii Research and development are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset or liability is settled, using the applicable tax rates enacted or substantively enacted Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
at the balance sheet dates.
Development costs relating to new products are capitalised when the Group is able to demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the asset can the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefits will be realised.
will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the asset and the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
iii Other intangible assets An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised at fair value to the extent it is probable that the expected future economic p. Revenue benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets principally relate to customer relationships, which are valued using discounted cash flows based on historical customer attrition rates, and developed technology, which is valued Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net of expected discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, price concessions using an income approach.
The cost of intangible assets is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated or other similar items, when the associated performance obligation has been satisfied, and control of the goods has been transferred to the useful economic life.
Other intangible assets which are not acquired through a business combination non-acquired intangible assets are customer.
recognised at cost to the extent it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that A significant part of the Groups businesses sell goods on an ex-works basis, where the Group as seller makes its goods ready for collection at its its cost can be measured reliably, and amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life.
premises on an agreed upon sales date and the buyer incurs all transportation and handling costs and bears the risks for bringing the goods to their chosen destination.
h. Impairment Where the Group operates non ex-works terms with customers, revenue is recognised when the control of the goods has been transferred to the customer.
All assets are reviewed regularly to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
These terms include consignment stock agreements, where revenue is recognised upon the customer removing goods from consignment stock.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of a non-financial asset or the cash generating unit to which it belongs exceeds Under IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, each customer arrangement contract is assessed to identify the performance obligations being its recoverable amount, being the greater of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, and is recognised in the income statement.
Value in use provided to the customer.
Where distinct performance obligations are deemed to exist, an element of revenue is apportioned to that obligation.
is estimated based on future cash flows discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Inventories Finance income and expense is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value.
120 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES ESSEN ESSEN TRA TR A P PLCLC AN AN NU NA UL A R L R EPE O PR O TR 2 T 2 018 018 12 121 1 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued r. Segment reporting A segment is identified on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Group Management Committee in order to allocate resources to the segment and assess its performance.
s. Pensions i Defined contribution schemes Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit schemes The significant pension schemes in Europe and the USA have been accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of Essentras obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Net interest on defined benefit assets is presented within finance income, and net interest on defined benefit liabilities is presented within finance expense.
Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost including curtailments and gains and losses on settlement.
The value of a net pension asset is limited to the amount that may be recovered either through reduced contributions or agreed refunds from the scheme.
t. Share-based payments Essentra operates equity-settled, share-based incentive plans.
A charge is made in the income statement based on the fair value of option awards using the Monte Carlo or binomial valuation models and relevant quoted share price information with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant date and vesting date of the options.
The amount recognised as an expense will be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest with the exception of options that fail to vest because market conditions are not met.
Exceptional and other adjusting items The exceptional and other adjusting items are separately presented from other items by virtue of their nature, size and or incidence considered for each operating segment.
They are shown as a separate line item within operating profit on the face of the income statement in order for the reader to obtain a clearer understanding of the underlying results of the ongoing Groups operations, by excluding the impact of items which, in managements view, do not form part of the Groups underlying operating results, such as gains, losses or costs arising from business acquisition and disposal activities, significant restructuring and closure costs and other items which are non-recurring or one-off in nature such as the costs of fundamental strategic review and reorganisation.
Operating profit before exceptional and other adjusting items and acquired intangible amortisation is called adjusted operating profit, which forms the primary basis of managements review and assessment of operational performance of the Groups businesses.
i Gains losses and transaction costs relating to acquisitions and disposals of businesses In 2018, Essentra incurred one-off costs such as professional fees as a result of the acquisitions of Micro Plastics and Hertila and disposals of Swiftbrook and Pipe Protection Technologies refer to note 23.
In 2017, Essentra incurred one-off costs such as professional fees as a result of the acquisitions of Micro Plastics and Kamsri Printing & Packaging PVT and disposal of Porous Technologies.
ii Acquisition integration and restructuring costs Costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses and restructuring associated with acquisitions.
122 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 122 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued r. Segment reporting u.
Exceptional and other adjusting items continued A segment is identified on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Group Management Committee in order to allocate iii Other exceptional items resources to the segment and assess its performance.
In 2018, this represented costs arising from central management team restructuring, Packaging and Specialist Components restructuring closure of the following sites: Largo and Kilmarnock in Packaging and Speciality Tapes Nottingham in Specialist Components, amounts in respect of the strategic review undertaken during the period and associated reorganisation costs, an exceptional past service cost arising from the UK defined s. Pensions benefit scheme see note 17 and an adjustment on contingent deferred considerations on a prior acquisition.
i Defined contribution schemes In 2017, this represented costs arising from the closure of the folded cartons facilities at Newport and amounts in respect of the strategic review Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
undertaken during the period associated reorganisation costs, and an adjustment on contingent deferred considerations on a prior acquisition.
ii Defined benefit schemes v. Investment in own shares The significant pension schemes in Europe and the USA have been accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future The shares held in the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share option plans are treated as benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings.
The cost of shares held directly treasury shares are also deducted from value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that retained earnings.
have maturity dates approximating to the terms of Essentras obligations.
Net interest on defined benefit assets is presented within finance income, and net interest on defined benefit w. Provisions liabilities is presented within finance expense.
A provision is recognised when there is a probable legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate can be made Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
of the outflow of resources that will be required to settle the obligation.
The outflow is the present value of managements best estimate of the The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost including curtailments and gains and losses expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
Government grants The value of a net pension asset is limited to the amount that may be recovered either through reduced contributions or agreed refunds from the scheme.
Government grants are recognised when it is reasonable to expect that the grants will be received and that all related conditions will be met, usually on submission of a valid claim for payment.
Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are included within the carrying amount t. Share-based payments of the related property, plant and equipment, and are released to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets.
Grants of a revenue nature are credited to profit or loss so as to match them with the expenditure to which they relate.
Essentra operates equity-settled, share-based incentive plans.
Net debt value is measured at grant date and spread over the period between grant date and vesting date of the options.
The amount recognised as an expense will be adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest with the exception of options that fail to vest because market Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of interest bearing loans and borrowings.
Exceptional and other adjusting items Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company final dividend or paid The exceptional and other adjusting items are separately presented from other items by virtue of their nature, size and or incidence considered for interim dividend.
They are shown as a separate line item within operating profit on the face of the income statement in order for the reader to obtain a clearer understanding of the underlying results of the ongoing Groups operations, by excluding the impact of items which, in aa.
Assets and disposal groups held for sale and discontinued operations managements view, do not form part of the Groups underlying operating results, such as gains, losses or costs arising from business acquisition and disposal activities, significant restructuring and closure costs and other items which are non-recurring or one-off in nature such as the costs Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, are classified as held-for-sale if it is highly probable that they will be of fundamental strategic review and reorganisation.
Operating profit before exceptional and other adjusting items and acquired intangible recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use.
Such assets, or disposal groups, are generally measured at the lower of their amortisation is called adjusted operating profit, which forms the primary basis of managements review and assessment of operational carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale and subsequent gains and losses on performance of the Groups businesses.
remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss.
i Gains losses and transaction costs relating to acquisitions and disposals of businesses A disposal group qualifies as discontinued operation if it is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for In 2018, Essentra incurred one-off costs such as professional fees as a result of the acquisitions of Micro Plastics and Hertila and disposals of sale, and: Swiftbrook and Pipe Protection Technologies refer to note 23. represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or In 2017, Essentra incurred one-off costs such as professional fees as a result of the acquisitions of Micro Plastics and Kamsri Printing & Packaging is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or PVT and disposal of Porous Technologies.
is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations in the income statement.
122 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES ESSEN ESSEN TRA TRA P PLC LC AA N N NN UU AA L L R REP EO PO RT R 2 T 2 010 818 12 123 3
