Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR report ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Scrap Steam coal V Iron containing recyclable materials mainly All other types of hard coal not classified industrial or household waste that is generally as coking coal.
Coal of this type is also remelted and processed into new steel.
commonly referred to as thermal coal.
Vanadium A grey metal that is normally used as an alloying Semi-finished products agent for iron and steel.
It is also used T The initial product forms in the steel making to strengthen titanium based alloys.
process including slabs, blooms, billets and pipe blanks that are further processed into more Tailings Vanadium pentoxide finished products such as beams, bars, sheets, Also called mine dumps, are the materials left The chemical compound with the formula tubing etc.
over after the process of separating the valuable V2O5: this orange solid is the most important content from the uneconomic remainder compound of vanadium.
Upon heating, Sinter gangue of an ore.
These materials can be it reversibly loses oxygen.
An iron rich clinker formed by heating iron reprocessed using new methods to recover ore fines and coke in a sinter line.
Vanadium slag materials, in pellet form, combine efficiently Vanadium slag produced from pig iron in the blast furnace and allow for more Tubular products in the converter shop and used as a raw material consistent and controllable iron manufacture.
Include large diameter line pipes, ERW pipes by producers of ferroalloys and vanadium and casings, seamless pipes and other tubular products.
A common type of semi-finished steel product which can be further rolled into sheet and plate U products.
Slag Unrealised profit URP Slag is a byproduct generated when non-ferrous Inter-segment unrealised profit or loss URP substances in iron ore, limestone and coke is a change in the sales margin included are separated from the hot metal in metallurgical in balances of inventories purchased production.
Slag is used in cement and fertiliser from segments other than the reportable production as well as for base course material segment between the end and the beginning in road construction.
Contact details Registered Name and Number Secretary Registrars EVRAZ plc Company No.
07784342 Prism Cosec For information about proxy voting, dividends and to report changes Registered Office Investor Relations in personal details, shareholders should 5th Floor, 6 St. Andrew Street, Tel.
London : 44 0 207 832 8990 contact the Companys registrar London EC4A 3AE Tel.
com Computershare Investor Services PLC Directors The Pavilions Alexander Abramov Auditors Bridgwater Road Alexander Frolov Ernst & Young LLP Bristol BS13 8AE Laurie Argo United Kingdom Karl Gruber Solicitors Tel.
: 44 0 870 873 5848 Deborah Gudgeon Linklaters LLP Fax: 44 0 870 703 6101 Alexander Izosimov E-mail: webqueries@computershare.
co. uk Sir Michael Peat Eugene Shvidler Eugene Tenenbaum 267
