Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR report ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Terms and abbreviations CAPEX Crude steel B Capital expenditure.
Steel in its solidified state directly after casting.
This is then further processed by rolling or other Basic oxygen furnace CFR treatments, which can change its properties.
Basic oxygen furnace is a frunace used Cost and freight, the seller must pay the costs in a method of primary steelmaking in which and freight to bring the goods to the port D carbon-rich molten pig iron is made into steel.
However, risk is transferred Blowing oxygen through molten pig iron lowers to the buyer once the goods are loaded the carbon content of the alloy and changes on the vessel.
Insurance for the goods Debottlenecking it into low-carbon steel.
The process is not included.
Increasing capacity of a supply or production is known as basic because fluxes of burnt chain through the modification of existing lime or dolomite, which are chemical bases, Channel equipment or infrastructure to improve are added to promote the removal of impurities U-shaped section for construction.
and protect the lining of the converter.
Coal washing Deposit Beam The process of removing mineral matter An area of coal resources or reserves identified A structural element.
Beams are characterised from coal usually through density separation, by surface mapping, drilling or development.
by their profile the shape of their cross-section.
for coarser coal and using surface chemistry One of the most common types of steel for finer particles.
E beam is the I-beam, also known as H-beam, or W-beam wide-flange beam, or a universal Coke beam column.
Beams are widely used A product made by baking coal without Electric arc furnace in the construction industry and are available oxygen at high temperatures.
Unwanted gases A furnace used in the steelmaking process in various standard sizes, eg 40-k beam, 60Sh are driven out of the coal.
The unwanted gases which heats charged material via an electric arc.
beam, 70Sh beam as mentioned in this report.
can be used as fuels or processed further to recover valuable chemicals.
The resulting F Billet material coke has a strong porous structure A usually square, semi-finished steel product which makes it ideal for use in a blast furnace.
obtained by continuous casting or rolling Feasibility study of blooms.
Sections, rails, wire rod and other Coke battery A comprehensive engineering estimate of all rolled products are made from billets.
A group of coke ovens operating as a unit costs, revenues, equipment requirements and connected by common walls.
and production levels likely to be achieved if Blast furnace a mine is developed.
The study is used to define The blast furnace is the classic production unit Coking coal the technical and economic viability of a project to reduce iron ore to molten iron, known as hot Highly volatile coal used to manufacture coke.
and to support the search for project financing.
It operates as a counter-current shaft system, where iron ore and coke is charged Concentrate Finished products at the top.
While this charge descends towards A product resulting from iron ore coal Products that have completed the bottom, ascending carbon containing gases enrichment, with a high grade of extracted the manufacturing process but have not yet and coke reduces the iron ore to liquid iron.
been sold or distributed to the end user.
To increase efficiency and productivity, hot air often enriched with oxygen is blown into Construction products Flat products or Flat-rolled steel products the bottom of the blast furnace.
In order to save Include beams, channels, angles, rebars, wire Include commodity plate, specialty plate coke, coal or other carbon containing materials rods, wire and other goods.
and other products in flat shape such as sheet, are sometimes injected with this hot air.
Converter By-product A type of furnace that uses pure oxygen G A secondary product which results in the process of producing steel from cast iron from a manufacturing process or chemical or dry mix.
Greenfield Conversion costs The development or exploration of a new project Conversion costs is defined as production costs not previously examined.
C without raw materials and depreciation, incl.
This measure Grinding balls Cash cost of coking coal concentrate is used to monitor segment competitiveness Balls used to grind material by impact Cash cost of coking coal concentrate is defined improvement.
as the production cost less depreciation, incl.
SG&A and Maintenance CAPEX, the result Continuous casting machine is divided by production volumes.
This measure Process whereby molten metal is solidified is used to monitor segment competitiveness into a semi-finished billet, bloom, or slab improvement.
for subsequent rolling in the finishing mills.
265 Annual report & accounts 2018 Lean Pig iron H Lean is philosophy of managing the business The solidified iron produced from a blast furnace that is based on a set of principles that define used for steel production.
In liquid form, pig iron Head-hardened rails the way of work.
High strength rails with head hardened by heat treatment.
Long products Pipe blank Include bars, rods and structural products that A flat sheet of metal, a semi-finished product, Heat-treatment are long rather than flat and are produced sold to pipemakers to manufacture pipes.
A group of industrial and metalworking from blooms or billets.
processes used to alter the physical, Plate and sometimes chemical, properties Longwall A long thin square shaped construction element of a material.
An underground mining process made from slabs.
in which the coal face is dug out by a shearer HiPo and transported above ground by conveyors.
Pulverised coal injection PCI High potential employee.
A cost-reducing technique in iron-making, where LTIFR cheaper coal is prepared to replace normal Lost time injury frequency rate, which represents coking coal in the blast furnace.
The coal I the number of lost time injuries 1 day or more is pulverised into very small particles before of absence divided by the total number of hours injection into the furnace.
Iron ore worked expressed in millions of hours.
Chemical compounds of iron with other R elements, mainly oxygen, silicon, sulphur Lumpy ore or carbon.
Only extremely pure rich iron-oxygen Iron ore between 6mm and 30mm in size.
Lump compounds are used for steelmaking.
is preferred in the blast furnace as its particle Railway products size allows oxygen to circulate around the raw Include rails, rail fasteners, wheels, tyres ISO 14001 materials and melt them efficiently.
and other goods for the railway sector.
The International Standardisation Organisations standard for environmental management Rebar M systems.
Reinforcing bar, a commodity grade steel used to strengthen concrete in highway and building ISO 9001:2008 Model line construction.
Rebar A500SP is a type The International Standardisation Organisations Model line is as a value stream within a single of reinforcing bar that allows for a reduction standard for a quality management system.
facility or operation, provides a focused in the metallic component of reinforced and controlled playground for implementing lean.
concrete, thereby significantly lowering Serve as internal benchmark for the Company.
J The measurement of performance enables the Company to monitor lean implementation.
Rolled steel products JORC Code Products finished in a rolling mill: these include The Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee, Mt bars, rods, plate, beams etc.
which is widely accepted as a standard Million tonnes.
for professional reporting of Mineral Resources Rolling mill and Ore Reserves.
Mtpa A machine which converts semi-finished steel Million tonnes per annum.
into finished steel products by passing them through sets of rotating cylinders which form K the steel into finished products.
Open pit mine A mine working or excavation open to the surface where material is not replaced SG&A L into the mined out areas.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
Labour productivity OCTG pipe Saleable products Labour productivity is defined as labour Oilfield Casing and Tubing Goods or Oil Country Products produced by EVRAZ mines or steel mills costs exclusive of tax divided by production Tubular Goods pipes used in the oil industry.
which are suitable for sale to third parties.
The measurement of performance enables the Company to monitor Self-coverage P labour efficiency.
The raw material requirement of EVRAZ steelmaking facilities compared with coal Ladle furnace Pellet product sales or production of iron ore products The secondary metallurgy vessel used between An enriched form of iron ore shaped into small from own raw materials.
steelmaking and casting operations to allow balls or pellets.
Pellets are used as raw material the composition of molten steel to be brought in the steel making process.
to the required customer specification.
