Strategic report Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR report ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Definitions of selected alternative performance measures The Group uses alternative performance measures considered as an alternative to other measures and therefore comparability may be limited.
The APMs to improve comparability of information of financial position.
EVRAZ calculation of cash current calculation is different from that used between reporting periods and business units, and short-term bank deposits may be different for covenant compliance calculations.
either by adjusting for uncontrollable or onefrom the calculation used by other companies off factors which impact upon IFRS measures and therefore comparability may be limited.
or, by aggregating measures, to aid the user Net debt of this report in understanding the activity taking place across the Groups portfolio.
Total debt Net debt represents total debt less cash and liquid short-term financial assets, including Total debt represents the nominal value of loans those related to disposals classified as held EBITDA and borrowings plus unpaid interest, finance for sale.
Net debt is not a measure under IFRS lease liabilities, loans of assets classified as held and should not be considered as an alternative EBITDA is determined as a segments profit loss for sale, and the nominal effect of cross-currency to other measures of financial position.
EVRAZ from operations adjusted for social and social swaps on principal of rouble-denominated calculation of net debt may be different infrastructure maintenance expenses, impairment notes.
Total debt is not a measure under IFRS from the calculation used by other companies of assets, profit loss on disposal of property, and should not be considered as an alternative and therefore comparability may be limited.
The plant and equipment and intangible assets, to other measures of financial position.
EVRAZ current calculation is different from that used foreign exchange gains losses and depreciation, calculation of total debt may be different for covenant compliance calculations.
from the calculation used by other companies See Note 3 of the consolidated financial statement for additional information Cash and short-term bank deposits calculation, US$ million and reconciliation with IFRS financial statements.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Change Change, % Cash and cash equivalents 1,067 1,466 399 27.2 Free Cash Flow Cash and short-term bank deposits 1,067 1,466 399 27.2 Free Cash Flow represents EBITDA, net of noncash items, less changes in working capital, income tax paid, interest paid and covenant Calculation of total debt, US$ million reset charges, conversion premiums, premiums 31 December 31 December on early repurchase of bonds and realised 2018 2017 Change Change, % gain losses on interest payments under swap Long-term loans, net of current portion 4,186 5,243 1,057 20.2 contracts, interest income and debt issue costs, Short-term loans and current portion of 377 148 229 n a less capital expenditure, including recorded long-term loans in financing activities, purchases of subsidiaries, Add back: Unamortised debt issue costs 20 28 8 28.6 net of cash acquired, proceeds from sale and fair value adjustment to liabilities of disposals classified as held for sale, net assumed in business combination of transaction costs, less purchases of treasury Nominal effect of cross-currency swaps 49 5 44 n a shares for participants of the incentive plans, plus on principal of rouble-denominated notes other cash flows from investing activities.
Finance lease liabilities, including current 6 8 2 25.0 portion Free Cash Flow is not a measure under IFRS Total debt 4,638 5,432 794 14.6 and should not be considered as an alternative to other measures of financial position.
EVRAZ calculation of Free Cash Flow may be different from the calculation used by other companies Calculation of net debt, US$ million and therefore comparability may be limited.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Change Change, % Total debt 4,638 5,432 794 14.6 Cash and short-term bank Cash and cash equivalents 1,067 1,466 399 27.2 deposits Net debt 3,571 3,966 395 10.0 Cash and short-term bank deposits is not a measure under IFRS and should not be 261 Annual report & accounts 2018 CAPEX Calculation of CAPEX, US$ million Capital expenditure CAPEX is cash expenditure 31 December 31 December Change Change, % on property, plant and equipment.
For internal 2018 2017 reporting and analysis, CAPEX includes non-cash Purchases of property, plant and 521 595 75 12.6 transactions related to CAPEX.
equipment and intangible assets Non-cash purchases Note 12 6 8 2 25.0 CAPEX 527 603 76 12.6 Labor productivity, US$ t P S V the result is divided by production volumes Customer focus and S Labor Costs asset and A-category of steel semi-products.
Raw materials cost-cutting effects subsidiaries, exclusive of tax, local currency from EVRAZ coal and iron ore producers on Division consolidation sites with different are accounted for on at-cost-basis.
Costs Each project effect is calculated as an absolute currencies, $ of semi-finished steel products of EVRAZ NTMK, deviation of targeted metri year to year EVRAZ ZSMK are then weighted averaged multiplied by relevant price or volume depending V production volume, tn.
for steel assets: by the total saleable semi-finished products on projects focus.
V metal products shipped production volume.
EVRAZ cash cost index LTIFR Coking coal concentrate cash EVRAZ cash cost index weighted average cost, US$ t The KPI is calculated on a year-to-date basis of production assets ratio between actual for the company employees only.
Cash cost of coking coal concentrate is defined and budgeted cash conversion cost nominated as cost of revenues less depreciation and SG&A, in USD.
LTIFR X1000000 Y the result is divided by sales volumes.
Weight attribution to each production asset X is the total number of occupational injuries is based on its total cash conversion cost weight resulted in lost time among the company Iron ore products cash cost, in a given year and re-calculated annually: employees in the reporting period.
Fatalities % for cash cost production assets: Sales US$ t are not included.
volumescash cost t sum of all production Cash cost of iron ore products is defined assets cash conversion costs Y is the actual total number of manas cost of revenues less depreciation and SG&A, % for conversion cost production assets: hours worked by all company employees the result is divided by sales volumes.
Production volumesconversion cost t in the reporting period.
sum of all production assets cash conversion costs Number of EBS Semi-finished products cash transformations costs, US$ t Number of EBS transformations implemented Cash cost of semi-finished products is defined at the key assets during the reporting year.
as the production cost less depreciation, 262 www.
