Financial statements 11 3 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 1.
Recent accounting developments Experian plc the Company is the ultimate parent company of the There have been no accounting standards, amendments or Experian group of companies Experian or the Group.
Experian is the interpretations eff ective for the first time in these financial statements leading global information services group.
which have had a material impact on the financial statements.
The Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey as a public There are a number of new standards and amendments to existing company limited by shares and is resident in Ireland.
The Companys standards currently in issue but not yet eff ective, including three registered offi ce is at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PX, signi cant standards: Channel Islands.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments London Stock Exchanges Regulated Market and have a Premium Listing.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and There has been no change in this information since the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017.
IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 are eff ective for us for the year ending 31 March 2019 2.
Basis of preparation with IFRS 16 eff ective for us for the year ending 31 March 2020.
The Group financial statements are: IFRS 9 prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: adopted for use in the European Union the EU and IFRS Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 contains a new classi cation and Interpretations Committee interpretations together EU-IFRS measurement approach for financial assets that re ects the business model in which assets are managed and their cash ow characteristics.
prepared on the going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modi ed for the revaluation of available-for-sale Most of the financial assets we hold are measured at amortised cost or financial assets and certain other financial assets and financial fair value through the pro t and loss account FVTPL and no material liabilities change is expected for these assets.
Those investments in the IAS 39 category of available for sale assets will be designated as measured at presented in US dollars, the most representative currency of the fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI, retaining the Groups operations, and generally rounded to the nearest million same financial statement eff ect as under IAS 39. prepared using the principal exchange rates set out in note 9 and IFRS 9 replaces the incurred loss impairment model in IAS 39 with a designed to voluntarily include disclosures in line with those parts forward-looking expected credit loss ECL model.
We will apply the of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9.
No material changes are under IFRS.
expected to our hedge accounting relationships.
The Companys own financial statements are prepared under The Group will apply the classi cation and impairment changes UK accounting standards in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced retrospectively, however we will take advantage of the exemption Disclosure Framework.
allowing no restatement of comparative information for prior periods.
IFRS 9 will require new disclosures, in particular regarding hedge There has been no change in the above information since the Annual accounting, credit risk and ECLs which we are currently assessing.
Report for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The use of critical accounting estimates and management judgment is IFRS 15 required in applying the accounting policies.
Areas involving a higher IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers establishes principles degree of judgment or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about are signi cant to the Group financial statements, are highlighted in the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash ows note5.
arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
IFRS 15 replaces The going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing these all existing revenue requirements in EU-IFRS and applies to all sales financial statements.
The Board has assessed the principal risks and contracts with customers, unless the contracts are in the scope uncertainties and the other matters discussed in connection with the of the accounting standards on leases, insurance contracts and Viability statement, and the directors consider it appropriate to adopt the financial instruments.
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
The Group has undertaken a detailed review of its contracts and revenue recognition procedures to implement the new standard and is now evaluating the additional disclosure requirements that IFRS 15 introduces.
In accordance with the IFRS 15 transition guidance, we will restate our financial results for the year ended 31 March 2018 upon application of the new standard.
While the Group sees a mix of revenue acceleration on some contracts and revenue deferral on other contracts, growth rates are not expected to materially change and there is no eff ect on cash ow.
Experian plc 114 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 3.
Recent accounting developments continued IFRS 16 IFRS 15 is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when IFRS 16 introduces a new on-balance sheet approach for all lease control of goods or services is transferred to the customer and provides payables.
A range of transition options are available: these and potential a single, principles-based five-step revenue recognition model to be disclosures are currently being assessed by the Group.
It is expected applied to all sales contracts.
In implementing IFRS 15, the primary that the discounted value of operating commitments as disclosed will be eff ect is in relation to certain contracts which are predominantly in brought onto the balance sheet in the form of a material right-of-use the Decision Analytics and Credit Services business segments.
This change is not expected to have a material The contracts aff ected represent less than 15% of Group revenue, eff ect on the net assets or pro t of the Group once implemented.
with the eff ect being a change in the period in which multi-year There are no other new standards, amendments to existing standards revenue is recognised.
or interpretations that are not yet eff ective that would be expected to The key change for the Group under IFRS 15 is the introduction of have a material eff ect on the Group.
Such developments are routinely the concept of separately identi able performance obligations and reviewed by the Group and its financial reporting systems are adapted recognising revenue when these have been met and the customer as appropriate.
It will therefore result in fewer of our services being separated unbundled.
We see the largest impacts in the following areas: 4.
Signi cant accounting policies Software licence and delivery services will primarily be accounted The signi cant accounting policies applied are summarised below.
for as a single performance obligation, with revenue recognised They have been applied consistently to both years presented.
The when the combined off ering is delivered to the customer.
We will see explanations of these policies focus on areas where judgment is applied a new distinction in treatment between Experian-hosted solutions or which are particularly important in the financial statements.
For ease revenue spread over the contract term and on-premise software of reference, the content within this note is arranged as follows: licence arrangements revenue recognised on delivery completion.
sections a to d content that applies generally to the preparation of For these contracts we will generally see a delay in recognition of these financial statements: delivery revenue compared to current accounting.
sections e to o balance sheet policies, to be read in conjunction Batch data arrangements which include an ongoing update service with speci c notes as indicated: will be apportioned across each delivery to the customer, rather than apportioned on Experian delivery hours.
sections p to w income statement policies, to be read in conjunction with speci c notes as indicated: and Platform set-up fees across a range of business units will be recognised over the contractual life of the wider service provided to section x the policy and presentation principles adopted for the customer, compared to the current approach of recognition as the disclosing segment information, in accordance with IFRS 8 set-up is delivered.
There are a small number of arrangements where we previously a Basis of consolidation concluded that the Group is acting as Principal recognising revenue and costs on a gross basis and under IFRS 15 guidance we now Experian follows EU-IFRS including: determine that we are acting as an Agent only the fee to which we IFRS 3 Business combinations: are entitled for arranging the promised goods services is recognised as revenue.
These presentational changes have no eff ect on our IFRS 5 Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued reported Benchmark EBIT.
operations: and Certain costs will be deferred as Contract Assets and expensed IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements.
over the period in which the related revenue stream is recognised.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of These costs include sales commissions and labour costs directly the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
relating to an implementation service.
Subsidiaries Our provisional findings are that the eff ect of adopting IFRS 15 is not Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is considered material to the Group.
The estimated adjustment to total transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date equity at 1 April 2018 is a decrease of US$134m.
For the financial year that the Group no longer has control.
All business combinations are ended 31 March 2018, the restatement to an IFRS 15 basis is expected accounted for using the acquisition method.
to result in our revenue and pro t after tax for the financial year being US$78m and US$31m lower respectively than under the previous Intra-Group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions accounting standards.
Our Benchmark operating cash ow will not be between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised aff ected by this restatement and on a full-year basis we do not expect losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of a material eff ect on our future growth rates.
an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries and segments are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2018.
A list of the signi cant subsidiaries is given in note 44 a to these financial statements.
Signi cant accounting policies continued The results and financial position of Group undertakings whose Associates functional currencies are not the US dollar are translated into US dollars Interests in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
as follows: They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group financial statements include Income and expenses are generally translated at the average the Groups share of the pro t or loss and other comprehensive income exchange rate for the year.
Where this average is not a reasonable of equity-accounted investees, until the date on which signi cant approximation of the cumulative eff ect of the rates prevailing on the in uence ceases.
transaction dates, income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions.
Non-controlling interests Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate on The non-controlling interests in the Group balance sheet represent the the balance sheet date.
share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group.
The movement in the year comprises the pro t attributable to such All resulting exchange diff erences are recognised in other interests together with any dividends paid, movements in respect of comprehensive income and as a separate component of equity.
corporate transactions and related exchange diff erences.
On consolidation, exchange diff erences arising from the translation of The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests that do the net investment in Group undertakings whose functional currencies not result in a loss of control as transactions with equity owners of the are not the US dollar, and of borrowings and other currency instruments Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the diff erence designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in Other between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the comprehensive income to the extent that such hedges are eff ective.
carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Tax attributable to those exchange diff erences is taken directly to Other Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also comprehensive income.
When such undertakings are sold, these recorded in equity.
exchange diff erences are recognised in the Group income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments Where put call option agreements are in place in respect of shares held arising on the acquisition of such undertakings are treated as assets and by non-controlling shareholders, the put element of the liability is stated liabilities of the entities and are translated into US dollars at the closing at the net present value of the expected future payments.
are shown as financial liabilities in the Group balance sheet.
The change in the net present value of such options in the year is recognised in the c Fair value estimation Group income statement within net finance costs, while any change in that value attributable to exchange rate movements is recognised We follow EU-IFRS, including IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The fair directly in Other comprehensive income.
values of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities are determined by using market data and established b Foreign currency translation estimation techniques such as discounted cash ow and option valuation models.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based on a We follow EU-IFRS, including IAS 21 The Eff ects of Changes in Foreign comparison of the contractual and year-end exchange rates.
values of other derivative financial instruments are estimated by Transactions and balances discounting the future cash ows to net present values, using Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional appropriate market rates prevailing at the year-end.
currency of the relevant Group undertaking at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, d Impairment of nonfinancial assets monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are We follow EU-IFRS, including IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Assets that retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested annually for Translation diff erences on monetary items are taken to the Group impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are income statement except when recognised in other comprehensive reviewed for impairment when there is an indication that the carrying income, as qualifying net investment hedges or cash ow hedges.
amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised for Translation diff erences on non-monetary available-for-sale financial the amount by which an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable assets are reported as part of the fair value gains or losses in Other amount, which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs of disposal, comprehensive income.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs, determined by the lowest levels for which there are separately identi able cash ows.
Experian plc 11 6 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued Further details on the capitalisation and amortisation policy for the key 4.
Signi cant accounting policies continued asset classi cations within other intangibles are: e Goodwill note 19 Databases capitalised databases, which comprise the data purchase We follow EU-IFRS, including IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
and capture costs of internally developed databases, are amortised over three to seven years.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment, where cost is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an Computer software internal use computer software licences acquisition over the fair value at the date of acquisition of the Groups purchased for internal use are capitalised on the basis of the costs share of identi able net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired.
incurred to purchase and bring into use the speci c software.
Fair values are attributed to the identi able assets, liabilities and These costs are amortised over three to ten years.
contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, re ecting Computer software internally generated costs directly associated their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to with producing identi able and unique software products controlled align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the by the Group, and that will generate economic bene ts beyond one Group.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
year, are recognised as intangible assets.
These costs are amortised An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the over three to ten years.
carrying value of the goodwill exceeds the recoverable amount.
Research expenditure, together with other costs associated with Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and monitored for internal management developing or maintaining computer software programs, is recognised purposes by operating segment.
The allocation is made to those CGUs in the Group income statement as incurred.
or groups of CGUs that are expected to bene t from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Where the recoverable amount g Property, plant and equipment note 21 of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment charge is recognised in the Group income statement.
Items of property, plant and equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value, in accordance Gains and losses on the disposal of an undertaking take account of the with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
Cost includes the original carrying amount of goodwill relating to the undertaking sold, allocated purchase price of the asset and amounts attributable to bringing the where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has f Other intangible assets note 20 substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classi ed as Acquisition intangibles finance leases.
Such leases are capitalised at inception at the lower of Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum capitalised on acquisition at fair value and separately from goodwill, lease payments.
if those assets are identi able separable or arising from legal rights.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: Such assets are referred to as acquisition intangibles in these financial statements.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: Freehold properties over 50 years.
Customer and other relationships over three to 18 years, based on Short leasehold properties over the remaining period of the lease.
managements estimates of the average lives of such relationships, Owned plant and equipment over three to ten years, according to and re ecting their long-term nature.
Technology-based assets are typically Acquired software development over three to eight years, based on depreciated over three to five years, with other infrastructure assets the assets expected life.
depreciated over five to ten years.
Marketing-related assets trademarks and licences over their Plant and equipment held under finance lease agreements over the contractual lives, up to a maximum of 20 years.
lower of the useful life of the equipment and period of the lease.
Marketing-related assets trade names over three to 14 years, based on managements expected retention of trade names within h Trade receivables note 23 the business.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at this value less any provision for impairment.
Where the Other intangibles time value of money is material, receivables are then carried at Other intangibles are capitalised at cost, in accordance with IAS 38. amortised cost using the eff ective interest rate method, less any Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal provision for impairment.
project are capitalised provided that a number of criteria are satis ed.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that A provision for impairment is established when there is objective it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due complete the development and to use or sell the asset, and how the according to their original terms.
Such evidence is based primarily on asset will generate probable future economic bene t. the pattern of cash received, compared to the terms upon which the receivable is contracted.
The amount of the provision is the diff erence The cost of such assets with nite useful economic or contractual lives is between the carrying amount and the value of estimated future cash amortised on a straight-line basis over those lives.
Any charges or credits in respect of such provisions and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances irrecoverable trade receivables are recognised in the Group income indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, the statement, within other operating charges.
carrying values are written down to the higher of fair value less costs of disposal, and value-in-use which is determined by reference to projected future income streams using assumptions in respect of pro tability and growth.
Signi cant accounting policies continued The Group documents the relationship between hedging instrument and i Cash and cash equivalents note 24 hedged item at the hedge inception, and its risk management objective Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, term and call deposits and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions.
The Group also held with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with documents its assessment of whether the derivatives used in hedging original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown transactions are highly eff ective in off setting changes in fair values of within borrowings in current liabilities on the Group balance sheet.
This eff ectiveness testing is performed at every reporting For the purposes of the Group cash ow statement, cash and cash date throughout the life of the hedge to con rm that the hedge remains, equivalents are reported net of bank overdrafts.
and will continue to remain, highly eff ective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer quali es for hedge accounting.
j Financial assets and derivative financial instruments note28 Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are taken to net finance costs over the period of the contracts, together The Group classi es its financial assets into four categories set out with the interest diff erentials re ected in foreign exchange contracts.
below, with the classi cation determined at initial recognition and dependent on the purpose for which such assets are acquired: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recognised in the Group income Loans and receivables statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The ineff ective determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are portion of a fair value hedge is recognised in net finance costs in the included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year Group income statement.
after the balance sheet date which are classi ed as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables Non-hedging derivatives and cash and cash equivalents.
Changes in the fair value of such derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
Cost and income amounts Derivatives used for hedging in respect of derivatives entered into in connection with social security Derivative financial assets used for hedging are included in current obligations on employee share incentive plans, other than amounts of assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet a nancing nature, are charged or credited within labour costs.
Other date, which are classi ed as non-current assets.
Derivatives utilised by costs and changes in the fair value of such derivatives are charged or the Group include interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, foreign credited within nancing fair value remeasurements in the Group exchange contracts and equity swaps.
Assets at fair value through pro t and loss k Trade payables note 25 Assets at fair value through pro t and loss comprise non-hedging derivative financial instruments.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Where the time value of money is material, payables are then carried at amortised cost Available-for-sale financial assets using the eff ective interest rate method.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or not classi ed in the other l Borrowings note 26 financial asset categories.
They are carried at fair value and are included Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of any transaction in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost, assets within one year of the balance sheet date.
except where they are hedged by an eff ective fair value hedge, in which The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its case the carrying value is adjusted to re ect the fair value movements exposures to uctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and associated with the hedged risk.
certain obligations relating to share incentive plans, including social Borrowings are classi ed as non-current to the extent that the Group security obligations.
Instruments used include interest rate swaps, has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least cross-currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
one year after the balance sheet date.
These are recognised as assets or liabilities as appropriate and are classi ed as non-current, unless they mature within one year of the balance sheet date.
m Post-employment bene t assets and obligations note 33 Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their fair fide ned bene t pension arrangements funded plans value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on The post-employment bene t assets and obligations recognised in the whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, Group balance sheet in respect of funded plans comprise the fair value the nature of the hedge relationship.
of plan assets of funded plans less the present value of the related fide ned bene t obligation at that date.
The fide ned bene t obligation The Group designates certain derivatives as fair value hedges, which are is calculated annually by independent quali ed actuaries, using the hedges of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
The Group does projected unit credit method.
not currently enter into cash ow or net investment hedges.
The present value of the fide ned bene t obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash out ows, using market yields on high-quality corporate sterling bonds with maturity terms consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Experian plc 118 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 4.
Signi cant accounting policies continued p Revenue recognition note 8 Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable on the changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the provision of services, net of any sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
This Group statement of comprehensive income.
includes the provision and processing of data, subscriptions to services, software and database customisation and development, and the sale of The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises software licences, maintenance and related consulting services.
the cost of bene ts accrued plus interest on the opening net fide ned bene t obligation.
Service costs and nancing income and expenses are Revenue in respect of the provision and processing of data is recognised recognised separately in the Group income statement.
Plan expenses in the period in which the service is provided.
Subscription revenues, are deducted from the expected return on the plan assets over the year.
and revenues in respect of services to be provided by an indeterminate number of acts over a speci ed period of time, are recognised on a fide ned bene t pension arrangements unfunded plans straight-line basis over those periods.
Customisation, development Unfunded pension obligations are determined and accounted for and consulting revenues are recognised by reference to the stage of in accordance with the principles used in respect of the funded completion of the work, which is generally on the basis of costs incurred arrangements.
to date as a percentage of estimated total costs.
Revenue from software licences is recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance fide ned contribution pension arrangements agreements is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the The assets of fide ned contribution plans are held separately in maintenance period.
The pension cost recognised in the Where a single arrangement comprises a number of elements which are Group income statement represents the contributions payable by the capable of operating independently of one another, the total revenues Group to these funds, in respect of the year.
are allocated amongst the elements, based on an estimate of the fair Post-retirement healthcare obligations value of each element.
Where the elements are not capable of operating Obligations in respect of post-retirement healthcare plans are calculated independently, or reasonable measures of fair value for each element annually by independent quali ed actuaries, using an actuarial are not available, total revenues are recognised on a straight-line basis methodology similar to that for the funded fide ned bene t pension over the contract period, to re ect the timing of services performed.
Sales are typically invoiced in the geographic area in which the Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, customer is located.
As a result, the geographic location of the invoicing and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the Group undertaking is used to attribute revenue to individual countries.
The cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises only interest on the obligation.
q Operating charges Operating charges are reported by nature in the Group income n Own shares note 37 statement, re ecting the Groups cost-management control structure.
The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based employee Details of the types of charges within labour costs in respect of share incentive plans.
In connection with these, shares in the Company are incentive plans are set out in note t below.
Those for post-employment held by The Experian plc Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK bene ts are set out in note m above.
The assets of these entities mainly comprise Experian plc shares, which are shown as a deduction from Details of the Groups amortisation and depreciation policy are given in equity at cost.
The principles upon which impairment charges are recognised are set out in notes d and e above.
Shares in the Company purchased and held as treasury shares, in connection with the above plans and any share purchase programme, Payments made under operating leases are charged in the Group are also shown as a deduction from equity at cost.
The par value of income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
shares in the Company that are purchased and cancelled, in connection Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction with any share purchase programme, is accounted for as a reduction in of the charge over the lease period.
called-up share capital, with any cost in excess of that amount being deducted from retained earnings.
r Net finance costs note 14 Incremental transaction costs which are directly attributable to the o Assets and liabilities classi ed as held-for-sale note 40 issue of debt are capitalised and amortised over the expected life of the Assets and liabilities are classi ed as held-for-sale when their carrying borrowing, using the eff ective interest rate method.
All other borrowing amounts are to be recovered or settled principally through a sale costs are charged in the Group income statement in the year in which transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated they are incurred.
at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are No depreciation or amortisation is charged in respect of non-current taken to net finance costs over the periods of the contracts, together assets classi ed as held-for-sale.
with the interest diff erentials re ected in foreign exchange contracts.
Details of the nature of movements in the fair value of derivatives which are reported as financial fair value remeasurements are included in note j above.
The change in the year in the present value of put call option agreements, in respect of shares held by non-controlling shareholders, is recognised as a nancing fair value remeasurement within net finance costs.
Financial statements 11 9 Where part or all of the amount of disposal consideration is contingent 4.
Signi cant accounting policies continued on future events, the disposal proceeds initially recorded include a s Tax note 15 reasonable estimate of the value of the contingent amounts expected to be receivable and payable in the future.
The proceeds and pro t The tax charge or credit for the year is recognised in the Group income or loss on disposal are adjusted when revised estimates are made, statement, except for tax on items recognised in Other comprehensive with corresponding adjustments made to receivables and payables income or directly in equity.
as appropriate, until the ultimate outcome is known and the related Current tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws substantively consideration received.
enacted at the balance sheet date, in the countries where the Group operates.
Current tax assets and liabilities are off set where there is a v Discontinued operations note 16 legally enforceable right of off set.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that Uncertain tax positions are considered on an individual basis.
Where represents a separate geographic area of operation or a separate major management considers it probable that an additional out ow will line of business.
Classi cation as a discontinued operation occurs upon result from any given position, a provision is made.
Such provisions disposal or earlier, if the operation meets the criteria to be classi ed are measured using managements best estimate of the most likely as held-for-sale.
Discontinued operations are presented in the Group outcome.
Further details are given in note 5. income statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary diff erences arising When an operation is classi ed as a discontinued operation, between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying comparatives in the Group income statement and the Group statement amounts in the Group financial statements.
Deferred tax is not of comprehensive income are re-presented as if the operation had been recognised on taxable temporary diff erences arising on the initial discontinued from the start of the comparator year.
Deferred tax is not accounted for when it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other w Earnings per share EPS note 17 than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction aff ects Earnings per share are reported in accordance with EU-IFRS, including neither accounting nor taxable pro t or loss.
Deferred tax assets and IAS 33. liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability settled, based on the tax rates and x Segment information policy and presentation principles laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance note 8 sheet date, in the countries where the Group operates.
We are organised into, and managed on a worldwide basis through, the Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses carried following five operating segments, which are based on geographic areas forward and other temporary diff erences, to the extent that it is probable and supported by central functions: that the related tax benefit will be realised through future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary diff erences arising on North America investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group Latin America controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary diff erence and it is probable that the temporary diff erence will not reverse in the UK and Ireland foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are off set Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA and where there is a legally enforceable right to off set current tax assets and liabilities and where they relate to the same tax authority.
Asia Paci c. The chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of t Share incentive plans note 31 these operating segments on the basis of Benchmark EBIT, as fide ned The fair value of share incentives granted in connection with the Groups in note 6. equity-settled, share-based employee incentive plans is recognised as The All other segments category required to be disclosed has been an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value captioned as EMEA Asia Paci c in these financial statements.
This is measured using whichever of the Black-Scholes model, Monte Carlo combines information in respect of the EMEA and Asia Paci c segments, model or closing market price is most appropriate.
The Group takes as neither of these operating segments is individually reportable, on into account the best estimate of the number of awards and options the basis of their share of the Groups revenue, reported pro t or loss, expected to vest and revises such estimates at each balance sheet and assets.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimates.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the We separately present information equivalent to segment disclosures in fair value measurement but are not revised for actual performance.
respect of the costs of its central functions, under the caption Central Activities, as management believes that this information is helpful to u Contingent consideration users of the financial statements.
Costs reported for Central Activities include costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions.
Contingent consideration is recognised in accordance with EU-IFRS, including IFRS 3.
The initially recorded cost of any acquisition includes Inter-segment transactions are entered into under the normal a reasonable estimate of the fair value of any contingent amounts commercial terms and conditions that would be available to third expected to be payable in the future.
Any cost or bene t arising when parties.
Such transactions do not have a material impact on the such estimates are revised is recognised in the Group income statement Groups results.
Experian plc 120 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued significant judgment is required in determining the related assets or 4.
Signi cant accounting policies continued provisions, as there are transactions in the ordinary course of business Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
intangible assets including goodwill, inventories, derivatives designated The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether as hedges of future commercial transactions, and receivables.
They additional tax will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters exclude tax assets, cash and cash equivalents, and derivatives is diff erent from the amounts that were initially recognised, the designated as hedges of borrowings.
Segment liabilities comprise diff erences will aff ect the results for the year and the respective income operating liabilities, including derivatives designated as hedges of future tax and deferred tax assets or provisions in the year in which such commercial transactions.
They exclude tax liabilities, borrowings and determination is made.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets based related hedging derivatives.
Net assets reported for Central Activities on forecasts of future pro ts against which those assets may be utilised.
comprise corporate head offi ce assets and liabilities, including certain post-employment bene t assets and obligations, and derivative assets Goodwill note 19 and liabilities.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if plant and equipment and intangible assets, other than additions through there is an indication that it may be impaired.
The recoverable amount business combinations.
of each CGU is generally determined on the basis of value-in-use calculations, which require the use of cash ow projections based on Information required to be presented also includes analysis of the financial budgets, looking forward up to five years.
Management Groups revenues by groups of service lines.
This is supplemented by determines budgeted pro t margin based on past performance and its voluntary disclosure of the pro tability of those groups of service lines.
expectations for the markets development.
Cash ows are extrapolated For ease of reference, we continue to use the term business segments using estimated growth rates beyond a five-year period.
The growth when discussing the results of groups of service lines.
Our four business rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the segments, details of which are given in the Strategic report section of CGUs markets.
The discount rates used re ect the Groups pre-tax this Annual Report, are: weighted average cost of capital WACC, as adjusted for region-speci c Credit Services risks and other factors.
Decision Analytics b Critical judgments Marketing Services and In applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made Consumer Services.
judgments that have a signi cant eff ect on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements and the reported amounts of assets, The North America and the UK and Ireland operating segments derive liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may diff er from these revenues from all of the Groups business segments.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an Asia Paci c segments currently do not derive revenue from the ongoing basis.
Revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively.
Consumer Services business segment and such revenue generated in the Latin America segment is not yet suffi ciently material to be The most signi cant of these judgments are in respect of intangible disclosed separately.
assets and contingencies: Reportable segment information for the full year provided to the chief Intangible assets operating decision maker is set out in note 8 a.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project, which include the development of databases, internal use software 5.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and and internally generated software, are capitalised as intangible assets judgments if a number of criteria are met.
Management has made judgments and assumptions when assessing whether a project meets these a Critical accounting estimates and assumptions criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed In preparing these financial statements, management is required to to such projects.
make estimates and assumptions that aff ect the reported amount of On acquisition, speci c intangible assets are identi ed and recognised revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and the disclosure of contingent separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on lives.
These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to managements best judgment at the date of these financial statements, which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation will seldom equal the subsequent actual amounts.
The estimates of these assets and the related amortisation charges are based on and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material judgments about the value and economic life of such items.
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in future financial years are summarised below.
Revenue recognition is excluded The economic lives of intangible assets are estimated at between three from this summary on the grounds that the policy adopted in this area and ten years for internal projects and between two and 20 years for is suffi ciently objective.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
Tax notes 15, 34 and 43 c Further details of the amounts of, and movements in, such assets are The Group is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions.
The Group has a given in note 20. number of open tax returns with various tax authorities with whom it is in active dialogue.
Liabilities relating to these open and judgmental matters are based on an assessment as to whether additional taxes will be due, after taking into account external advice where appropriate.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and b Benchmark earnings before interest and tax Benchmark judgments continued EBIT and margin Benchmark EBIT margin note 8 a i Contingencies Benchmark EBIT is fide ned as Benchmark PBT before the net interest expense charged therein and accordingly excludes Exceptional items In the case of pending and threatened litigation claims, management has as fide ned below.
Benchmark EBIT margin is Benchmark EBIT from formed a judgment as to the likelihood of ultimate liability.
No liability ongoing activities expressed as a percentage of revenue from has been recognised where the likelihood of any loss arising is possible ongoing activities.
c Benchmark earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 6.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group and amortisation Benchmark EBITDA nancialstatements Benchmark EBITDA is fide ned as Benchmark EBIT before the As detailed below, the Group has identi ed and fide ned certain depreciation and amortisation charged therein note 11. measures that it uses to understand and manage our performance.
The measures are not fide ned under IFRS and they may not be directly d Exited business activities comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for any IFRS measures of Exited business activities are businesses sold, closed or identi ed for performance but management has included them as they consider closure during a financial year.
These are treated as exited business them to be key measures used within the business for assessing the activities for both revenue and Benchmark EBIT purposes.
The results underlying performance of the Groups ongoing businesses.
of exited business activities are disclosed separately with the results of the prior period re-presented in the segmental analyses as appropriate.
a Benchmark pro t before tax Benchmark PBT This measure diff ers from the fide nition of discontinued operations in IFRS 5. note 8 a i Benchmark PBT is disclosed to indicate the Groups underlying e Ongoing activities pro tability.
It is fide ned as pro t before amortisation and impairment of acquisition intangibles, impairment of goodwill, acquisition expenses, The results of businesses trading at 31 March 2018, which are not adjustments to contingent consideration, Exceptional items, nancing disclosed as exited business activities, are reported as ongoing fair value remeasurements, tax and interest thereon and discontinued activities.
It includes the Groups share of continuing associates post-tax results.
f Constant exchange rates To highlight its organic performance, we discuss our results in terms An explanation of the basis on which we report Exceptional items is of growth at constant exchange rates, unless otherwise stated.
Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT are represents growth calculated after translating both years performance explained as follows: at the prior years average exchange rates.
Charges for the amortisation and impairment of acquisition intangibles are excluded from the calculation of Benchmark PBT g Total growth note 8 a ii because these charges are based on judgments about their value and This is the year-on-year change in the performance of our activities at economic life and bear no relation to the Groups underlying ongoing actual exchange rates.
Total growth at constant exchange rates removes performance.
Impairment of goodwill is similarly excluded from the the translational foreign exchange eff ects arising on the consolidation calculation of Benchmark PBT.
of our activities and comprises one of our measures of performance at Acquisition and disposal expenses representing the incidental costs constant exchange rates.
of acquisitions and disposals, one-time integration costs and other corporate transaction expenses relating to successful, active or h Organic revenue growth note 8 a ii aborted acquisitions are excluded from the fide nition of Benchmark This is the year-on-year change in the revenue of ongoing activities, PBT as they bear no relation to the Groups underlying ongoing translated at constant exchange rates, excluding acquisitions until the performance or to the performance of any acquired businesses.
first anniversary of their consolidation.
Adjustments to contingent consideration are similarly excluded from the fide nition of Benchmark PBT.
i Benchmark earnings and Total Benchmark earnings Charges and credits for nancing fair value remeasurements within note17 finance expense in the Group income statement are excluded from Benchmark earnings comprises Benchmark PBT less attributable tax the fide nition of Benchmark PBT.
These include retranslation of and non-controlling interests.
The attributable tax for this purpose intra-Group funding, and that element of the Groups derivatives that is excludes signi cant tax credits and charges arising in the year which, ineligible for hedge accounting together with gains and losses on put in view of their size or nature, are not comparable with previous years, options in respect of acquisitions.
Amounts recognised generally arise together with tax arising on Exceptional items and on other adjustments from market movements and accordingly bear no direct relation to made to derive Benchmark PBT.
Benchmark PBT less attributable tax is the Groups underlying performance.
designated as Total Benchmark earnings.
Experian plc 122 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 6.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group r Return on capital employed ROCE note 8 a iii nancialstatements continued ROCE is fide ned as Benchmark EBIT less tax at the Benchmark rate divided by a three-point average of capital employed over the year.
j Benchmark earnings per share Benchmark EPS Capital employed is net assets less non-controlling interests, further note 17 adjusted to add or deduct the net tax liability or asset and the average capital employed in discontinued operations, and to add Net debt.
Benchmark EPS comprises Benchmark earnings divided by the weighted average number of issued ordinary shares, as adjusted for 7.
Financial risk management own shares held.
a Financial risk factors k Benchmark PBT per share The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks.
These are Benchmark PBT per share comprises Benchmark PBT divided by the market risk, including foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit weighted average number of issued ordinary shares, as adjusted for risk, and liquidity risk.
These risks are unchanged from those reported in own shares held.
The numeric disclosures in respect of financial risks are included within later notes to the financial statements, to l Benchmark tax charge and rate note 15 b ii provide a more transparent link between financial risks and results.
The Benchmark tax charge is the tax charge applicable to Benchmark Financial risks represent part of the Groups risks in relation to its PBT.
It diff ers from the Group tax charge by tax attributable to strategy and business objectives.
There is a full discussion of the most Exceptional items and other adjustments made to derive Benchmark signi cant risks in the Risk management section of this Annual Report.
PBT, and exceptional tax charges.
A reconciliation is provided in note The Groups financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability 15 b ii to these financial statements.
The Benchmark eff ective of financial markets and seeks to minimise potentially adverse eff ects rate of tax is calculated by dividing the Benchmark tax charge by on the Groups financial performance.
The Group seeks to reduce its Benchmark PBT.
exposure to financial risks and uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
However the Group does not, nor does it m Exceptional items note 13 a currently intend to, borrow in the Brazilian real or the Colombian peso.
The separate reporting of Exceptional items gives an indication of the The Group also ensures surplus funds are prudently managed and Groups underlying performance.
Exceptional items include those controlled.
arising from the pro t or loss on disposal of businesses, closure costs of major business units, costs of signi cant restructuring programmes Market risk and other nancially signi cant one-off items.
All other restructuring Foreign exchange risk costs are charged against Benchmark EBIT, in the segments in which The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk from future commercial they are incurred.
transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and investments in, and loans between, Group undertakings with diff erent functional currencies.
n Full-year dividend per share note 18 The Group manages such risk, primarily within undertakings whose Full-year dividend per share comprises the total of dividends per share functional currencies are the US dollar, by: announced in respect of the financial year.
entering into forward foreign exchange contracts in the relevant currencies in respect of investments in entities with functional o Benchmark operating and Benchmark free cash ow currencies other than the US dollar, whose net assets are exposed Benchmark operating cash ow is Benchmark EBIT plus amortisation, to foreign exchange translation risk depreciation and charges in respect of share-based incentive plans, less capital expenditure net of disposal proceeds and adjusted for changes in swapping the proceeds of certain bonds issued in the pound sterling working capital and the pro t or loss retained in continuing associates.
and euros into the US dollar Benchmark free cash ow is derived from Benchmark operating cash denominating internal loans in relevant currencies, to match the ow by excluding net interest, tax paid in respect of continuing currencies of assets and liabilities in entities with diff erent functional operations and dividends paid to non-controlling interests.
currencies and using forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge certain future p Cash ow conversion commercial transactions.
Cash ow conversion is Benchmark operating cash ow expressed as a percentage of Benchmark EBIT.
The principal transaction exposures are to the pound sterling and the euro.
An indication of the sensitivity to foreign exchange risk is given in note 9. q Net debt and Net funding note 27 Net debt is borrowings and the fair value of derivatives hedging borrowings excluding accrued interest, less cash and cash equivalents and other highly liquid bank deposits with original maturities greater than three months.
Net funding is borrowings and the fair value of the eff ective portion of derivatives hedging borrowings excluding accrued interest, less cash held in Group Treasury.
Financial statements 123 Details of such facilities are given in note 26.
Financial risk management continued contractual undiscounted future cash ows for financial liabilities is Interest rate risk given in note 30.
The Groups interest rate risk arises principally from components of its Net debt that are at variable rates.
b Capital risk management The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 50% and The Groups fide nition and management of capital focuses on capital 100% of Net funding at rates that are xed for more than six months.
employed: The Group manages its interest rate exposure by: The Groups capital employed is reported in the net assets summary using xed and oating rate borrowings, and interest rate swaps and table set out in the Financial review and analysed by segment in cross-currency interest rate swaps to adjust the balance between the note 8 a iii.
two: and As part of its internal reporting processes, the Group monitors capital mixing the duration of borrowings and interest rate swaps to smooth employed by operating segment.
the impact of interest rate uctuations.
The Groups objectives in managing capital are to: Further information in respect of the Groups net finance costs for the safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide year and an indication of the sensitivity to interest rate risk is given in returns for shareholders and bene ts for other stakeholders: and note 14. maintain an optimal capital structure and cost of capital.
Credit risk The Groups policy is to have: In the case of derivative financial instruments, deposits and trade receivables, the Group is exposed to credit risk from the nona prudent but effi cient balance sheet: and performance of contractual agreements by the contracted party.
a target gearing ratio of 2.0 to 2.5 times Benchmark EBITDA, Credit risk is managed by: consistent with the intention to retain strong investment-grade credit ratings.
only entering into contracts for derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions with strong credit To maintain or adjust its capital structure, the Group may: ratings, within limits set for each organisation: and adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders: closely controlling dealing activity and regularly monitoring return capital to shareholders: counterparty positions.
issue or purchase of our own shares: or The credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised and deposits held by the Group is therefore not considered to be signi cant.
sell assets to reduce Net debt.
The Group does not anticipate that any losses will arise from Dividend policy non-performance by its chosen counterparties.
Further information on the Groups derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet dates is The Group has a progressive dividend policy which aims to increase the given in note 28 and that in respect of amounts recognised in the Group dividend over time broadly in line with the underlying growth in income statement is given in note 14.
Further information on the Groups Benchmark EPS.
This aligns shareholder returns with the underlying cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet dates is given in note 24. pro tability of the Group.
In determining the level of dividend in any one year, in accordance with the policy, the Board also considers a number To minimise credit risk for trade receivables, the Group has implemented of other factors, including the outlook for the Group, the opportunities policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential clients before for organic investment, the opportunities to make acquisitions and granting credit.
The maximum credit risk in respect of such financial disposals, the cash ow generated by the Group, and the level of assets is their carrying value.
Further information in respect of the dividend cover.
Further detail on the distributable reserves of the Groups trade receivables is given in note 23.
Company can be found in note K to the Company financial statements.
Liquidity risk The Group manages liquidity risk by: issuing long maturity bonds and notes: entering into long-term committed bank borrowing facilities, to ensure the Group has suffi cient funds available for operations and planned growth: and monitoring rolling cash ow forecasts, to ensure the Group has adequate, unutilised borrowing facilities.
Experian plc 124 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 8.
Segment information a IFRS 8 disclosures i Income statement North Latin UK and EMEA Total operating Central Total continuing America America Ireland Asia Paci c segments Activities operations Year ended 31 March 2018 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue from external customers Ongoing activities 2,646 788 830 393 4,657 4,657 Exited business activities 5 5 5 Total 2,651 788 830 393 4,662 4,662 Reconciliation from Benchmark EBIT to pro t loss before tax Benchmark EBIT Ongoing activities 833 267 260 9 1,369 79 1,290 Exited business activities 1 1 1 Total 834 267 260 9 1,370 79 1,291 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT note 14 b 85 85 Benchmark PBT 834 267 260 9 1,370 164 1,206 Exceptional items note 13 a 57 57 57 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 79 20 9 4 112 112 Acquisition expenses 13 5 2 20 20 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 3 3 3 Fair value gain on step acquisition 4 4 4 Interest on uncertain tax provision 20 20 Financing fair value remeasurements note 14 c 4 4 Pro t loss before tax 685 247 247 3 1,182 188 994 North Latin UK and EMEA Total operating Central Total continuing America America Ireland Asia Paci c segments Activities operations Year ended 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue from external customers Ongoing activities 2,452 730 807 341 4,330 4,330 Exited business activities 5 5 5 Total 2,457 730 807 341 4,335 4,335 Reconciliation from Benchmark EBIT to pro t loss before tax Benchmark EBIT Ongoing activities 779 251 246 3 1,273 76 1,197 Exited business activities 2 2 2 Total 781 251 246 3 1,275 76 1,199 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT note 14 b 75 75 Benchmark PBT 781 251 246 3 1,275 151 1,124 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 70 22 8 4 104 104 Acquisition expenses 12 1 1 2 16 16 Financing fair value remeasurement note 14 c 67 67 Pro t loss before tax 699 228 237 9 1,155 84 1,071 A pro t before tax of US$23m 2017: US$8m arose in the year in respect of discontinued operations.
Further information on such operations which comprise CCM, the Groups email cross-channel marketing business, in the current and prior years, and the Groups comparison shopping and lead generation businesses in the prior year, is given in note 16 a.
Revenue and Benchmark EBIT by operating segment for the year ended 31 March 2017 have been re-analysed between ongoing and exited business activities, following the disposal of our Experian Public Records business in March 2018.
Additional information by operating segment, including that on total and organic growth at constant exchange rates, is provided in the Strategicreport.
Segment information continued ii Reconciliation of revenue from ongoing activities North Latin UK and EMEA Total ongoing America America Ireland Asia Paci c activities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2017 2,452 730 807 341 4,330 Adjustment to constant exchange rates 3 3 1 5 Revenue at constant exchange rates for the year ended 31 March 2017 2,452 727 804 342 4,325 Organic revenue growth 139 46 2 36 219 Revenue from acquisitions 55 8 63 Revenue at constant exchange rates for the year ended 31 March 2018 2,646 773 810 378 4,607 Adjustment to actual exchange rates 15 20 15 50 Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2018 2,646 788 830 393 4,657 Organic revenue growth at constant rates 6% 6% 11% 5% Total revenue growth at constant rates 8% 6% 1% 11% 7% The table above demonstrates the application of the methodology set out in note 6 in determining organic and total revenue growth at constant exchange rates.
Revenue at constant exchange rates for both years is reported using the average exchange rates applicable for the year ended 31March 2017. iii Balance sheet Net assets liabilities Central North Latin UK and EMEA Total operating Activities America America Ireland Asia Paci c segments and other Total Group At 31 March 2018 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 2,728 782 717 225 4,452 4,452 Investments in associates 21 62 8 91 34 125 Other assets 1,570 592 452 286 2,900 748 3,648 Total assets 4,319 1,374 1,231 519 7,443 782 8,225 Total liabilities 707 167 318 185 1,377 4,224 5,601 Net assets liabilities 3,612 1,207 913 334 6,066 3,442 2,624 Central North Latin UK and EMEA Total operating Activities America America Ireland Asia Paci c segments and other Total Group At 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 2,641 801 603 200 4,245 4,245 Investments in associates 22 13 7 42 42 Other assets 1,447 580 364 224 2,615 789 3,404 Total assets 4,110 1,381 980 431 6,902 789 7,691 Total liabilities 603 147 276 135 1,161 3,879 5,040 Net assets liabilities 3,507 1,234 704 296 5,741 3,090 2,651 Central Activities and other comprises: 2018 2017 Net assets Net assets Assets Liabilities liabilities Assets Liabilities liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Central Activities 394 145 249 224 104 120 Investment in associate 34 34 Assets liabilities classi ed as held-for-sale 358 58 300 Net debt 187 3,595 3,408 98 3,271 3,173 Tax 167 484 317 109 446 337 782 4,224 3,442 789 3,879 3,090 The total tax liability for the Group at 31 March 2017 also included a net liability of US$18m classi ed as held-for-sale note 40.
Experian plc 126 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 8.
Segment information continued iii Balance sheet continued Capital employed 2018 2017 US$m US$m North America 3,612 3,507 Latin America 1,207 1,234 UK and Ireland 913 704 EMEA Asia Paci c 334 296 Total operating segments 6,066 5,741 Central Activities 283 120 Assets and liabilities classi ed as held-for-sale note 40 300 Non-controlling interests 7 12 Capital employed attributable to owners 6,342 6,149 iv Capital expenditure, amortisation and depreciation Capital expenditure Amortisation Depreciation 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 187 172 113 105 37 40 Latin America 112 120 72 63 11 9 UK and Ireland 54 59 32 31 13 13 EMEA Asia Paci c 33 26 21 23 6 8 Total operating segments 386 377 238 222 67 70 Central Activities 45 22 19 28 2 2 Total Group 431 399 257 250 69 72 Amortisation and depreciation above only include amounts charged to Benchmark PBT.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, capital expenditure of US$24m, amortisation of US$14m and depreciation of US$6m arose in respect of discontinued operations.
Further information is given in note 16. v Revenue by country continuing operations 2018 2017 US$m US$m USA 2,646 2,449 UK 823 800 Brazil 707 649 Colombia 63 62 Other 423 375 4,662 4,335 Revenue is primarily attributable to countries other than Ireland.
No single client accounted for 10% or more of revenue in the current or prior year.
Revenue from the USA, the UK and Brazil in aggregate comprises 90% 2017: 90% of Group revenue.
vi Non-current assets by country 2018 2017 US$m US$m USA 3,746 3,643 UK 1,052 830 Brazil 923 951 Colombia 237 233 Other 383 352 Segment non-current assets by country 6,341 6,009 Central Activities 445 202 Deferred tax 140 83 6,926 6,294 To add clarity to the presentation of this information, non-current assets for Central Activities and deferred tax have been excluded from the analysis by country.
The Group has no signi cant non-current assets located in Ireland.
Segment information continued b Information on business segments including non-GAAP disclosures Credit Decision Marketing Consumer Total business Central Total continuing Services Analytics Services Services segments Activities operations Year ended 31 March 2018 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue from external customers Ongoing activities 2,606 668 457 926 4,657 4,657 Exited business activities 5 5 5 Total 2,611 668 457 926 4,662 4,662 Reconciliation from Benchmark EBIT to pro t loss before tax Benchmark EBIT Ongoing activities 898 144 133 194 1,369 79 1,290 Exited business activities 1 1 1 Total 899 144 133 194 1,370 79 1,291 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT note 14 b 85 85 Benchmark PBT 899 144 133 194 1,370 164 1,206 Exceptional items note 13 a 29 28 57 57 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 80 9 4 19 112 112 Acquisition expenses 12 8 20 20 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 3 3 3 Fair value gain on step acquisition 4 4 4 Interest on uncertain tax provision 20 20 Financing fair value remeasurements note 14 c 4 4 Pro t loss before tax 779 107 129 167 1,182 188 994 Credit Decision Marketing Consumer Total business Central Total continuing Services Analytics Services Services segments Activities operations Year ended 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue from external customers Ongoing activities 2,384 584 421 941 4,330 4,330 Exited business activities 5 5 5 Total 2,389 584 421 941 4,335 4,335 Reconciliation from Benchmark EBIT to pro t loss before tax Benchmark EBIT Ongoing activities 815 120 95 243 1,273 76 1,197 Exited business activities 2 2 2 Total 817 120 95 243 1,275 76 1,199 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT note 14 b 75 75 Benchmark PBT 817 120 95 243 1,275 151 1,124 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 76 9 4 15 104 104 Acquisition expenses 7 9 16 16 Financing fair value remeasurements note 14 c 67 67 Pro t loss before tax 734 111 91 219 1,155 84 1,071 A pro t before tax of US$23m 2017: US$8m arose in respect of discontinued operations.
Further information is given in note 16 a.
Revenue and Benchmark EBIT by business segment for the year ended 31 March 2017 have been re-analysed between ongoing and exited business activities, following the disposal of our Experian Public Records business in March 2018.
Additional information by business segment, including that on total and organic growth at constant exchange rates, is provided in the Strategic report.
Experian plc 128 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 9.
Foreign currency a Principal exchange rates used Average Closing 2018 2017 2018 2017 2016 US dollar : Brazilian real 3.22 3.30 3.31 3.17 3.56 Pound sterling : US dollar 1.33 1.30 1.41 1.25 1.44 Euro : US dollar 1.17 1.10 1.23 1.07 1.14 US dollar : Colombian peso 2,935 2,969 2,794 2,894 2,997 b Foreign exchange risk i Brazilian real intra-Group funding In 2012, Brazilian real intra-Group funding was provided to Serasa S. A. in Brazil from a Group company whose functional currency was not the Brazilian real.
As the funding was considered to be permanent, no foreign exchange volatility was recognised within nancing fair value remeasurements in the Group income statement.
In November 2014, the funding was partially repaid.
The Group exchanged the repayment into US dollars and used it to repay debt.
Following the partial repayment of the debt, the remaining funding was no longer regarded as permanent for the purposes of EU-IFRS.
In the year end ended 31 March 2017, an additional element of the funding was repaid.
As a result of the weakening of 4% in the Brazilian real against the US dollar in the year ended 31 March 2018, a charge of US$12m has been recognised within nancing fair value remeasurements 2017: gain of US$34m due to 11% strengthening note 14 c. The Group is similarly exposed to the impact of the Brazilian real strengthening or weakening against the US dollar in the future.
A movement of 21% would result in a US$57m impact on pro t before tax.
There is no eff ect on total equity as a result of this exposure, since it arises on intra-Group funding and there would be a related equal but opposite foreign exchange movement recognised in the translation reserve within equity.
ii Other exposures On the basis of the pro le of foreign exchange exposures, and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in such exposures, there are no other material sensitivities to foreign exchange risk at the balance sheet dates.
In making these assessments, actual data on movements in the principal currencies over the most recent three-year period has been considered together with exposures at the balance sheet dates.
This methodology has been applied consistently.
Labour costs and employee numbers continuing operations a Labour costs including executive directors 2018 2017 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,236 1,192 Social security costs 200 176 Share incentive plans note 31 a 84 60 Pension costs fide ned bene t plans note 33 a 8 8 Pension costs fide ned contribution plans 50 48 Employee bene t costs 1,578 1,484 Other labour costs 138 131 1,716 1,615 Other labour costs includes those in respect of external contractors, outsourcing and the recruitment, development and training of employees.
The fide nition of key management personnel, and an analysis of their remuneration, is given in note 44 d. b Average monthly number of employees including executive directors 2018 2017 Full-time Full-time Full-time Part-time equivalent Full-time Part-time equivalent North America 6,565 37 6,583 6,225 40 6,245 Latin America 3,131 106 3,184 3,130 113 3,187 UK and Ireland 3,604 276 3,742 3,500 264 3,632 EMEA Asia Paci c 2,770 71 2,806 2,583 64 2,615 Total operating segments 16,070 490 16,315 15,438 481 15,679 Central Activities 169 22 180 149 20 159 16,239 512 16,495 15,587 501 15,838 Experian plc 130 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 11.
Amortisation and depreciation charges 2018 2017 US$m US$m Benchmark: Amortisation of other intangible assets 257 250 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 69 72 326 322 Non-benchmark: Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 112 104 438 426 An analysis by segment of amounts charged within Benchmark PBT is given in note 8 a iv.
Analyses by asset type are given in notes 20 and 21.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor 2018 2017 US$m US$m Audit of the Company and Group financial statements 0.6 0.5 Audit of the financial statements of the Companys subsidiaries 3.2 2.6 Audit-related assurance services 0.4 0.4 Other assurance services 0.2 0.1 Other services 0.5 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates 4.4 4.1 Summary of fees by nature: Fees for audit services 3.8 3.1 Fees for audit-related assurance services 0.4 0.4 Fees for other services 0.2 0.6 4.4 4.1 The guidelines covering the use of the Companys auditor for non-audit services are set out in the Corporate governance report.
Current policy is that such fees are capped at 50% of the fees for audit services.
In the year ended 31 March 2018, fees payable for services, other than fees for audit-related assurance services, were 5% 2017: 19% of fees payable for audit services.
Such fees are reported within Other operating charges.
Exceptional items and Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT continuing operations a Charge for Exceptional items and Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 2018 2017 US$m US$m Exceptional items: Canadian legal settlement note 13 b 32 Legal provisions movements note 13 c 25 Charge for Exceptional items 57 Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT: Amortisation of acquisition intangibles note 20 112 104 Acquisition expenses 20 16 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 3 Interest on uncertain tax provisions 20 Fair value gain on step acquisition 4 Financing fair value remeasurements note 14 a 4 67 Charge for other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 155 53 Charge for Exceptional items and Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 212 53 By income statement caption: Labour costs 7 6 Amortisation and depreciation charges 112 104 Other operating charges 69 10 Within operating pro t 188 120 Finance expense note 14 a 24 67 Net charge for other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 212 53 Acquisition expenses comprise professional fees and expenses associated with completed, ongoing and terminated acquisition processes, as well as the integration costs associated with completed deals.
b Canadian legal settlement On 6 March 2018 we settled a contractual dispute in Canada that arose following a 2008 sales process in our now divested BakerHill business.
All costs relating to the dispute have been paid in the year.
c Legal provisions movements During the year ended 31 March 2018, we paid US$7m of legal fees and increased provisions by a further net US$18m in respect of a number of related legal claims.
We may bene t from applicable insurance recoveries in future years.
Experian plc 132 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 14.
Net finance costs a Net finance costs included in pro t before tax 2018 2017 US$m US$m Interest income: Bank deposits, short-term investments and loan notes 15 14 Interest income 15 14 Finance expense: Eurobonds and notes 83 86 Bank loans, commercial paper, overdrafts and other 23 13 Commitment and facility utilisation fees 5 5 Interest expense on pension plan liabilities 1 1 Interest diff erentials on derivatives 12 16 Interest expense 100 89 Charge credit in respect of nancing fair value remeasurements note 14 c 4 67 Interest on uncertain tax provisions 20 Finance expense 124 22 Net finance costs included in pro t before tax 109 8 b Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 2018 2017 US$m US$m Interest income 15 14 Interest expense 100 89 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 85 75 c Analysis of charge credit for nancing fair value remeasurements 2018 2017 US$m US$m Fair value gains on borrowings attributable to interest rate risk 46 29 Fair value losses gains on borrowings attributable to currency risk 209 125 Losses on interest rate swaps fair value hedges 7 1 Gains losses on cross-currency swaps fair value hedges 167 160 Fair value gains on non-hedging derivatives 15 39 Foreign exchange losses gains on Brazilian real intra-Group funding 12 34 Other foreign exchange losses gains on nancing activities 2 3 Increase in present value of put options 2 2 4 67 d Interest rate risk The following table shows the sensitivity to interest rate risk, on the basis of the pro le of Net debt at the balance sheet dates and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in the principal interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
In making this assessment, actual movements in relevant interest rates over the most recent three-year period have been considered and a consistent methodology applied.
An indication of the primary cause of the reported sensitivity of pro t for the financial year is included.
2018 2017 Gain loss US$m US$m Eff ect of an increase of 0.4% 2017: 0.2% on US dollar-denominated Net debt: Due to fair value gains on interest rate swaps off set by higher interest on oating rate borrowings 8 2 Eff ect of an increase of 0.1% 2017: 0.1% on pound sterling-denominated Net debt: Due to the revaluation of borrowings and related derivatives 1 Eff ect of an increase of 2.8% 2017: 2.0% on Brazilian real-denominated Net debt: Due to higher interest income on cash and cash equivalents 1 Eff ect of an increase of 0.2% 2017: 0.2% on euro-denominated Net debt: Due to fair value gains on interest rate swaps off set by higher interest on oating rate borrowings 1 Financial statements 133 15.
Group tax charge a Analysis of tax charge in the Group income statement 2018 2017 US$m US$m Current tax: Tax on income for the year 323 177 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 5 Total current tax charge 328 172 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary diff erences 183 74 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 13 Total deferred tax credit charge 179 87 Group tax charge 149 259 The Group tax charge comprises: UK tax 105 72 Non-UK tax 44 187 149 259 b Tax reconciliations i Reconciliation of the Group tax charge As the Group is subject to the tax rates of more than one country, it has chosen to present its reconciliation of the Group tax charge using the main rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The eff ective rate of tax for each year based on pro t before tax is lower 2017: higher than the main rate of corporation tax in the UK, with the diff erences explained in note 15 c. 2018 2017 US$m US$m Pro t before tax 994 1,071 Pro t before tax multiplied by the main rate of UK corporation tax of 19% 2017: 20% 189 214 Eff ects of: Adjustments in respect of prior years 9 8 Tax on Exceptional items 2 Other income not taxable 10 12 Losses not recognised 45 16 Expenses not deductible 117 61 Diff erent eff ective tax rates in non-UK businesses 16 28 Credit on restatement of deferred tax balances in North America 116 Recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses 67 Group tax charge 149 259 Expenses not deductible include movements in uncertain tax provisions.
Eff ective rate of tax based on pro t before tax 15.0% 24.2% ii Reconciliation of the Group tax charge to the Benchmark tax charge 2018 2017 US$m US$m Group tax charge 149 259 Tax relief on Exceptional items and Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 53 35 Exceptional tax items 107 Benchmark tax charge 309 294 Benchmark PBT 1,206 1,124 Benchmark tax rate 25.6% 26.2% Exceptional tax items include the credit on restatement of deferred tax balances in North America, the recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses and an increase in the Groups uncertain tax provisions.
Experian plc 134 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 15.
Group tax charge continued c Factors that aff ect the tax charge Prior year adjustments re ect the net movement on historical tax positions, including adjustments for matters that have been substantively agreed with local tax authorities, and adjustments to deferred tax assets based on latest estimates and assumptions.
Expenses not deductible include charges in respect of uncertain tax positions, nancing fair value remeasurements not allowable for tax purposes, and losses on the disposal of businesses which are not subject to tax relief.
The US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted on 22 December 2017.
This reduced the federal corporate tax rate in the USA from 35% to 21% with eff ect from 1 January 2018, and closing deferred tax assets and liabilities of USA companies within the Group have been calculated at this rate.
The resulting credit of US$116m has been recognised in the Group income statement.
We have recognised a deferred tax asset of US$67m in respect of previously unrecognised losses which arose from a group reorganisation, resulting in a corresponding credit to the Group income statement.
The Groups tax rate re ects its internal nancing arrangements in place to fund non-UK businesses.
In addition, in the normal course of business, the Group has a number of open tax returns with various tax authorities with whom it is in active dialogue.
At 31 March 2018 the Group held current provisions of US$301m 2017: US$213m in respect of uncertain tax positions.
The resolution of these tax matters may take many years.
The Group does not expect to materially increase its uncertain tax provision in the next 12 months, however if an opportunity arose to resolve the matters for less than the amounts provided, a settlement may be made with a corresponding reduction in the provision.
d Other factors that aff ect the future tax charge The Groups tax charge will continue to be in uenced by the pro le of pro ts earned in the diff erent countries in which the Groups subsidiaries operate.
The Group could be aff ected by changes in tax law in the future, as we expect countries to amend legislation in respect of international tax.
The main rate of UK corporation tax was reduced to 19% from 1 April 2017 and will be reduced further to 17% from 1 April 2020.
Discontinued operations On 31 May 2017, the Group completed the divestment of CCM, and the results and cash ows of this business are accordingly classi ed as discontinued.
We completed a transaction to divest our comparison shopping and historic lead generation businesses in October 2012, and their results and cash ows are classi ed as discontinued.
a Results for discontinued operations The loss for the financial year from discontinued operations of US$30m 2017: pro t of US$53m comprises a loss of US$30m 2017: pro t of US$66m in respect of CCM.
In the prior year, a loss of US$13m was recognised in respect of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses.
This disposal has now been nalised with receipt of US$15m in respect of the loan note outstanding.
The results of CCM were: 2018 2017 US$m US$m Revenue 48 308 Labour costs 28 153 Data and information technology costs 8 27 Depreciation and amortisation charges 27 Marketing and customer acquisition costs 1 3 Other operating charges 14 50 Total operating expenses 51 260 Separation and transaction related charges 28 18 Loss pro t before tax 31 30 Tax credit 8 36 Loss pro t after tax of discontinued operations 23 66 Pro t on disposal of discontinued operations note 41 a 54 Tax charge in respect of disposal 61 Loss pro t for the financial year from discontinued operations 30 66 Depreciation and amortisation includes amortisation of acquisition intangibles of US$nil 2017: US$7m.
The operating loss for the year ended 31 March 2018 includes certain restructuring and one-off costs of separation.
A deferred tax credit on the disposal of US$45m was recognised in the year ended 31 March 2017.
Discontinued operations continued The results of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses were: 2018 2017 US$m US$m Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 22 Tax credit in respect of disposal 9 Loss for the financial year from discontinued operations 13 The loss on disposal in the prior year arose from the reduction in the carrying value of the loan note receivable issued as part of the disposal.
The remaining carrying value of the loan note US$15m was received during the year.
b Cash ows for discontinued operations 2018 2017 US$m US$m Cash out ow in ow from operating activities 63 41 Cash ow from used in investing activities 278 21 215 20 The cash out ow from operating activities of US$63m 2017: in ow of US$41m relates to CCM and is stated after tax paid of US$22m 2017: US$9m.
Cash ow from investing activities of US$278m 2017: used in investing activities US$21m comprises an in ow of US$263m 2017: out ow of US$24m relating to CCM, and a cash in ow of US$15m 2017: US$3m on the redemption of the loan note which arose on the disposal of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses.
Earnings per share disclosures a Earnings per share Basic Diluted 2018 2017 2018 2017 US cents US cents US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 88.9 92.1 88.0 91.4 Add less : discontinued operations loss pro t 3.2 5.6 3.2 5.6 Continuing operations 92.1 86.5 91.2 85.8 Add: other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT, net of related tax 5.7 1.9 5.7 1.9 Benchmark EPS non-GAAP measure 97.8 88.4 96.9 87.7 b Analysis of earnings i Attributable to owners of Experian plc 2018 2017 US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 815 866 Add less : discontinued operations loss pro t 30 53 Continuing operations 845 813 Add: other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT, net of related tax 52 18 Benchmark earnings attributable to owners of Experian plc non-GAAP measure 897 831 ii Attributable to non-controlling interests 2018 2017 US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 1 Add: amortisation of acquisition intangibles attributable to non-controlling interests, net of related tax Benchmark earnings attributable to non-controlling interests non-GAAP measure 1 Experian plc 136 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 17.
Earnings per share disclosures continued c Reconciliation of Total Benchmark earnings to pro t for the financial year 2018 2017 US$m US$m Total Benchmark earnings non-GAAP measure 897 830 Loss pro t from discontinued operations 30 53 Loss from other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT, net of related tax 52 18 Pro t for the financial year 815 865 d Weighted average number of ordinary shares 2018 2017 million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares 917 940 Add: dilutive eff ect of share incentive awards, options and share purchases 9 8 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 926 948 18.
Dividends 2018 2017 US cents US cents per share US$m per share US$m Amounts recognised and paid during the financial year: First interim paid in February 2018 2017: January 2017 13.50 124 13.00 121 Second interim paid in July 2017 2017: July 2016 28.50 264 27.50 260 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 42.00 388 40.50 381 Full-year dividend for the financial year 44.75 407 41.50 386 A second interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2018 of 31.25 US cents per ordinary share will be paid on 20 July 2018, to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 June 2018.
This dividend is not included as a liability in these financial statements.
This second interim dividend and the first interim dividend paid in February 2018 comprise the full-year dividend for the financial year of 44.75 US cents per ordinary share.
Further administrative information on dividends is given in the Shareholder and corporate information section.
In the year ended 31 March 2018, the employee trusts waived their entitlements to dividends of US$5m 2017: US$5m.
There is no entitlement to dividend in respect of own shares held as treasury shares.
Goodwill a Movements in goodwill 2018 2017 US$m US$m Cost and net book amount At 1 April 4,245 4,198 Diff erences on exchange 75 31 Additions through business combinations note 39 a 133 292 Disposals 1 Transfer in respect of assets held-for-sale note 40 214 At 31 March 4,452 4,245 b Goodwill by CGU 2018 2017 US$m US$m North America 2,728 2,641 Latin America 782 801 UK and Ireland 717 603 EMEA 143 123 Asia Paci c 82 77 At 31 March 4,452 4,245 c Key assumptions for value-in-use calculations by CGU 2018 2017 Long-term Long-term Discount rate growth rate Discount rate growth rate % pa % pa % pa % pa North America 12.8 2.3 12.9 2.3 Latin America 17.8 4.7 17.8 4.7 UK and Ireland 10.5 2.3 9.7 2.3 EMEA 14.0 3.9 12.8 2.9 Asia Paci c 11.7 5.9 11.0 5.3 As indicated in note 5 a, value-in-use calculations are underpinned by financial budgets, looking forward up to five years.
Managements key assumptions in setting the financial budgets for the initial five-year period were as follows: forecast revenue growth rates were based on past experience, adjusted for the strategic opportunities within each CGU: the forecasts typically used average nominal growth rates of up to 9%, with Asia Paci c having rates of up to 20%: Benchmark EBIT was forecast based on historic margins, which were expected to be broadly stable throughout the period in the mature CGUs, and improving to a low double-digit margin in EMEA and Asia Paci c: and forecast operating cash ow conversion rates were based on historic experience and performance expectations in a range of 75% to 95%.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, CCM met the fide nition of a CGU.
Goodwill was allocated to this CGU and tested for impairment by comparison to the expected proceeds from its divestment.
No impairment of goodwill was identi ed and the goodwill attributable to this CGU was classi ed as held-for-sale at 31 March 2017.
Further details of the principles used in determining the basis of allocation by CGU and annual impairment testing are given in note 5 a. d Results of annual impairment review as at 31 March 2018 The review for the EMEA CGU indicated that the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying value by US$64m and that any decline in estimated value-in-use in excess of that amount would result in the recognition of an impairment charge.
The sensitivities, which result in the recoverable amount being equal to the carrying value, can be summarised as follows: an absolute increase of 2.9 percentage points in the discount rate, from 14.0% to 16.9%: or an absolute reduction of 4.4 percentage points in the long-term growth rate, from growth of 3.9% to a decline of 0.5%: or a reduction of 4.2 percentage points in the forecast terminal pro t margin, from 16.1% to 11.9%.
A reduction in the annual margin improvement of approximately 0.8 percentage points per year over the five-year forecast period would also reduce the recoverable amount to the carrying value.
The recoverable amount of the other CGUs signi cantly exceeded their carrying value, on the basis of the assumptions set out in the table in note 19 c and any reasonably possible changes thereof.
Experian plc 138 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 20.
Other intangible assets Acquisition intangibles Customer Acquired Internally and other software MarketingInternal use generated relationships development related assets Databases software software Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2017 1,016 274 97 1,281 323 455 3,446 Diff erences on exchange 11 3 6 2 28 50 Additions through business combinations 38 35 5 78 Other additions 192 39 129 360 Disposal of businesses 6 8 14 Other disposals 2 1 68 1 21 93 At 31 March 2018 1,059 310 101 1,403 363 591 3,827 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2017 478 159 73 814 243 218 1,985 Diff erences on exchange 10 3 1 7 2 15 36 Charge for the year 73 30 9 168 34 55 369 Disposal of businesses 5 3 8 Other disposals 2 1 68 1 21 93 At 31 March 2018 556 190 80 918 278 267 2,289 Net book amount at 31 March 2017 538 115 24 467 80 237 1,461 Net book amount at 31 March 2018 503 120 21 485 85 324 1,538 Acquisition intangibles Customer Acquired Internally and other software MarketingInternal use generated relationships development related assets Databases software software Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2016 1,021 209 96 1,131 308 461 3,226 Diff erences on exchange 8 4 26 4 28 14 Additions through business combinations 21 87 5 113 Other additions 187 41 108 336 Other disposals 11 8 1 63 2 21 106 Transfer in respect of assets held-for-sale 23 14 2 28 70 137 At 31 March 2017 1,016 274 97 1,281 323 455 3,446 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2016 427 156 64 704 213 231 1,795 Diff erences on exchange 1 3 15 3 14 8 Charge for the year 78 24 9 158 46 60 375 Other disposals 11 8 1 63 2 21 106 Transfer in respect of assets held-for-sale 16 14 2 17 38 87 At 31 March 2017 478 159 73 814 243 218 1,985 Net book amount at 31 March 2016 594 53 32 427 95 230 1,431 Net book amount at 31 March 2017 538 115 24 467 80 237 1,461 There are no assets held under finance lease agreements and capitalised in Other intangible assets.
Within the above are the following individually material assets: North America Healthcare customer relationships net book value of US$287m at 31 March 2018, with a remaining amortisation period of ten years.
Acquired CSID platform with a net book value of US$84m at 31 March 2018, and a remaining amortisation period of eight years.
In addition to the development capitalised above we charged US$142m 2017: US$143m of research and development in the Group income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Short leasehold Plant and properties properties equipment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2017 158 145 478 781 Diff erences on exchange 10 20 30 Additions through business combinations note 39 a 1 1 Other additions 4 7 60 71 Disposals of businesses 2 1 3 Disposals 13 10 18 41 At 31 March 2018 159 140 540 839 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2017 47 73 332 452 Diff erences on exchange 3 15 18 Charge for the year 4 8 57 69 Disposals of businesses 2 1 3 Disposals 9 10 13 32 At 31 March 2018 45 69 390 504 Net book amount at 31 March 2017 111 72 146 329 Net book amount at 31 March 2018 114 71 150 335 Freehold Short leasehold Plant and properties properties equipment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2016 174 152 475 801 Diff erences on exchange 12 1 15 26 Additions through business combinations 1 1 Other additions 9 2 76 87 Disposals 13 2 8 23 Transfer in respect of assets held-for-sale 8 51 59 At 31 March 2017 158 145 478 781 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2016 57 74 318 449 Diff erences on exchange 4 13 17 Charge for the year 3 9 66 78 Disposals 9 2 6 17 Transfer in respect of assets held-for-sale 8 33 41 At 31 March 2017 47 73 332 452 Net book amount at 31 March 2016 117 78 157 352 Net book amount at 31 March 2017 111 72 146 329 The net book amount of assets held under finance lease agreements and capitalised in plant and equipment is US$8m 2017: US$3m.
Experian plc 140 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 22.
Investments in associates During the year ended 31 March 2018 an additional associate undertaking was created following the divestment of the email cross-channel marketing business CCM as disclosed in note 41.
As a result of this transaction, the Group now owns 25% of the issued share capital of Vector CM Holdings Cayman, L. P. a partnership incorporated in Cayman Islands.
The Group also acquired a 25% stake in London & Country Mortgages Limited, a company registered in England and Wales, for US$60m.
2018 2017 US$m US$m At 1 April 42 8 Diff erences on exchange Additions 60 33 Interest in associate arising on a business disposal 31 Fair value gain on step acquisition 4 Acquisition of controlling stake in associate 17 Share of pro t after tax 8 4 Dividends received 3 3 At 31 March 125 42 23.
Trade and other receivables a Analysis by type and maturity 2018 2017 US$m US$m Trade receivables 746 619 Credit note provision 21 16 Trade receivables after credit note provision 725 603 Impairment provision 22 21 Trade receivables net 703 582 VAT and equivalent taxes recoverable 1 6 Prepayments 194 154 Accrued income 225 174 1,123 916 As reported in the Group balance sheet: Current trade and other receivables 1,112 910 Non-current trade and other receivables 11 6 1,123 916 There is no material diff erence between the fair value and the book value stated above.
The only impaired assets are within trade receivables.
Non-current trade and other receivables comprise prepayments.
Trade receivables with financial institutions comprise 35% 2017: 28% of such receivables in Brazil, 43% 2017: 44% in the UK and 9% 2017: 19% in the USA.
Together these represent 19% 2017: 23% of trade receivables, with other balances spread across a number of sectors and geographies.
b Analysis by nature 2018 2017 US$m US$m Financial instruments 780 621 VAT and equivalent taxes recoverable 1 6 Amounts within prepayments and accrued income 342 289 Items other than financial instruments 343 295 1,123 916 Financial statements 141 23.
Trade and other receivables continued c Analysis by denomination of currency 2018 2017 US$m US$m US dollar 529 427 Pound sterling 204 160 Brazilian real 174 156 Euro 60 42 Colombian peso 28 29 Other 128 102 1,123 916 d Analysis of trade receivables after credit note provision 2018 2017 US$m US$m Neither past due nor impaired: New customers of less than six months standing 29 30 Existing customers of more than six months standing 453 383 Neither past due nor impaired 482 413 Past due but not considered impaired: Up to three months past due 171 126 Three to six months past due 18 20 Over six months past due 21 18 Past due but not considered impaired 210 164 Trade receivables not considered impaired 692 577 Trade receivables considered partially impaired note 23 e 33 26 725 603 In the case of trade receivables reported as not considered impaired, there is no evidence of impairment.
e Analysis of trade receivables considered partially impaired 2018 2017 US$m US$m Up to three months past due 9 8 Three to six months past due 5 2 Over six months past due 19 16 Trade receivables considered partially impaired and provided for 33 26 Impairment provision note 23 f 22 21 Net impaired trade receivables 11 5 f Movements in the impairment provision 2018 2017 US$m US$m At 1 April 21 21 Provision for impairment 19 21 Provision utilised in respect of debts written off 2 7 Transfer in respect of assets held-for-sale 2 Unused amounts reversed 16 12 At 31 March 22 21 Experian plc 142 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 24.
Cash and cash equivalents a Analysis by nature 2018 2017 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 103 56 Short-term investments 53 27 156 83 The eff ective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents held at 31 March 2018 is 2.3% 2017: 4.4%.
There is no material diff erence between the fair value and the book value stated above.
b Analysis by external credit rating 2018 2017 US$m US$m Counterparty holding of more than US$2m: A rated 104 50 B rated 21 6 Not rated 3 Counterparty holding of more than US$2m 125 59 Counterparty holding of less than US$2m 31 24 156 83 25.
Trade and other payables a Analysis by type and maturity 2018 2017 Current Non-current Current Non-current US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 227 201 VAT and other equivalent taxes payable 40 30 Social security costs 98 71 Accruals 483 9 447 11 Deferred income 287 4 257 4 Other payables 159 31 103 1,294 44 1,109 15 There is no material diff erence between the fair value and the book value stated above.
Other payables include employee bene ts of US$68m 2017: US$73m and deferred consideration of US$33m 2017: US$5m.
b Analysis by nature 2018 2017 US$m US$m Financial instruments 568 434 VAT and other equivalent taxes payable 40 30 Social security costs 98 71 Amounts within accruals and deferred income 632 589 Items other than financial instruments 770 690 1,338 1,124 Contractual undiscounted future cash ows in respect of financial instruments are shown in note 30.
Other than finance lease obligations, the borrowings are unsecured.
Further information on the methodology used in determining fair values is given in note 29. b Analysis by maturity 2018 2017 US$m US$m Less than one year 956 759 One to two years 1,262 1,080 Two to three years 102 688 Three to four years 579 Four to five years 517 Over five years 615 3,514 3,044 c Analysis by currency 2018 2017 US$m US$m US dollar 2,822 2,400 Pound sterling 603 462 Euro 43 97 Other 46 85 3,514 3,044 The above analysis takes account of the eff ect of cross-currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts and re ects the way in which the Group manages exposures.
Experian plc 144 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 26.
Borrowings continued d Undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities 2018 2017 US$m US$m Facilities expiring in: One to two years 150 200 Two to three years 375 150 Three to four years 1,800 225 Four to five years 1,800 2,325 2,375 These facilities are at variable interest rates and are in place for general corporate purposes, including the nancing of acquisitions and the re nancing of other borrowings.
e Covenants and gearing ratio There is one financial covenant in connection with the borrowing facilities.
Benchmark EBIT must exceed three times net interest expense before nancing fair value remeasurements.
The Group monitors this, and the Net debt to Benchmark EBITDA gearing ratio, and has complied with this covenant throughout the year.
Net debt non-GAAP measure a Analysis by nature 2018 2017 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts 137 81 Debt due within one year commercial paper 353 152 Debt due within one year bonds and notes 572 600 Debt due within one year finance lease obligations 3 1 Debt due after more than one year bonds and notes 1,837 1,618 Debt due after more than one year bank loans and finance lease obligations 706 651 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 74 232 3,408 3,173 b Analysis by balance sheet caption 2018 2017 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 156 83 Current borrowings 956 759 Non-current borrowings 2,558 2,285 Total reported in the Group balance sheet 3,358 2,961 Accrued interest reported within borrowings above but excluded from Net debt 24 20 Derivatives reported within financial assets 50 15 Derivatives reported within financial liabilities 124 247 3,408 3,173 Financial statements 145 27.
Net debt non-GAAP measure continued c Analysis of movements in Net debt Derivatives hedging loans Current Non-current Total nancing Accrued Cash and cash Movement 1 1 1 and borrowings borrowings borrowings liabilities interest equivalents in Net debt US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2017 232 759 2,285 3,276 20 83 3,173 Cash in ow 13 13 716 729 Borrowings cash ow 404 613 209 209 Reclassi cation of borrowings 572 572 Net interest paid 86 86 Movement on accrued interest 5 1 4 4 Net cash in ow out ow 13 173 40 200 4 630 434 Net share purchases 565 565 Fair value gains losses 72 46 26 26 Exchange and other movements 217 24 279 86 8 78 At 31 March 2018 74 956 2,558 3,588 24 156 3,408 Derivatives hedging loans and Current Non-current Total nancing Accrued Cash and cash Movement 1 1 1 borrowings borrowings borrowings liabilities interest equivalents in Net debt US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 79 52 3,068 3,199 20 156 3,023 Cash in ow 23 23 343 366 Borrowings cash ow 106 50 156 156 Reclassi cation of borrowings 600 600 Net interest paid 3 3 70 67 Movement on accrued interest 4 4 Net cash in ow out ow 23 707 554 130 273 143 Net share purchases 353 353 Fair value gains losses 48 29 19 19 Exchange and other movements 128 200 72 7 79 At 31 March 2017 232 759 2,285 3,276 20 83 3,173 1.
Total reported in the Group balance sheet.
Financial assets and liabilities a Available-for-sale financial assets Assets of US$84m 2017: US$57m include listed investments of US$38m 2017: US$36m held in the UK to secure certain unfunded pension arrangements note 32 b and trade investments overseas of US$46m 2017: US$21m.
b Other financial assets and liabilities i Summary 2018 2017 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Assets US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and receivables 8585 15 15 Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings cross-currency swaps 4747 Fair value hedge of borrowings interest rate swaps 11 11 17 17 Derivatives used for hedging 58 58 17 17 Non-hedging derivatives equity swaps 1 1 2 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 1 1 3 3 Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 351 54 1 39 40 Assets at fair value through pro t and loss 451 55 5 40 45 Derivative financial instruments total 4109 113 5 57 62 Total other financial assets 4 194 198 20 57 77 Experian plc 146 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 28.
Financial assets and liabilities continued b Other financial assets and liabilities continued i Summary continued 2018 2017 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings cross-currency swaps 63 51 114 238 238 Derivatives used for hedging 63 51 114 238 238 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 2 2 2 2 Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 6 6 1 11 12 Liabilities at fair value through pro t and loss 8 8 3 11 14 Derivative financial instruments total 71 51 122 3 249 252 Options in respect of non-controlling interests 15 15 12 12 Total other financial liabilities 86 51 137 15 249 264 Amounts recognised in the Group income statement in connection with the Groups hedging instruments are disclosed in note 14.
There is no material diff erence between the fair values and the book values stated above.
Loans and receivables principally comprise amounts due following the disposal of businesses, including accrued interest, and the amount of US$15m at 31 March 2017 is stated after an impairment charge of US$22m in that year.
This charge is reported within the loss for the financial year from discontinued operations note 16 a. ii Fair value and notional principal amounts of derivative financial instruments 2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cross-currency swaps 47 504 114 1,347 238 1,347 Interest rate swaps 65 2,453 6 608 57 2,073 12 930 Equity swaps 19 2 12 Foreign exchange contracts 1297 2 482 3 231 2 194 113 3,273 122 2,437 62 2,316 252 2,471 Notional principal amounts are the amount of principal underlying the contracts at the reporting dates.
iii Off setting derivative financial assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m Reported in the Group balance sheet 113 62 122 252 Related amounts not off set in the Group balance sheet 53 30 53 30 Net amount 60 32 69 222 There are no amounts off set within the assets and liabilities reported in the Group balance sheet.
Financial assets and liabilities continued c Analysis by valuation method for items measured at fair value 2018 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets: Derivatives used for hedging 58 58 17 17 Assets at fair value through pro t and loss 55 55 45 45 Amounts reported as other financial assets note 28 b 113 113 62 62 Available-for-sale note 28 a 38 46 84 36 21 57 38 113 46 197 36 62 21 119 Financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging 114 114 238 238 Liabilities at fair value through pro t and loss 8 39 47 14 14 28 122 39 161 252 14 266 Net financial assets liabilities 38 9 7 36 36 190 7 147 The analysis by level is a requirement of IFRS 13 and the fide nitions are summarised here for completeness: assets and liabilities whose valuations are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities are classi ed as Level 1: assets and liabilities which are not traded in an active market, and whose valuations are derived from available market data that is observable for the asset or liability, are classi ed as Level 2: and assets and liabilities whose valuations are derived from inputs not based on observable market data are classi ed as Level 3.
Level 3 items principally comprise minority shareholdings in unlisted businesses, trade investments, contingent consideration and put and call options associated with corporate transactions.
The inputs used in determining valuations are a mix of earnings and asset valuations, re ecting diff erent contractual arrangements.
There would be no material eff ect on the amounts stated from any reasonably possible change in such inputs at 31 March 2018. d Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets liabilities Year ended 31 March 2018 Year ended 31 March 2017 AvailableContingent AvailableContingent for-sale consideration Other Total for-sale consideration Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 21 2 12 7 10 7 10 7 Additions 30 21 9 15 15 Settlement of contingent consideration 5 5 5 5 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 3 3 Valuation losses gains recognised in Group income statement 2 2 2 2 Disposals 2 2 Currency translation losses recognised directly in Other comprehensive income 5 5 Other 3 1 4 2 2 At 31 March 46 24 15 7 21 2 12 7 Experian plc 148 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 29.
Fair value methodology Information in respect of the fair value of borrowings is included in note 26 a.
There are no material diff erences between the carrying value of the Groups other financial assets and liabilities not measured at fair value and their estimated fair values.
The following assumptions and methods are used to estimate the fair values: the fair values of receivables, payables and cash and cash equivalents are considered to approximate to the carrying amounts: the fair values of short-term borrowings, other than bonds, are considered to approximate to the carrying amounts due to the short maturity terms of such instruments: the fair value of that portion of bonds carried at amortised cost is based on quoted market prices, employing a valuation falling within Level 1 of the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy: the fair values of long-term variable rate bank loans and finance lease obligations are considered to approximate to the carrying amount: and the fair values of other financial assets and liabilities are calculated based on a discounted cash ow analysis, using a valuation methodology falling within Level 2 of the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy.
Contractual undiscounted future cash ows for financial liabilities Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total At 31 March 2018 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Borrowings 1,015 1,276 130 592 8 650 3,671 Net settled derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 822221 17 Gross settled derivative financial instruments: Out ows for derivative contracts 1,166 732 1,898 In ows for derivative contracts 1,100 646 1,746 Gross settled derivative financial instruments 66 86 152 Options in respect of non-controlling interests 15 15 Trade and other payables note 25 b 525 351115 568 Cash out ows 1,629 1,399 133 595 11 656 4,423 Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Over one year two years three years four years five years five years Total At 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Borrowings 829 1,116 677 17 516 3,155 Net settled derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 7 7 1 15 Gross settled derivative financial instruments: Out ows for derivative contracts 231 672 726 1,629 In ows for derivative contracts 243 547 559 1,349 Gross settled derivative financial instruments 12 125 167 280 Options in respect of non-controlling interests 12 12 Trade and other payables note 25 b 421 4 2 1 1 5 434 Cash out ows 1,257 1,252 847 18 517 5 3,896 The table above analyses financial liabilities into maturity groupings, based on the period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash ows, they diff er from the carrying values and fair values.
Contractual undiscounted future cash out ows for derivative financial liabilities in total amount to US$169m 2017: US$295m.
Share incentive plans a Cost of share-based compensation 2018 2017 US$m US$m Share awards 72 58 Share options 4 3 Expense recognised all equity-settled 76 61 Charge credit for associated social security obligations 8 1 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 84 60 The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
Further information on share award arrangements is given in note 31 b.
As the numbers of options granted or outstanding under share option plans and the related charge to the Group income statement are not signi cant, no further disclosures are included in these financial statements.
b Share awards i Summary of arrangements and performance conditions There are three plans under which share awards are currently granted the two Experian Co-investment Plans the CIPs and the Experian Performance Share Plan the PSP.
Awards take the form of a grant of free shares and nil cost options which vest over a service period of three years, with a maximum term generally of the same length, and are settled by share distribution.
The assumption at grant date for employee departures prior to vesting is 20% for certain unconditional awards, which are only made under the PSP.
Other details in respect of conditional awards are given below.
These include an assumed outcome for Benchmark PBT per share growth, as that forms the basis of the Pro t performance condition for awards made.
Performance conditions for vesting Assumed outcome at grant date CIPs 50% Pro t performance assessed against speci ed targets Benchmark PBT per share 88% of target 50% Cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow Cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow 74% to 76% of target PSP 75% Pro t performance assessed against speci ed targets Benchmark PBT per share 81% of target 25% Distribution percentage determined by ranking Total TSR 28% to 50% Shareholder Return TSR relative to a comparator group CIPs For the purposes of IFRS 2, the grant date for these plans is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed.
This is before the number of shares to be awarded is determined but the underlying value of the award is known, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
The value of awarded shares re ects the performance outcome assumed at the date of their issue to participants and is recognised over a four-year period.
The range of performance conditions for awards under these plans is set out below.
The Pro t performance condition requires Benchmark PBT per share growth at the stated percentages over a three-year period.
The cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow performance condition the Cash ow condition is based on cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow over a three-year period.
The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
These are not market-based performance conditions as fide ned by IFRS 2.
Pro t performance condition Cash ow condition Year of award Target Maximum Target Maximum Year ended 31 March 2018 4% per annum 8% per annum US$3.6bn US$4.0bn Year ended 31 March 2017 4% per annum 8% per annum US$3.6bn US$4.0bn Year ended 31 March 2016 4% per annum 8% per annum US$3.6bn US$4.0bn PSP The range of Pro t performance conditions for conditional awards under this plan is the same as those shown in the table immediately above for the CIPs, also measured over a three-year period.
The TSR performance condition is considered a market-based performance condition as fide ned by IFRS 2.
In valuing the awarded shares, TSR is evaluated using a Monte Carlo simulation, with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the three-year period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian plc ordinary shares.
ii Information on share grant valuations Share grants are valued by reference to the market price on the day of award, with no modi cation for dividend distributions or other factors, as participants are entitled to dividend distributions on awarded shares.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on the grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
Awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2018 had a weighted average fair value per share of 15.90 2017: 12.78.
Experian plc 150 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 31.
Share incentive plans continued iii Share awards outstanding 2018 2017 million million At 1 April 13.5 12.2 Grants 5.2 6.2 Forfeitures 1.1 0.7 Lapse of awards 1.0 2.0 Vesting 2.7 2.2 At 31 March 13.9 13.5 Analysis by plan: CIPs 4.7 4.2 PSP conditional awards 4.2 3.6 PSP unconditional awards 5.0 5.7 At 31 March 13.9 13.5 32.
Post-employment bene t plans and related risks An overview of the Groups post-employment bene t plans and the related risks is given below.
The additional information required by IAS 19, which relates only to the Groups fide ned bene t pension plans and post-employment medical bene ts obligations, is set out in note 33. a Funded pension plans The Groups principal fide ned bene t plan is the Experian Pension Scheme, which provides bene ts for certain UK employees but was closed to new entrants in 2009.
This plan has rules which specify the bene ts to be paid, with the level of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement dependent on age, length of service and salary.
As at 31 March 2018, there were 144 active members of this plan, 1,490 deferred members and 2,758 pensioner members.
The Group provides a fide ned contribution plan, the Experian Retirement Savings Plan, to other eligible UK employees.
Under this plan, employee and employer contributions are paid by the Group into an independently administered fund, which is used to fund member pensions at retirement.
As at 31 March 2018, there were 3,366 active members of this plan 2017: 3,538.
Both UK plans are governed by trust deeds, which ensure that their nances and governance are independent from those of the Group.
Trustees are responsible for overseeing the investments and funding of the plans and plan administration.
The UK pensions environment is regulated by The Pensions Regulator whose statutory objectives and regulatory powers are described on its website at www.
A full actuarial funding valuation of the Experian Pension Scheme is carried out every three years, with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2016 by independent quali ed actuaries Mercer Limited, using the projected unit credit method.
There was a small funding fide cit at the date of that valuation.
The next full valuation will be carried out as at 31 March 2019.
Employees in the USA and Brazil have the option to join local fide ned contribution plans and, as at 31 March 2018, there were 4,172 active members in the USA 2017: 4,473 and 1,173 in Brazil 2017: 1,282.
There are no other material funded pension arrangements.
b Unfunded pension arrangements The Groups unfunded pension arrangements are designed to ensure that certain directors and senior managers who are aff ected by the earnings cap, which was introduced by the UK government some years ago to set a ceiling on the amount of bene ts that could be paid by fide ned bene t pension plans, are placed in broadly the same position as those who are not.
There are also unfunded arrangements for Don Robert, a current director of the Company, and certain former directors and employees of Experian Finance plc and Experian Limited.
Certain of these unfunded arrangements in the UK have been secured by the grant to an independent trustee of charges over an independently managed portfolio of marketable securities owned by the Group and reported as available-for-sale financial assets note 28 a. c Post-employment medical bene ts The Group operates a plan which provides post-employment medical bene ts to certain retired employees and their dependant relatives.
This plan relates to former employees in the UK and, under it, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-employment medical bene ts for all eligible former employees who retired prior to 1 April 1994 and their dependants.
Post-employment bene t plans and related risks continued d Related risks Through its fide ned bene t pension plans and post-employment medical bene ts plan, the Group is exposed to a number of risks that are inherent in such plans and arrangements, which can be summarised as follows: asset value volatility, with the associated impact on the assets held in connection with the funding of pension obligations and the related cash ows: changes in bond yields, with any reduction resulting in an increase in the present value of pension obligations, mitigated by an increase in the value of plan assets: in ation, as pension obligations are generally linked to in ation and the prevailing rate of in ation experienced for medical bene ts is typically higher than other in ation measures in the UK: and life expectancy, as pension and medical bene ts are generally provided for the life of bene ciaries and their dependants.
There are no unusual, entity-speci c or plan-speci c risks, and no signi cant concentrations of risk.
Post-employment bene ts IAS 19 information a Post-employment bene t amounts recognised in the Group financial statements i Balance sheet assets obligations 2018 2017 US$m US$m Retirement bene t assets obligations funded plans: Fair value of funded plans assets 1,180 1,041 Present value of funded plans obligations 1,133 1,027 Assets in the Group balance sheet for funded fide ned bene t pensions 47 14 Obligations for unfunded post-employment bene ts: Present value of fide ned bene t pensions unfunded plans 53 49 Present value of post-employment medical bene ts 5 5 Liabilities in the Group balance sheet 58 54 Net post-employment bene t obligations 11 40 Pension assets are deemed to be recoverable and there are no adjustments in respect of minimum funding requirements as, under the Experian Pension Scheme rules, future economic bene ts are available to the Group in the form of reductions in future contributions or refunds of surplus.
ii Income statement charge 2018 2017 US$m US$m By nature of expense: Current service cost 6 5 Administration expenses 2 2 Charge within labour costs 8 7 Charge within operating pro t 8 7 Interest expense 2 1 Total charge to income statement 10 8 The income statement charge and the remeasurement recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income relate to fide ned bene t plans.
Experian plc 152 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 33.
Post-employment bene ts IAS 19 information continued b Movements in net post-employment bene t assets obligations recognised in the balance sheet Present value of obligations Postfide ned bene t fide ned bene t employment Fair value of pensions pensions medical Movements in plan assets funded unfunded bene ts Total net position US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2017 1,041 1,027 49 5 1,081 40 Income statement charge credit: Current service cost 6 6 6 Administration expenses 2 2 2 Interest income expense 26 26 2 28 2 Total charge credit to income statement 26 34 2 36 10 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets other than interest 17 17 Gains from change in demographic assumptions 7 7 7 Gains from change in financial assumptions 3 3 3 Experience gains 1 1 1 Remeasurement of post-employment bene t assets and obligations 17 11 11 28 Diff erences on exchange 134 130 5 135 1 Contributions paid by the Group and employees 14 2 2 12 Bene ts paid 52 49 3 52 At 31 March 2018 1,180 1,133 53 5 1,191 11 Present value of obligations Postfide ned bene t fide ned bene t employment Fair value of pensions pensions medical Movements in plan assets funded unfunded bene ts Total net position US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 1,023 997 49 6 1,052 29 Income statement charge credit: Current service cost 5 5 5 Administration expenses 2 2 2 Interest income expense 31 30 2 32 1 Total charge credit to income statement 31 37 2 39 8 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets other than interest 160 160 Gains from change in demographic assumptions 5 5 5 Losses from change in financial assumptions 200 5 205 205 Experience gains 27 27 27 Remeasurement of post-employment bene t assets and obligations 160 168 5 173 13 Diff erences on exchange 143 139 5 1 145 2 Contributions paid by the Group and employees 10 2 2 8 Bene ts paid 40 38 2 40 At 31 March 2017 1,041 1,027 49 5 1,081 40 Financial statements 153 33.
Post-employment bene ts IAS 19 information continued c Actuarial assumptions and sensitivities The accounting valuations at 31 March 2018 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated by Willis Towers Watson to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The assumptions for the real discount rate, salary increases and mortality, used to calculate the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations, all have a signi cant eff ect on the accounting valuation.
Changes to these assumptions in the light of prevailing conditions may have a signi cant impact on future valuations.
Indications of the sensitivity of the amounts reported at 31 March 2018 to changes in the real discount rate, life expectancy and medical costs are included below.
The methods and types of assumptions used are consistent with those used in the prior year and the absolute sensitivity numbers are stated on a basis consistent with the methodology used in determining the accounting valuation as at 31 March 2018.
The methodology evaluates the eff ect of a change in each assumption on the relevant obligations, while holding all other assumptions constant.
i Financial actuarial assumptions 2018 2017 % % Discount rate 2.4 2.5 In ation rate based on the UK Retail Prices Index the RPI 3.1 3.2 In ation rate based on the UK Consumer Prices Index the CPI 2.1 2.2 Increase in salaries 3.6 3.7 Increase for pensions in payment element based on the RPI where cap is 5% 2.9 3.0 Increase for pensions in payment element based on the CPI where cap is 2.5% 1.7 1.7 Increase for pensions in payment element based on the CPI where cap is 3% 1.8 1.9 Increase for pensions in deferment 2.1 2.2 In ation in medical costs 6.1 6.2 The principal financial assumption is the real discount rate, which is the excess of the discount rate over the rate of in ation.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of a currency and term appropriate to the fide ned bene t obligations.
In the case of the Experian Pension Scheme, the obligations are in pound sterling and have a maturity on average of 18 years.
If the real discount rate increased decreased by 0.1%, the fide ned bene t obligations at 31 March 2018 would decrease increase by approximately US$21m and the annual current service cost would decrease increase by US$0.1m.
The rates of increase for pensions in payment re ect the separate arrangements applying to diff erent groups of Experians pensioners.
ii Mortality assumptions average life expectancy on retirement at age 65 in normal health 2018 2017 years years For a male currently aged 65 22.6 22.8 For a female currently aged 65 24.9 25.0 For a male currently aged 50 23.6 23.8 For a female currently aged 50 26.0 26.1 The accounting valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with standard tables adjusted to re ect the expected experience of the Experian Pension Scheme membership, based on analysis carried out for the 2016 actuarial valuation.
A speci c allowance for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy is also incorporated.
An increase in assumed life expectancy of 0.1 years would increase the fide ned bene t obligations at 31 March 2018 by approximately US$6m.
iii Post-employment medical bene ts The accounting valuation in respect of post-employment medical bene ts assumes a rate of increase for medical costs.
If this rate increased decreased by 1.0% per annum, the obligation at 31 March 2018 and the finance expense would remain unchanged.
iv Increase in salaries An increase of 0.1% to the salary increase rate would increase the obligation at 31 March 2018 by approximately US$1m, and the service charge would remain unchanged.
Experian plc 154 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 33.
Post-employment bene ts IAS 19 information continued d Assets of the Groups fide ned bene t plans at fair value 2018 2017 US$m % US$m % UK equities 13 1 140 14 Overseas equities 380 32 357 34 Index-linked gilts 369 31 288 28 Global corporate bonds 171 15 157 15 Diversi ed growth fund 116 10 96 9 Secured credit 122 10 Other 9 1 3 1,180 100 1,041 100 During the year the Trustee of the Experian Pension Scheme carried out an investment strategy review, with the aim of reducing risk, providing a better cash ow match for bene t payments, and reducing funding volatility.
The new strategy is being implemented and will include an allocation of 15% of the plans assets in less liquid investments.
All other assets are invested in a range of pooled, daily traded, unitised funds.
Until such time as the new investment strategy has been fully implemented, the Trustee has adopted some triggers for accelerating fide-risking the plans investment strategy at opportune times.
The Groups fide ned bene t plans have no material holdings of unlisted assets and no holdings of ordinary shares or borrowings of the Company.
e Future contributions There was a small funding fide cit at the date of the 2016 full actuarial valuation of the Experian Pension Scheme.
To correct the shortfall the employer has agreed to pay fide cit contributions of US$4m per annum over five years from 1 April 2017.
Contributions, including fide cit contributions, currently expected to be paid to this plan during the year ending 31 March 2019 are US$10m by the Group and US$2m by employees.
Deferred and current tax a Deferred tax i Net deferred tax assets liabilities 2018 2017 Notes US$m US$m At 1 April 213 193 Diff erences on exchange 2 6 Tax credit charge in the Group income statement continuing operations 15 a 179 87 Tax credit in the Group income statement discontinued operations 16 a 54 Business combinations 20 17 Tax recognised within Other comprehensive income 6 2 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 3 5 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 Transfers 2 Transfer in respect of liabilities held-for-sale 40 17 At 31 March 66 213 Presented in the Group balance sheet as: Deferred tax assets 140 83 Deferred tax liabilities 206 296 66 213 Tax recognised in Other comprehensive income is in respect of the remeasurement of post-employment bene t assets and obligations.
Deferred and current tax continued ii Movements in gross deferred tax assets and liabilities Share incentive Accelerated Intangibles Tax losses plans depreciation Other Total Assets US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2017 369 90 26 11 257 753 Diff erences on exchange 12 1 1 2 12 Tax recognised in the Group income statement: continuing operations 14 14 8 1 100 63 Tax recognised within Other comprehensive income 6 6 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 3 3 Transfers 1 1 2 At 31 March 2018 372 104 32 14 149 671 Share incentive Accelerated Intangibles Tax losses plans depreciation Other Total Assets US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 329 91 25 14 229 688 Diff erences on exchange 37 1 2 2 36 Tax recognised in the Group income statement: continuing operations 2 46 2 1 1 52 discontinued operations 45 9 54 Business combinations 26 26 Tax recognised within Other comprehensive income 2 2 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 5 5 Transfers 5 1 10 6 At 31 March 2017 369 90 26 11 257 753 Accelerated Intangibles depreciation Other Total Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2017 935 25 6 966 Diff erences on exchange 10 10 Tax recognised in the Group income statement continuing operations 241 1 2 242 Additions through business combinations note 39 a 20 20 Transfers 1 144 Disposal of subsidiary 1 1 At 31 March 2018 703 27 7 737 Accelerated Intangibles depreciation Other Total Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 828 21 32 881 Diff erences on exchange 32 2 30 Tax recognised in the Group income statement continuing operations 35 1 1 35 Additions through business combinations 43 43 Transfer in respect of liabilities held-for-sale note 40 16 1 17 Transfers 13 3 22 6 At 31 March 2017 935 25 6 966 These movements do not take into consideration the off setting of assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction.
Items classi ed as Other assets in the above analyses predominantly relate to future tax bene ts deferred in line with local tax laws.
Experian plc 156 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 34.
Deferred and current tax continued iii Other information on deferred tax assets and liabilities As set out in note 5, there are a number of critical judgments in assessing the recognition of deferred tax assets.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax on losses of US$437m 2017: US$650m that could be utilised against future taxable income and on US$367m 2017: US$37m in respect of capital losses that could be utilised against future taxable gains.
While these losses are available inde nitely, they have arisen in undertakings in which it is not currently anticipated that future bene t will be available from their use.
The capital losses arising on the investments are available for use within five years, and future taxable pro ts against which the capital losses could be utilised are not currently anticipated.
There are retained earnings of US$14,061m 2017: US$13,666m in subsidiary undertakings which would be subject to tax if remitted to Experian plc.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on these earnings because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary diff erence and it is probable that such diff erences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Given the mix of countries and tax rates, it is not practicable to determine the impact of such remittance.
During the current year the main rate of UK corporation tax was 19% 2017: 20%.
It will be reduced further to 17% from 1 April 2020. b Net current tax assets liabilities 2018 2017 Notes US$m US$m At 1 April 124 104 Exchange and other diff erences 14 1 Tax charge in the Group income statement continuing operations 15 a 328 172 Tax charge in the Group income statement discontinued operations 53 9 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 3 2 Additions through business combinations 6 Tax paid on pro t on disposal of subsidiaries 22 Tax paid discontinued operations 9 Other tax paid 191 144 Transfer in respect of liabilities held-for-sale 40 1 Transfer 24 At 31 March 251 124 Presented in the Group balance sheet as: Current tax assets 27 26 Current tax liabilities 278 150 251 124 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners relates to employee share incentive plans.
Provisions 2018 2017 North North America America Legal security Legal security claims incident Other claims incident Other costs costs liabilities Total costs costs liabilities Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 17 4 29 50 27 27 Diff erences on exchange 1 1 3 3 Additions through business combinations note 40 25 25 Amount charged in the year 22 22 11 55 4 11 15 Utilised 17 4 13 34 8 12 20 At 31 March 22 22 26 70 17 4 29 50 Legal claims represent a number of related legal claims.
In the prior year legal claims included CSIdentity Corporation related provisions, which were utilised or released in the year.
The North America security incident costs are fully covered by insurance, with the US$22m provided in the year off set by an equal insurance receivable recognised in other debtors.
Details of the contingent liabilities are given in note 43 a.
Other liabilities principally comprise liabilities of Serasa S. A. in connection with local legal and tax issues, which were primarily recognised on its acquisition in 2007.
Called-up share capital and share premium account At 31 March 2018, there were 980.1m shares in issue 2017: 1,005.6m.
During the year then ended, 1.1m 2017: 0.8m shares were issued and 26.6m 2017: 18.2m shares were cancelled.
Further information on share capital is contained in note O to the Company financial statements.
The diff erence between the amounts shown in the Group and Company financial statements in respect of called-up share capital and the share premium account arose due to translation of sterling amounts into US dollars at diff erent exchange rates on the diff erent translation dates.
Retained earnings and other reserves a Retained earnings Retained earnings comprise net pro ts retained in the Group after the payment of equity dividends.
There are no signi cant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
b Other reserves i Movements in reserves Merger Hedging Translation Own shares Total other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2017 15,682 11 901 1,232 17,804 Purchase of shares by employee trusts 37 37 Exercise of share awards and options 42 42 Currency translation gains 28 28 At 31 March 2018 15,682 11 873 1,227 17,771 Merger Hedging Translation Own shares Total other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 15,682 11 919 1,240 17,830 Purchase of shares by employee trusts 28 28 Exercise of share awards and options 36 36 Currency translation gains 18 18 At 31 March 2017 15,682 11 901 1,232 17,804 ii Nature of reserves The merger reserve arose on the demerger from GUS plc in 2006 and is the diff erence between the share capital and share premium of GUS plc and the nominal value of the share capital of the Company before a share off er at that date.
Movements on the hedging reserve and the position at the balance sheet date re ect hedging transactions which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related tax.
Movements on the translation reserve and the position at the balance sheet date re ect foreign currency translations since 1 April 2004 which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related tax.
The movement in the year ended 31 March 2018 comprises currency translation gains of US$28m 2017: US$18m recognised directly in Other comprehensive income.
The balance on the own shares reserve is the cost of ordinary shares in the Company and further details are given in note 37 b iii.
The diff erence between the amounts shown in the Group and Company financial statements in respect of this reserve arose due to translation of pound sterling amounts into the US dollar at diff erent exchange rates on diff erent translation dates.
Experian plc 158 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 37.
Retained earnings and other reserves continued iii Movements in own shares held and own shares reserve Number of own shares held Cost of own shares held Treasury Trusts Total Treasury Trusts Total million million million US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2017 62 13 75 997 235 1,232 Purchase of shares by employee trusts 2 2 37 37 Exercise of share options and awards 3 3 5 37 42 At 31 March 2018 62 12 74 992 235 1,227 Number of own shares held Cost of own shares held Treasury Trusts Total Treasury Trusts Total million million million US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 63 14 77 1,008 232 1,240 Purchase of shares by employee trusts 1 1 28 28 Exercise of share options and awards 1 2 3 11 25 36 At 31 March 2017 62 13 75 997 235 1,232 38.
Notes to the Group cash ow statement a Cash generated from operations 2018 2017 Notes US$m US$m Pro t before tax 994 1,071 Share of post-tax pro t of associates 8 4 Net finance costs 109 8 Operating pro t 1,095 1,075 Pro t on disposals of xed assets 17 9 Depreciation and amortisation 11 438 426 Charge in respect of share incentive plans 76 61 Increase in working capital 38 b 70 39 Acquisition expenses diff erence between income statement charge and amount paid 5 3 Fair value gain on revaluation of step acquisition 4 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 3 Movement in Exceptional items included in working capital 3 8 Cash generated from operations 1,529 1,525 Depreciation and amortisation includes amortisation of acquisition intangibles of US$112m 2017: US$104m which is excluded from Benchmark PBT.
b Increase in working capital 2018 2017 US$m US$m Inventories 1 Trade and other receivables 142 59 Trade and other payables 72 19 Increase in working capital 70 39 2018 2017 c Purchase of other intangible assets US$m US$m Databases 192 94 Internally generated software 129 38 Internal use software 39 187 Purchase of other intangible assets 360 319 Financial statements 159 38.
Notes to the Group cash ow statement continued d Cash ows on acquisitions non-GAAP measure 2018 2017 Note US$m US$m Purchase of subsidiaries 39 a 147 380 Net cash acquired with subsidiaries 39 a 6 22 Deferred consideration settled 5 5 As reported in the Group cash ow statement 146 363 Acquisition expenses paid 15 13 Payments to acquire non-controlling interests 8 9 Cash out ow for acquisitions non-GAAP measure 169 385 e Cash out ow in respect of net share purchases non-GAAP measure 2018 2017 US$m US$m Issue of ordinary shares 16 11 Purchase of shares by employee trusts 37 28 Purchase and cancellation of own shares 544 336 Cash out ow in respect of net share purchases non-GAAP measure 565 353 As reported in the Group cash ow statement: Cash in ow in respect of net share purchases 16 11 Cash out ow in respect of net share purchases 581 364 565 353 f Analysis of cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents in the Group balance sheet 156 83 Bank overdrafts 19 2 Cash and cash equivalents in the Group cash ow statement 137 81 g Reconciliation of Cash generated from operations to Benchmark operating cash ow non-GAAP measure 2018 2017 Note US$m US$m Cash generated from operations 38 a 1,529 1,525 Purchase of other intangible assets 38 c 360 319 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 71 80 Sale of property, plant and equipment 26 15 Acquisition expenses paid 15 13 Dividends received from associates 3 3 Cash in ow out ow in respect of Exceptional items 54 8 Benchmark operating cash ow non-GAAP measure 1,196 1,149 Benchmark free cash ow for the year ended 31 March 2018, as set out in the Financial review within the Strategic report, was US$915m 2017: US$933m.
Cash ow conversion for the year ended 31 March 2018 was 93% 2017: 96%.
Experian plc 160 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 39.
Acquisitions a Acquisitions in the year The Group made three acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2018, in connection with which provisional goodwill of US$133m was recognised based on the fair value of the net assets acquired of US$58m.
The Group acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Clarity Services, Inc.
Clarity, a leading credit bureau servicing the sub-prime market, based in the USA, on 6 October 2017, for a purchase consideration of US$109m, net of cash acquired.
Claritys products are highly complementary to Experians and include unique credit data and insights into over 60m individuals.
The acquisition reinforces our position as the leading national credit bureau, striving to support 100% of US consumers.
Net assets acquired, goodwill and acquisition consideration are analysed below.
Clarity Services, Inc. Other Total US$m US$m US$m Intangible assets: Customer and other relationships 21 17 38 Software development 24 11 35 Marketing-related assets 415 Intangible assets 49 29 78 Property, plant and equipment 1 1 Trade and other receivables 66 12 Deferred tax 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 426 Trade and other payables 11 7 18 Loans and borrowings 2 2 Deferred tax liabilities 14 6 20 Total identi able net assets 36 22 58 Goodwill 77 56 133 Total 113 78 191 Satis ed by: Cash 104 43 147 Fair value of 25% associate stake 17 17 Deferred and contingent consideration 9 18 27 Total 113 78 191 These provisional fair values contain amounts which will be nalised no later than one year after the date of acquisition.
Provisional amounts have been included at 31 March 2018 as a consequence of the timing and complexity of the acquisitions.
Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforces and future growth potential of the businesses.
None of the goodwill arising in the year of US$133m is currently deductible for tax purposes.
The contingent consideration arrangement in respect of Clarity Services, Inc. and one of the immaterial acquisitions requires payments to the former owners based on the achievement of revenue targets.
For the contingent consideration in respect of Clarity Services, Inc. the payments are due at the end of each year for three years following acquisition, and the potential amount that the Group could be required to pay under this arrangement is between US$nil and US$32m.
For the other acquisition, payments are due at the end of each of the first three years following acquisition, and the potential amount that the Group could be required to make under this arrangement is between US$nil and US$21m.
The fair value of this consideration has been estimated during the year and an increase of US$3m has been recognised in the Group income statement based on the latest forecast of business performance.
Fair value measurements of contingent consideration are categorised as Level 3 as fide ned in IFRS 13 Fair value measurement.
There have been no other material gains, losses, error corrections or other adjustments recognised in the year ended 31 March 2018 that related to acquisitions in the current or prior years.
Acquisitions continued b Additional information i Current year acquisitions Clarity Services, Inc. Other Total US$m US$m US$m Increase in book value from fair value adjustments: Intangible assets 49 29 78 Net deferred tax liabilities 14 6 20 Increase in book value from fair value adjustments 35 23 58 Gross contractual amounts receivable in respect of trade and other receivables 56 11 Pro-forma revenue from 1 April 2017 to date of acquisition 23 3 26 Revenue from date of acquisition to 31 March 2018 23 10 33 Pro t before tax from date of acquisition to 31 March 2018 112 At the date of acquisition, the gross contractual amounts receivable in respect of trade and other receivables of US$11m were expected to be collected in full.
If the transactions had occurred on the first day of the financial year, then estimated additional contribution to Group revenues would have been US$26m and the pro t before tax would have been US$1m.
ii Prior year acquisitions The Group acquired the whole of the issued share capital of CSIdentity Corp. during the year ended 31 March 2017 and a cash out ow of US$358m was reported in the Group cash ow statement for that year, after deduction of US$22m in respect of net cash acquired.
There was also deferred consideration settled of US$5m on acquisitions made prior to 31 March 2015.
There have been no material gains, losses, error corrections or other adjustments recognised in the year ended 31 March 2018 that relate to acquisitions made prior to 31 March 2016. iii Future acquisitions On 15 March 2018, we agreed to acquire 100% of the share capital of ClearScore Credit Laser Holdings Limited for US$385m.
The transaction is expected to complete during the year ended 31 March 2019, subject to UK regulatory approval.
Assets and liabilities classi ed as held-for-sale In March 2017 Experian agreed to divest CCM, a process which was completed on 31 May 2017.
The assets and liabilities of this business were therefore classi ed as held-for-sale at 31 March 2017.
2017 US$m Assets classi ed as held-for-sale: Goodwill 214 Other intangible assets 50 Property, plant and equipment 18 Trade receivables 54 Other prepayments and accrued income 20 Current tax asset 2 Assets classi ed as held-for-sale 358 Liabilities classi ed as held-for-sale: Trade payables 7 Accruals and deferred income 24 Other payables 7 Current tax liability 3 Deferred tax liability 17 Liabilities classi ed as held-for-sale 58 Experian plc 162 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 41.
Disposals a Pro t on disposal On 31 May 2017 Experian completed the divestment of CCM: US$m Net assets disposed of book value at date of disposal: Goodwill 214 Other intangible assets 50 Property, plant and equipment 17 Trade and other receivables 73 Deferred tax assets 2 Trade and other payables 10 Accruals and deferred income 13 Current tax liabilities 3 Deferred tax liabilities 17 Net assets disposed of 313 Disposal proceeds: Net cash proceeds after consideration of working capital adjustments and mutual transaction costs 270 Promissory note 75 Share of divested business 31 Transaction costs and provisions 9 Total net proceeds 367 Pro t on disposal 54 b Cash in ow from disposals Comparison shopping and lead generation CCM businesses Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Proceeds received in cash 270 2 272 Transaction costs 7 7 Proceeds from loan note 15 15 Net cash in ow 263 15 2 280 In the year ended 31 March 2018, we divested CCM and received the remaining value of the loan note receivable in relation to the disposal of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses in 2012.
In addition, we divested a small North America based business, the proceeds of which were US$2m.
Commitments a Operating lease commitments 2018 2017 US$m US$m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable: In less than one year 53 57 Between one and five years 128 90 In more than five years 55 35 236 182 The Group leases offi ces, vehicles and technology under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The charge for the year was US$54m 2017: US$60m.
b Capital commitments 2018 2017 US$m US$m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Intangible assets 13 19 Property, plant and equipment 14 14 27 33 Capital commitments at 31 March 2018 include commitments of US$8m not expected to be incurred before 31 March 2019.
Commitments as at 31March 2017 included US$13m not then expected to be incurred before 31 March 2018.
Contingencies a North America security incident In September 2015, Experian North America suff ered an unauthorised intrusion to its Decision Analytics computing environment that allowed unauthorised acquisition of certain data belonging to a client, T-Mobile USA, Inc. We noti ed the individuals who may have been aff ected and off ered free credit monitoring and identity theft resolution services.
In addition, government agencies were noti ed as required by law.
The costs of directly responding to this incident were re ected in a US$20m income statement charge in the year ended 31 March 2016.
We have received a number of class actions and other related claims in respect of the incident and are working with regulators and government bodies as part of their investigations.
It is currently not possible to predict the scope and eff ect on the Group of these various regulatory and government investigations and legal actions, including their timing and scale.
In the event of unfavourable outcomes, the Group may bene t from applicable insurance recoveries.
b Brazil tax As previously indicated, Serasa S. A. has been advised that the Brazilian tax authorities are challenging the deduction for tax purposes of goodwill amortisation arising from its acquisition by Experian in 2007.
In August 2017, the Brazilian courts ultimately upheld Experians position in respect of the tax years from 2007 to 2010 with no further right of appeal.
The Brazilian tax authorities have raised a similar assessment in respect of the 2011 and 2012 tax years, in which approximately US$50m was claimed, and may raise similar claims in respect of other years.
The possibility of this resulting in a liability to the Group is believed to be remote, on the basis of the advice of external legal counsel, success in the first case and other factors in respect of the claim.
c Other litigations and claims There continue to be a number of pending and threatened litigation and other claims involving the Group across all its major geographies which are being vigorously defended.
The directors do not believe that the outcome of any such claims will have a materially adverse eff ect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal, regulatory and administrative proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes that may be unfavourable to the Group.
In the case of unfavourable outcomes, the Group may bene t from applicable insurance recoveries.
Experian plc 164 Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued 44.
Principal subsidiary undertakings and related party transactions a Principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2018 Company Principal activity Country of incorporation Experian Finance plc Holding company and administrative services England and Wales Experian Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales Experian Limited Information services England and Wales Experian Technology Limited Development of intellectual property England and Wales Serasa S. A.
Information services Brazil Experian Colombia S. A.
Information services Colombia Experian Holdings Ireland Limited Holding company Ireland Experian Ireland Investments Limited Holding company Ireland ConsumerInfo.
com Inc. Consumer services USA Experian Health, Inc. Information services USA Experian Holdings, Inc. Holding company USA Experian Information Solutions Inc. Information services USA Experian Marketing Solutions Inc. Marketing services USA Experian Services Corp.
Administrative services USA The above table shows the Companys signi cant subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2018 and for the year then ended.
The Company holds direct or indirect interests in the whole of the issued ordinary shares of these undertakings apart from Serasa S. A. in which its interest is 99.7%.
A full list of the Companys related undertakings, including subsidiary undertakings, is given in note R to the Company financial statements.
There are no signi cant non-controlling interests.
b Transactions with associates A full list of associate undertakings is given in note R iv to the Company financial statements.
During the year an additional associate undertaking was created following the divestment of CCM disclosed in note 41.
As a result of this transaction, the Group now owns 25% of the issued share capital of Vector CM Holdings Cayman, L. P. Vector, a partnership incorporated in Cayman Islands.
During the year ended 31 March 2018 the Group entered into the following transactions with Vector and its subsidiaries: Transaction amount Balance owed to Experian To 31 March 2018 To 31 March 2017 At 31 March 2018 At 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m Promissory note 78 78 Interest on promissory note 2 2 Transitional Services Arrangement TSA fees 15 1 Net amounts exchanged and due under the TSA 3 2 98 83 The promissory note is due and payable to Experian on 31 May 2024 with interest also payable on this date.
A TSA is in place between the Group and Vector to provide services to the partnership for a period of 12 months unless terminated earlier or an agreement to extend is executed.
During the year ended 31 March 2018 and until the conclusion of the TSA, we process transactions on behalf of Vector.
We receive a pre-agreed fee for the execution of the TSA and do not receive any margin on individual transactions.
Details of amounts arising from the TSA are shown in the table below.
Transaction amount Balance owed to Vector To 31 March 2018 To 31 March 2017 At 31 March 2018 At 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash received on behalf of Vector 77 6 Transaction amount Balance owed to Experian To 31 March 2018 To 31 March 2017 At 31 March 2018 At 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash paid on behalf of Vector 80 8 The Group also acquired a 25% stake in London & Country Mortgages Limited.
No material transactions have been entered into with the associate since the date of investment.
Principal subsidiary undertakings and related party transactions continued c Transactions with other related undertakings The Group transacts with a number of related undertakings in connection with the operation of its share incentive plans, pension arrangements in the UK, the USA and Brazil, and the provision of medical cover in the UK.
These undertakings are listed in note R v to the Company financial statements.
Transactional relationships can be summarised as follows: The assets, liabilities and expenses of the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Share Plan and The Experian plc Employee Share Trust are included in the financial statements.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, US$52m 2017: US$47m was paid by the Group to related undertakings, in connection with the provision of post-employment pensions bene ts in the UK, US and Brazil.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, US$2m 2017: US$2m was paid by the Group to Experian Medical Plan Limited, in connection with the provision of healthcare bene ts.
There were no other material transactions or balances with these related undertakings during the current or prior year.
d Remuneration of key management personnel 2018 2017 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee bene ts 9 10 Share incentive plans 10 7 Pension payments 1 1 20 18 Key management personnel comprises the Companys executive and non-executive directors and further details of their remuneration are given in the audited parts of the Report on directors remuneration.
There were no other material transactions with the Group in which the key management personnel had a personal interest, in either the current or prior year.
Events occurring after the end of the reporting period Details of the second interim dividend announced since the end of the reporting period are given in note 18.
