Information Information for Shar for Shareholders eholders Performance information residents on dividend income received in their entire share portfolios is 2,000. Dividend income received in excess of this Information on the Companys performance is provided in the amount will be taxed at rates of 7.5% basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% half-yearly and final reports which are sent to shareholders in higher rate taxpayers or 38.1% additional rate taxpayers.
The December and June respectively.
More up-to-date performance allowance for the year ended 5 April 2018 was 5,000. information is available on the Internet at www.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC F&C website at fandc.
com also provides a monthly update on the F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC is a member of the AIC, a Companys geographic spread and largest holdings, along with trade body of the investment trust industry, which provides a range comments from the Lead Manager.
of literature including fact sheets and a monthly statistical Key Information Documents information service.
For further details, please contact the AIC on The Key Information Documents relating to the Companys 020 7282 5555, or visit the website: theaic.
ordinary shares and CULS can be found on its website at www.
These documents have been Unclaimed dividends produced in accordance with the EUs Packaged Retail and The Company has appointed Georgeson a trading division of our Insurance-based Investment Products Regulations.
Registrars to carry out an exercise to locate shareholders, or their beneficiaries, who have lost track of or are unaware of their Net asset value and share price investments.
This service is provided at no cost to the Company: The Companys net asset value is released daily, on the working day Georgeson retain 10% of unclaimed dividends from the following the calculation date, to the London Stock Exchange.
The shareholder on completion of each successful claim.
Alternatively, current share price of F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC is shown shareholders are given the option of contacting the Registrar in the investment trust section of the stock market page in most themselves, thereby incurring no charges.
leading newspapers, usually under F&C Global Smaller Cos. Common reporting standards UK capital gains tax CGT Tax legislation requires investment trust companies to provide An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
information annually to the local tax authority on the tax residencies UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to of a number of non-UK based certificated Shareholders and 11,700 in the tax year ended 5 April 2019 without incurring any corporate entities who have purchased shares in investment trusts.
All new shareholders, excluding those whose shares are held in CREST, are sent a certification form for the purposes of collecting A rate of CGT of 10% will apply where taxable income and gains this information.
do not exceed the income tax higher rate threshold 34,500 in 201819 tax year.
A higher rate of 20% will apply to those whose For further information, please see HMRCs Quick Guide: income and gains exceed this figure.
Automatic Exchange of Information information for account holders gov.
uk government publications exchange-ofIncome tax .
The final dividend of 10.00 pence per share is payable on 8 August 2018.
From 6 April 2018 the annual tax-free allowance to UK Warning to Shareholders Beware of Share Fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
If you receive unsolicited investment advice or requests: Check the Financial Services Register from fca.
uk to see if the person or firm Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have contacting you is authorised by the FCA access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Call the Financial Conduct Authority FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not Scheme have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date Think about getting independent financial and professional advice Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at fca.
uk scams If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA by using the share fraud reporting form at fca.
uk scams where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Registered in England and Wales with Company Registration No.
