Notes on Notes on the Accounts the Accounts 1.
General information F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC is an investment company incorporated in the United Kingdom with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company registration number is 28264 and the registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify as an investment trust under the provisions of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 section 1158.
Approval of the Company under section 1158 has been received.
The Company intends to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to continue to comply with the requirements.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK Corporation Tax on gains realised on its portfolio of fixed asset investments.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Financial Reporting Standard FRS 102 applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in November 2014 and updated in February 2018.
There has been no impact on the basis of accounting as a result of this update.
The functional and presentational currency of the Company is pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
In accordance with the SORP, the Income Statement has been analysed between a revenue account dealing with items of a revenue nature and a capital account relating to items of a capital nature.
Revenue returns include, but are not limited to, dividend income and operating expenses and tax insofar as the expenses and tax are not allocated to capital, as described in note 2 b below.
Net revenue returns are allocated via the revenue account to the revenue reserve, out of which interim and final dividend payments are made.
Capital returns include, but are not limited to, realised and unrealised profits and losses on fixed asset investments and currency profits and losses on cash and borrowings.
The Companys Articles prohibit the distribution of net capital returns by way of dividend.
Such returns are allocated via the capital account to the capital reserves.
Dividends paid to equity shareholders are shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
b Principal accounting policies The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the year.
i Financial instruments Financial instruments include fixed asset investments, derivative assets and liabilities, long-term debt instruments, cash and shortterm deposits, debtors and creditors.
Accounting standards recognise a hierarchy of fair value measurements for financial instruments measured at fair value on the Balance Sheet which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs level 3.
The classification of financial instruments depends on the lowest significant applicable input, as follows: Level 1 The unadjusted quoted price in an active market for identical assets or liabilities that the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable ie developed using market data for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Inputs are unobservable ie for which market data is unavailable for the asset or liability.
ii Fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments.
As an investment trust, the Company measures its fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss and treats all transactions on the realisation and revaluation of investments and derivative financial instruments as transactions on the capital account.
Purchases are recognised on the relevant trade date, inclusive of expenses which are incidental to their acquisition.
Sales are also recognised on the trade date, after deducting expenses incidental to the sales.
