Management Management and Advisers and Advisers The Management Company Secretary and Companys Registered Stockbrokers F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC Office Stifel Nicolaus Europe Limited, the Company is managed by F&C F&C Investment Business Limited, 150 Cheapside, London EC2V 6ET Investment Business Limited FCIB or Exchange House, Primrose Street, London the Manager, a wholly-owned subsidiary EC2A 2NY Trustee for CULS holders of F&C Asset Management Group F&C The Law Debenture Trust Corporation plc which is ultimately owned by Bank of Telephone: 020 7628 8000 Fifth Floor, 100 Wood Street, London Montreal BMO.
FCIB is appointed Facsimile: 020 7628 8188 EC2V 7EX under a management agreement with the Website: fandc.
com Company, setting out its responsibilities for Email: info@fandc.
com investment management, administration and marketing.
As Manager, it is authorised Independent Auditors and regulated in the UK by the Financial  LLP PwC or Conduct Authority.
the auditors, 7 More London Riverside, London SE1 2RT The Manager also acts as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM under Custodian the AIFMD.
JPMorgan Chase Bank the Custodian, 25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London Peter Ewins, Lead Manager: Responsible E14 5JP for the UK equity portfolio, selection of collective funds for Japan, Asia, Emerging Depositary Markets and overall asset allocation.
He JPMorgan Europe Limited the Depositary, joined F&C in 1996.
25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP Nish Patel: Responsible for the US portfolio.
Share Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC Sam Cosh: Responsible for the European the Registrar, portfolio.
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ Jan Baker: Represents the Manager as Telephone: 0370 889 4088 Company Secretary and is responsible for Authorised and regulated in the UK by the the Companys statutory compliance.
Solicitors Marrack Tonkin: Head of Investment Trusts Dickson Minto WS, Broadgate Tower, of F&C Asset Management plc.
He has 20 Primrose Street, London EC2A 2EW responsibility for F&Cs relationship with the Company.
