Glossary Glossary of T of Terms erms AAF Report Report prepared in accordance with Audit and Assurance Faculty guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Administrator The administrator is State Street Bank and Trust Company to which F&C has outsourced trade processing, valuation and middle office tasks and systems.
AIFMD Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Issued by the European Parliament in 2012 and 2013, the Directive requires that all investment vehicles AIFs in the European Union, including Investment Trusts, must appoint a Depositary and an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The Board of Directors of an Investment Trust, nevertheless, remains fully responsible for all aspects of the Companys strategy, operations and compliance with regulations.
The Companys AIFM is F&C Investment Business Limited FCIB, a wholly-owned subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc and ultimately BMO.
APMs Alternative Performance Measures are financial measures of historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows, other than financial measures defined or specified in the applicable accounting framework.
Guidelines published by the European Securities and Markets Authority aim to improve comparability, reliability and comprehensibility by way of APMs.
BMO Bank of Montreal, which is the ultimate parent company of F&C.
Benchmark a blend of two Indices, namely the MSCI All Country World ex UK Small Cap Index 70% and the Numis UK Smaller Companies ex investment companies Index 30%.
This Benchmark, against which the increase or decrease in the Companys net asset value is compared, measures the performance of a defined selection of smaller companies listed in stock markets around the world and gives an indication of how those companies have performed in any period.
Divergence between the performance of the Company and the Benchmark is to be expected as: the investments within this Index are not identical to those of the Company: the Index does not take account of operating costs: and the Companys strategy does not entail replicating tracking this Benchmark.
Closed-end company a company, including an Investment Company, with a fixed issued ordinary share capital the shares of which are traded on an exchange at a price not necessarily related to the net asset value of the company and which can only be issued or bought back by the company in certain circumstances.
CULS 3.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock 2019 issued in July 2014 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The CULS can be bought and sold on the LSE and can be converted at specified dates into the Companys ordinary shares.
Cum-dividend shares are classified as cum-dividend when the buyer of a security is entitled to receive a dividend that has been declared, but not paid.
Shares which are not cum-dividend are described as ex-dividend.
Custodian The Custodian is JP Morgan Chase Bank.
The Custodian is a financial institution responsible for safeguarding, worldwide, the listed securities and certain cash assets of the Company, as well as the income arising therefrom, through provision of custodial, settlement and associated services.
Depositary The Depositary is JPMorgan Europe Limited.
Under AIFMD rules, the Company must appoint a Depositary, whose duties in respect of investments, cash and similar assets include: safekeeping: verification of ownership and valuation: and cash monitoring.
Under the AIFMD rules, the Depositary has strict liability for the loss of the Companys financial assets in respect of which it has safekeeping duties.
The Depositarys oversight duties will include but are not limited to oversight of share buybacks, dividend payments and adherence to investment limits.
Distributable Reserves Reserves distributable by way of dividend or for the purpose of buying back ordinary share capital see notes 2, 16, 17 and 19 on the accounts.
Company Law requires that Share Capital and the Capital Redemption Reserve may not be distributed.
The Companys articles of association allow distributions by way of dividend out of Capital Reserves.
Dividend payments are currently made out of Revenue Reserve.
The cost of all share buybacks is deducted from Capital Reserves.
Dividend Dates Reference is made in announcements of dividends to three dates.
The record date is the date after which buyers of the shares will not be recorded on the register of shareholders as qualifying for the pending dividend payment.
The payment date is the date 86 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION that dividends are credited to shareholders bank accounts.
The ex-dividend date is normally the business day prior to the record date most ex-dividend dates are on a Thursday.
F&C F&C Asset Management plc and its subsidiaries including the Manager.
F&C Savings Plans the F&C Private Investor Plan, F&C Childrens Investment Plan, F&C Investment Trust ISA, F&C Junior ISA and F&C Child Trust Fund operated by F&C Management Limited, a company authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This includes UK GAAP and International GAAP IFRS or International Financial Reporting Standards applicable in the European Union.
Investment Company Section 833 UK Company Law allows an Investment Company to make dividend distributions out of realised distributable reserves, even in circumstances where it has made Capital losses in any year, provided the Companys assets remaining after payment of the dividend exceed 150% of the liabilities.
An Investment Company is defined as investing its funds in shares, land or other assets with the aim of spreading investment risk.
Investment Trust taxation status Section 1158 UK Corporation Tax law allows an Investment Company referred to in Tax law as an Investment Trust to be exempted from tax on its profits realised on investment transactions, provided it complies with certain rules.
These are similar to Section 833 Company law rules but further require that the Company must be listed on a regulated stock exchange and that it cannot retain more than 15% of income received.
The Directors Report contains confirmation of the Companys compliance with this law and its consequent exemption from taxation on capital gains.
ISAE Report Report prepared in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements.
Leverage as defined under AIFMD rules, leverage is any method by which the exposure of an AIF being an investment vehicle under the AIFMD is increased through borrowing of cash or securities or leverage embedded in derivative positions.
Leverage is broadly equivalent to gearing, but is expressed as a ratio between the assets excluding borrowings and the net assets after taking account of borrowings.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after deduction of cash balances, without taking account of any hedging or netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
Manager AIFM F&C Investment Business Limited FCIB, a subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc, which in turn is wholly owned by the Bank of Montreal Group BMO.
The responsibilities and remuneration of FCIB are set out in the Business Model, Directors Report and note 4 on the accounts.
Non-executive Director a Director who has a contract for services, rather than a contract of employment, with the Company.
The Company does not have any executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors remuneration is described in detail in the Remuneration Report.
The duties of the Directors, who govern the Company through the auspices of a Board and Committees of the Board, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Open-ended Fund a collective investment scheme which issues shares or units directly to investors, and redeems directly from investors, at a price that is linked to the net asset value of the fund.
SORP Statement of Recommended Practice.
The accounts of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Investment Trust SORP, issued by the AIC, as described in note 2 on the accounts.
Special Dividends dividends received from investee companies which have been paid out of capital reconstructions or reorganisations of the investees are sometimes referred to as Special Dividends and may be allocated to Capital Reserves in accordance with the Companys accounting policies and the SORP.
Dividends which are unusually large in terms of the investee companies annual earnings or normal payment pattern are also sometimes referred to as special but are treated as revenue in nature unless the evidence suggests otherwise.
Trust Deed the trust deed between the Company and the Trustee constituting the CULS.
Trustee The Law Debenture Trust Corporation plc.
UK Code of Corporate Governance UK Code the standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders that all companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange are required to report on in their annual report and accounts.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 87 F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Registered office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY Tel: 020 7628 8000 Fax: 020 7628 8188 www.
com Registrars: Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ Tel: 0370 889 4088 Fax: 0870 703 6143 www.
