OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION Alter Alternative native Performance Measur Performance Measures es The Company uses the following Alternative Performance Measures APMs throughout the annual report, financial statements and notes to the financial statements.
The APMs are reconciled to the financial statements through the narrative detailed below.
The Board believes that each of the APMs, which are typically used within the investment trust sector, provide additional useful information to the shareholders in order to assess the Companys performance between reporting periods and against its peer group.
Diluted Net Asset Value assumes that the CULS are converted into ordinary shares at the rate of 977.697 pence per 1 nominal CULS value see Net Asset Value and note 20 on the accounts.
Discount Premium the share price of an Investment Trust is derived from buyers and sellers trading their shares on the stock market.
This price is not identical to NAV per share of the underlying assets less liabilities of the Company.
If the share price is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
Shares trading at a price above NAV per share are said to be at a premium.
The Board of the Company tries to ensure that the shares trade, in normal market conditions, at around the value of the net assets.
This is done by means of buying shares from sellers at the below-NAV price and placing them in Treasury or cancelling them or selling new shares to shareholders at a premium to NAV.
The Boards policy is set out on page 10.
Gearing this is the ratio of the borrowings of the Company to its net assets.
Borrowings have a prior charge over the assets of a company, ranking before ordinary shareholders in their entitlement to capital and or income.
They include: CULS: preference shares: debentures: overdrafts and short and long-term loans from banks: and derivative contracts.
If the Company has cash assets, these may be assumed either to net off against borrowings, giving a net or effective gearing percentage, or to be used to buy investments, giving a gross or fully invested gearing figure.
Where cash assets exceed borrowings, the Company is described as having net cash.
The Companys maximum permitted level of gearing is set by the Board and is described within the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
Net Asset Value NAV the assets less liabilities of the Company, as set out in the Balance Sheet, all valued in accordance with the Companys Accounting Policies see note 2 on the accounts and UK Accounting Standards.
The net assets correspond to Total Shareholders Funds, which comprise the share capital account, capital redemption reserve, CULS reserve and capital and revenue reserves.
See calculation in note 20 on the accounts.
Ongoing Charges all operating costs expected to be regularly incurred and that are payable by the Company or suffered within underlying investee fund, expressed as a proportion of the average net assets of the Company over the reporting year see Ten Year Record.
The costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives are excluded, as are interest costs, taxation, non-recurring costs and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Total Expense Ratio TER an alternative measure of expenses to Ongoing Charges.
It comprises all operating costs incurred in the reporting period by the Company see notes 4 and 5 page 60 on the accounts, calculated as a percentage of the average net assets in that year see Ten Year Record.
Operating costs exclude costs suffered within underlying investee funds, costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives, interest costs, taxation and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Total Return the return to shareholders calculated on a per share basis by adding dividends paid in the period to the increase or decrease in the Share Price or Diluted NAV in the period.
The dividends are assumed to have been re-invested in the form of shares or net assets, respectively, on the date on which the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
