Notice of Notice of Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty-ninth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Chartered Accountants Hall, 1 Moorgate Place, London EC2R 6EA on Thursday 26 July 2018 at 12 noon for the following purposes: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions 1 to 13 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a as ordinary resolutions: special resolution: 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and accounts for the 14.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights year ended 30 April 2018.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 13 above and in 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
substitution for any existing authority, but without prejudice 3.
To approve the Directors Annual Remuneration Report.
to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, 4.
To declare a final dividend of 10.00 pence per share.
the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant to 5.
To re-elect Andrew Adcock as a Director.
sections 570 and 573 of the Act, to allot equity securities within 6.
To re-elect Anja Balfour as a Director.
the meaning of section 560 of the Act either pursuant to the 7.
To re-elect Josephine Dixon as a Director.
authority conferred by resolution 13 for cash or by way of a sale 8.
To re-elect David Stileman as a Director.
of treasury shares as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply 9.
To re-elect Anthony Townsend as a Director.
to any such allotment or transfer, provided this power shall be 10.
To re-elect Jane Tozer as a Director.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer Company.
To authorise the Audit and Management Engagement i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 13.
Authority to allot shares ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, but without rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the consider necessary, date hereof, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and so that the Directors may impose any limits or and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section restrictions and make any arrangements which they 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to exercise all the consider necessary or appropriate to deal with any treasury powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and shares, fractional entitlements or securities represented to grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, by depositary receipts, record dates, legal, regulatory or shares in the Company together being relevant securities up practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,493,250 representing the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange approximately 10% of the issue share capital of the Company or any other matter: and excluding treasury shares, during the period commencing on b the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a of this the date of the passing of this resolution and expiring at the Resolution 14 of equity securities up to an aggregate conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in nominal amount of 1,493,250, and shall expire at the 2019 or on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the resolution whichever is earlier, unless previously revoked, Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry varied or extended by the Company in a general meeting the of 15 months from the passing of this resolution whichever relevant period : save that the Company may at any time is the earlier, unless extended by the Company in a general prior to the expiry of this authority make offers or enter into meeting the relevant period save that the Company agreements which would or might require relevant securities may at any time prior to the expiry of this authority make to be allotted after the expiry of the relevant period and offers or enter into agreements which would or might notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot relevant require equity securities to be allotted or transferred after securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
the expiry of the relevant period and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot or transfer equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
76 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION NOTICE OF MEETING To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a of such authority and the Company may purchase ordinary special resolution: shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts as if the 15.
Share buyback authority authority conferred hereby had not expired.
THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, but without To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the ordinary resolution: date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and 16.
Treasury shares unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in accordance THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 14 set out above, the with section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases within Directors be and they are hereby authorised, for the purposes the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid ordinary of paragraph 15.4.
11 of the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary Listing Authority, to sell or transfer out of treasury equity shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors securities for cash at a price below the net asset value per may from time to time determine, provided that: share of the existing ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised shares pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 14, to be purchased shall be 8,953,000 or, if less, 14.99% of provided that the discount at which such equity securities are the number of ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury sold or transferred out of treasury is: i always less than the shares as at the date of the passing of this resolution: weighted average discount at which the equity securities held in b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be treasury have been purchased: and ii no more than 5% of the paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p: prevailing net asset value per share.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a paid for an ordinary share is the higher of i an amount special resolution: equal to 105% of the average of the middle market 17.
General Meeting Notice quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five unconditionally authorised to hold general meetings other business days immediately preceding the date on which than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice, such the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased, and authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last Meeting of the Company.
independent trade for an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share on the trading By Order of the Board Registered office: venues where the purchase is carried out: F&C Investment Business Exchange House d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion Limited Primrose Street of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after Secretary London EC2A 2NY the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 months 19 June 2018 from the passing of this resolution whichever is earlier, unless such authority is varied, revoked or renewed prior to Notes: such time by the Company in general meeting by special 1.
A member is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of the members rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
A proxy resolution: and need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting for e the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such the members vote to be counted.
If a member appoints more than one authority enter into a contract or contracts to purchase proxy to attend the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to exercise ordinary shares under such authority which will or may be the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration 2.
Any person holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such person complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
A Form of Proxy is provided with this notice for members.
If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so requires additional proxy forms, the member should contact Computershare Investor Services PLC on 0370 889 4088.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such authority must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at the Companys registrars, Chartered Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Accountants Hall Bristol BS99 6ZY, not less than 48 hours before the time of the holding of the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting should they wish to do so.
Amended instructions must also be received by the Companys registrars by the deadline for receipt of Forms of Proxy.
Alternatively, members may register the appointment of a number 3RA50 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments proxy for the meeting electronically, by accessing the website specified in notes 4 and 5 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt www.
com where full instructions for the procedure will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied are given.
The Control Number, Shareholder Reference and PIN as to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers printed on the Form of Proxy will be required in order to use the electronic agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner proxy appointment system.
This website is operated by Computershare prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to Investor Services PLC.
The proxy appointment and any power of attorney proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the or other authority under which the proxy appointment is made must be appointee through other means.
received by Computershare Investor Services PLC not less than 48 hours 10.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in If you want to appoint more than one proxy electronically please contact relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility Computershare Investor Services PLC on 0370 889 4088. of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a 5.
Investors holding shares in the Company through the F&C Private CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting Investor, or Childrens Investment Plans, the F&C Child Trust Fund, Junior service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service ISA or in an F&C Individual Savings Account should ensure that forms of provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a direction are returned to Computershare Investor Services PLC not later message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular than 12 noon on 19 July 2018.
Alternatively, voting directions can be time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their submitted electronically at www.
com by entering the CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to Control Number, Shareholder Reference Number and PIN as printed on those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the the form of direction.
Voting directions must be submitted electronically CREST system and timings www.
no later than 12 noon on 19 July 2018.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 6.
Any person receiving a copy of this notice as a person nominated by circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Act a Securities Regulations 2001 as amended.
Nominated Person should note that the provisions in notes 1, 3 and 12.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate 4 above concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies to attend representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as the meeting in place of a member do not apply to a Nominated Person a member provided that, if it is appointing more than one corporate as only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy.
However, a representative, it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between the therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she was nominated representative.
to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the 13.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting.
a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: 7.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations or 2001 as amended and for the purposes of section 360B of the Act, the Company has specified that only those members registered on the b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing register of members of the Company at 11 p. m. on 24 July 2018 the to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts Specified Time or, if the meeting is adjourned to a time more than 48 and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
hours after the Specified Time, by 11 p. m. on the day which is two days 14.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website prior to the time of the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a name at that time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement hours after the Specified Time, that time will also apply for the purpose to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt the purposes of determining the number of votes they may cast at the with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting meeting.
However, members should note that no answer need be given and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the in the following circumstances: CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting a if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of the meeting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service or would involve a disclosure of confidential information: provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
b if the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST answer to a question: or service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear c if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information of the meeting that the question be answered.
required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual 16.
As at 14 June 2018, being the latest practicable date before the available via www.
The message, regardless of publication of this notice, the Companys issued capital consisted of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment 59,732,792 ordinary shares of 25 pence each carrying one vote each.
to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 78 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION NOTICE OF MEETING Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 14 June 2018 20.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting the threshold were 59,732,792.
No shares are held in Treasury.
requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: 17.
This notice, together with information about the total number of shares in a to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the the Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is rights at the meeting as at 14 June 2018 being the latest practicable intended to be moved at the meeting, and or date prior to the printing of this notice and, if applicable, any members b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter statements, members resolutions or members matters of business other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in received by the Company after the date of this notice, will be available at the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be 18.
Copies of the letters of appointment between the Company and its included in the business unless: Directors: a copy of the articles of association of the Company: the a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective register of Directors holdings: and a deed poll relating to Directors whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the indemnities will be available for inspection at the registered office of the companys constitution or otherwise, Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, b it is defamatory of any person or Sundays and Bank Holidays excluded until the date of the meeting and c it is frivolous or vexatious.
also on the date and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must the commencement of the meeting to the conclusion thereof.
identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be 19.
No Director has a service agreement with the Company.
included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 13 June 2018, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
