OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T 24.
Financial Risk Management continued d Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The assets and liabilities of the Company are, in the opinion of the Directors, reflected in the Balance Sheet at fair value, or at a reasonable approximation thereof, except for the CULS, the liability component of which is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate.
The fair value of investments quoted on active markets is determined directly by reference to published price quotations in those markets.
Unquoted investments are valued based on professional assumptions and advice that is not wholly supported by prices from current market transactions or by observable market data.
The Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investments.
e Capital risk management The structure of the Companys capital is described in note 15 on page 65 and details of the Companys reserves are shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity on page 53.
The objective of the Company is stated as investing in smaller companies worldwide in order to secure a high total return.
In pursuing this long-term objective, the Board has a responsibility for ensuring the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
It must therefore maintain an optimal capital structure through varying market conditions.
This involves the ability to: issue and buy back share capital within limits set by the shareholders in general meeting: borrow monies in the short and long term: and pay dividends to shareholders out of current year revenue earnings as well as out of brought forward revenue reserves.
The Companys objectives, policies and procedures for managing capital are unchanged from last year.
There were no breaches by the Company during the year of the financial covenants put in place in respect of the revolving credit facility provided to the Company.
These requirements are unchanged since last year and the Company has complied with them at all times.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD In accordance with the AIFMD, information in relation to the Companys leverage and the remuneration of the Companys AIFM is required to be made available to investors.
Detailed regulatory disclosures including those on the AIFMs remuneration policy and costs are available on the Companys website or from F&C on request.
The Companys maximum and actual leverage levels at 30 April 2018 are shown below: Gross Commitment Leverage exposure method method Maximum permitted limit 200% 200% Actual 105% 105% The Leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved by the Board and are in line with the maximum leverage levels permitted in the Companys Articles of Association.
The AIFM is also required to comply with the gearing parameters set by the Board in relation to borrowings.
Securities financing transactions SFT The Company has not, in the year to 30 April 2018 2017: same, participated in any: repurchase transactions: securities lending or borrowing: buy-sell back transactions: margin lending transactions: or total return swap transactions collectively called SFT.
As such, it has no disclosure to make in satisfaction of the EU regulations on transparency of SFT, issued in November 2015.
