Notes on Notes on the Accounts the Accounts 1.
General information F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC is an investment company incorporated in the United Kingdom with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company registration number is 28264 and the registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify as an investment trust under the provisions of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 section 1158.
Approval of the Company under section 1158 has been received.
The Company intends to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to continue to comply with the requirements.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK Corporation Tax on gains realised on its portfolio of fixed asset investments.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The accounts of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Financial Reporting Standard FRS 102 applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in November 2014 and updated in February 2018.
There has been no impact on the basis of accounting as a result of this update.
The functional and presentational currency of the Company is pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
In accordance with the SORP, the Income Statement has been analysed between a revenue account dealing with items of a revenue nature and a capital account relating to items of a capital nature.
Revenue returns include, but are not limited to, dividend income and operating expenses and tax insofar as the expenses and tax are not allocated to capital, as described in note 2 b below.
Net revenue returns are allocated via the revenue account to the revenue reserve, out of which interim and final dividend payments are made.
Capital returns include, but are not limited to, realised and unrealised profits and losses on fixed asset investments and currency profits and losses on cash and borrowings.
The Companys Articles prohibit the distribution of net capital returns by way of dividend.
Such returns are allocated via the capital account to the capital reserves.
Dividends paid to equity shareholders are shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
b Principal accounting policies The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the year.
i Financial instruments Financial instruments include fixed asset investments, derivative assets and liabilities, long-term debt instruments, cash and shortterm deposits, debtors and creditors.
Accounting standards recognise a hierarchy of fair value measurements for financial instruments measured at fair value on the Balance Sheet which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs level 3.
The classification of financial instruments depends on the lowest significant applicable input, as follows: Level 1 The unadjusted quoted price in an active market for identical assets or liabilities that the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable ie developed using market data for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Inputs are unobservable ie for which market data is unavailable for the asset or liability.
ii Fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments.
As an investment trust, the Company measures its fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss and treats all transactions on the realisation and revaluation of investments and derivative financial instruments as transactions on the capital account.
Purchases are recognised on the relevant trade date, inclusive of expenses which are incidental to their acquisition.
Sales are also recognised on the trade date, after deducting expenses incidental to the sales.
56 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Quoted investments are valued at bid value at the close of business on the relevant date on the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments which are not quoted or which are not frequently traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investment instruments.
iii Debt instruments Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded initially at the proceeds received, net of issue costs, irrespective of the duration of the instrument.
No debt instruments held during the year required hierarchical classification.
Finance charges, including interest, are accrued using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period.
See vi on next page for allocation of finance charges within the Income Statement.
In July 2014 the Company issued CULS, the accounting policies for which are set out below.
a The CULS are regarded as a compound instrument comprising a liability and an equity component.
The fair value of the liability component, assessed at the date of issue of the CULS, was estimated based on an equivalent non-convertible security.
The fair value of the equity component was derived by deducting the CULS issue proceeds from the fair value of the liability component.
b The liability component is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate.
The equity component value remains unchanged over the life of the CULS.
c Costs incurred directly as a result of the CULS issue are allocated between the liability and equity components in proportion to the split of the proceeds.
Expenses allocated to the liability component are amortised over the life of the CULS using the effective interest rate.
d Finance costs on the CULS, comprising interest payable and amortised costs, are calculated based on an effective interest rate of 4.7%.
Amortised costs are allocated against the CULS liability.
e On conversion of the CULS, equity is issued and the relevant liability component is fide-recognised.
Further details on the CULS can be found in note 14. iv Foreign currency Monetary assets, monetary liabilities and equity investments denominated in a foreign currency are expressed in sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investment securities, derivative financial instruments, dividend income, interest income and expenses are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the respective dates of such transactions.
Foreign exchange profits and losses on fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments are included within the changes in fair value in the capital account.
Foreign exchange profits and losses on other currency balances are separately credited or charged to the capital account except where they relate to revenue items when they are credited or charged to the revenue account.
v Income Income from equity shares is brought into the revenue account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, its nature indicates it should be recognised within the capital account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Dividends are accounted for in accordance with FRS102 on the basis of income actually receivable, without adjustment for the tax credit attaching to the dividends.
Dividends from overseas companies are shown gross of withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash scrip dividends, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in the capital account.
Underwriting commission is recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Deposit interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
Significant accounting policies continued vi Expenses, including finance charges Expenses are charged to the revenue account of the Income Statement, except as noted below: expenses incidental to the acquisition or disposal of fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments are included within the cost of the investments and derivative financial instruments or deducted from the disposal proceeds of investments and derivative financial instruments and are thus charged to capital reserve arising on investments sold via the capital account: 75% of management fees and 75% of finance costs including finance costs on CULS are allocated to capital reserve arising on investments sold via the capital account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from the investment portfolio of the Company.
all expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
vii Taxation Taxation currently payable is calculated using tax rules and rates in force at the year end, based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from the net return before tax.
Note 7 b sets out those items which are not subject to UK Corporation Tax.
Deferred tax is provided on an undiscounted basis on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date, based on the tax rates that have been enacted at the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate the tax relief on expenses charged to capital is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses charged through the revenue account, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital account.
viii Share Premium The surplus of net proceeds received from the issue of new ordinary shares over the nominal value of such shares is credited to this account which is non-distributable.
The nominal value of the shares issued is recognised in share capital.
ix Capital Redemption Reserve The nominal value of ordinary share capital purchased and cancelled is transferred out of called-up share capital and into the capital redemption reserve, which is a non-distributable reserve, on the trade date.
x Capital Reserves These are distributable reserves which may be utilised for the repurchase of share capital: Capital reserve arising on investments sold The following are accounted for in this reserve: 75% of management fees and finance costs as set out in note 2 b vi : gains and losses on the realisation of fixed asset investments and derivative financial instruments: foreign exchange differences of a capital nature: costs of professional advice, including related irrecoverable VAT, relating to the capital structure of the Company: other capital charges and credits charged or credited to this account in accordance with the above policies: and costs of purchasing ordinary share capital.
Capital reserve arising on investments held The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of fixed asset investments held at the year end.
xi Use of judgements, estimates and assumptions The presentation of the financial statements in accordance with accounting standards requires the Board to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on perceived risks, historical experience, expectations of plausible future events and other factors.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The areas requiring the most significant judgement and estimation in the preparation of the financial statements are: recognising and classifying unusual or special dividends received as either revenue or capital in nature.
