Notes to the Company financial statements Year ended 31 July 2018 Foreign currencies 1 Corporate information The financial statements are presented in US dollars which was the Ferguson plc the Company was incorporated and registered in functional currency of the Company at 31 July 2018.
Jersey on 28 September 2010 under the Jersey Companies Law as apubliccompany limited by shares under the name Ferguson plc with Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are registered number 106605.
The principal legislation under which the translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates Company operates is the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended, of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in and regulations made thereunder.
The address of its registered foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling officeis 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA, Channel Islands.
All currency translation differences are It isheadquartered in Switzerland.
charged or credited toretained earnings.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as the ultimate holding Investments in subsidiaries company of the Ferguson Group of companies.
Fixed asset investments are recorded at cost less provision for impairment.
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date Change in functional and presentation currency whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group With effect from 1 August 2017, the functional currency of the Company ofinvestments is impaired.
was changed from pounds sterling to US dollars and applied prospectively from the date of change, as this is now the primary Cash at bank and in-hand currency in which the Companys financing activities and investments Cash at bank and in-hand includes cash in-hand and deposits held returns are denominated.
As a result of the change in functional with banks which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
currency, the Company has chosen to change its presentational Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on currency to US dollars which is accounted for retrospectively.
the balance sheet to the extent there is no right of offset or intention tonet settle with cash balances.
Statutory financial information included in the Company financial statements for the years ended 31 July 2017 and 31 July 2016 Share capital previously reported in pounds sterling has been restated into US The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are dollars using the procedures outlined below: classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue assets and liabilities denominated in non-US dollar currencies were of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
translated into US dollars at the closing rates of exchange on the relevant balance sheet date: Where the Company or one of the Companys trusts purchases the non-US dollar income and expenditure were translated at the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including average rates of exchange prevailing for the relevant period: any directly attributable incremental costs net of tax, is deducted share capital, share premium and the other reserves were translated from equity attributable to shareholders of the Company until the at the historic rates of exchange prevailing on the date of each shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares transaction: and are subsequently disposed or reissued, any consideration received, all exchange rates used were extracted from the Companys net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the underlying financial records.
related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to shareholders The exchange rates of US dollar to pounds sterling over the periods ofthe Company.
presented in this report are as follows: Share-based payments 2018 2017 2016 Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the US dollar pounds sterling translation rate Companys executive share option, long-term incentive and share purchase and ordinary share plans.
The Company recognises Profit and loss 0.74 0.79 0.68 acompensation cost in respect of these plans that is based on Balance sheet 0.76 0.76 0.76 thefair value of the awards, measured using Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies.
For equity-settled plans, the fair 2 Company accounting policies value is determined at the date of grant including the impact of Basis of accounting non-vesting conditions such as requirement for employees to save and is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 the award was granted are modified.
Generally, the compensation Financial Reporting Standard 100 issued by the Financial Reporting cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Financial Reporting Standard during the vesting period due to thefailure to satisfy service 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework as issued by the FRC.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the Dividends payable disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Companys share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, financial statements in the period in which the dividends are paid orapproved by the shareholders of the Company.
presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.
Tax The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost Ferguson plc is taxed as a holding company in Switzerland so no tax basis and on the going concern basis.
isdue at cantonal or communal level.
The tax charge is therefore made up of federal tax and capital tax.
Federal tax is levied on profits in the Note 4 Operating profit on page 113, note 9 Dividends on page year subject to any participation exemption for qualifying dividends 116, note26 Share capital on page 135 and note 34 Post-balance from subsidiaries.
Capital tax is based on the value of the Companys sheet events on page 139 of the Ferguson plc consolidated financial assets, primarily its investment in Wolseley Limited and Ferguson statements form part of these financial statements.
148 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information 3 Fixed asset investments 9 Own shares reserve Cost During the year, the Company contributed $35 million 2017: $8 million $m ofcash to its USA Employee Benefit Trust and $6 million 2017: $nil to At 1 August 2017 restated 10,979 its Jersey Employee Benefit Trust to purchase shares.
The Treasury shares held by both of these trusts have been consolidated within the Additions Companys balance sheet as at 31 July 2018 and amount to $90 million At 31 July 2018 10,979 2017: $76 million.
All of the above investments are in unlisted shares.
The Directors 10 Share-based payments believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by The net profit and loss charge to the Company for equity-settled therecoverable amount of their underlying assets.
share-based payments was $nil 2017: $nil.
The Company charged The Companys direct holdings in subsidiary undertakings as at the full amount incurred for equity-settled share-based payments of 31 July2018 were as follows: $35 million 2017: $28 million to its subsidiary undertakings.
Country of Ordinary registration Principal shares 11 Contingent liabilities Company and operation activity held % Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of known claims and Wolseley Limited England and Wales Investment 100 legal actions in progress.
The Company takes legal advice as tothe Ferguson Holdings Switzerland Investment 100 likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made Switzerland AG where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed or a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential Details of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company, including obligation cannot be made.
those that are held indirectly, are listed on pages 152 and 153 of the Ferguson plc Annual Report.
In addition, the Company has given certain banks and lenders authority to transfer at any time any sum outstanding to its credit 4 Debtors: amounts falling due within oneyear against or towards satisfaction of its liability to those banks of certain subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has also given indemnities Restated 2018 2017 and warranties to the purchasers of businesses from the Company $m $m and certain Group companies in respect of which no material liabilities Other debtors 2 1 are expected to arise.
The Company acts as a guarantor for the Groups UK defined benefit The fair value of amounts included in debtors approximates to pension plan, which is disclosed in note 25 on pages 131 to 134 to the book value.
Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within oneyear 12 E mployees, employee costs and Restated 2018 2017 auditorsremuneration $m $m The average number of employees of the Company in the year Bank overdrafts 199 1,040 ended 31 July 2018 was one 2017: one.
Other employees of Group Other creditors 7 1 companies were seconded or assigned to the Company in the period in order to fulfil their duties or to carry out the work of the Amounts owed to Group companies 1,490 Company.
Each of the Non Executive Directors of the Company has Total 1,696 1,041 an appointment letter with the Company.
The Executive Directors and certain other senior managers of the Group have assignment letters The fair value of amounts included in creditors approximates to in place with the Company.
Total employment costs of the Company bookvalue.
Bank overdrafts are interest bearing, carrying an interest for the period, including Non Executive Directors and seconded rate of 2.5 per cent and are payable on demand.
Amounts owed employees, were $3 million 2017: $3 million.
toGroup companies are interest bearing, carrying an interest rate of2.5 per cent and are payable on demand.
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements are set out in note 4 on page 113 to the Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
6 Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 26 on 13 Dividends page135 tothe Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
Details of the Companys dividends are set out in note 9 on page 116 tothe Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
7 Share premium account Details of new share capital subscribed are set out in note 26 on 14 Related party transactions page135 to the Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 101 from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are 100 per cent owned.
8 Treasury shares Details of Treasury shares are set out in note 26 on page 135 to the 15 Post-balance sheet events Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
Details of post-balance sheet events are given in note 34 on page 139 tothe Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149
