Leadership and effectiveness How the Board operates Board composition and independence Scheduled Board and Committee meetings As at the date of this report, the Board consists of nine members 2017 18attendance eligibility including the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five Board Committees Non Executive Directors.
One-third of the Directors are female.
Audit Rem Nom The biographies of the Directors set out on pages 52 and 53 Chairman demonstrate the strong and diverse experience possessed by Gareth Davis 6 6 4 4 themembers of the Board.
Executive Directors The composition of the Board is kept under regular review by the John Martin 6 6 Nominations Committee to ensure that there is an appropriate Kevin Murphy 6 6 balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to Mike Powell 6 6 support the successful execution of the Groups long-term strategy.
Non Executive Directors Following changes to the Board during the year, the Nominations Tessa Bamford 6 6 4 4 5 5 4 4 Committee is in the process of identifying suitable candidates for Alan Murray 6 6 4 4 5 5 4 4 nomination to the Board.
Further information on the Nominations Darren Shapland 6 6 4 4 5 5 4 4 Committees work on Board succession planning and Non Executive Nadia Shouraboura 6 6 4 4 5 5 4 4 Director recruitment is provided on page 60.
Jacky Simmonds 6 6 4 4 5 5 4 4 The Board reviews the independence of the Non Executive Directors Directors who left during the year as part of its annual Board effectiveness review.
Each of the Non 1 John Daly 5 5 3 3 4 4 3 3 Executive Directors and the Chairman are considered by the 2,3 Pilar Lpez 6 6 3 4 4 5 4 4 Board to be independent and free of any relationship which could The Major Announcements Committee meets as required and was not required materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In addition to the members detailed on pages 52 and The Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor to consider when 53 Mary Ann Lemere, Group General Counsel, and Mark Fearon, Group Director determining the independence of the Non Executive Directors.
of Communications and Investor Relations, are members of that Committee.
Richard Shoylekov was also a member of the Major Announcements Committee Each Non Executive Director has served for six years or less with until he stepped down as Group General Counsel on 31 January 2018. the exception of Tessa Bamford.
As required by the Code, Ms Ferguson plc is registered in Jersey and is tax resident in Switzerland.
During the Bamfords re-appointment for a third three-year term in March 2017 year, all meetings of the Board, Committees of the Board and all other meetings was subject to a particularly rigorous review, which took into account requiring decisions of a strategic or substantive nature were held outside the UK.
the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
John Daly stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 31 May 2018. satisfied that each Non Executive Director continues to demonstrate 2.
Pilar Lpez was unable to attend Audit and Remuneration Committee independence of thought and expertise in meetings, and to support meetingsinSeptember 2017 due to an unavoidable scheduling conflict.
Pilar Lpez stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 31 July 2018. the senior management in an objective manner.
Board and Committee meetings During 2017 18 the Board held six meetings, with Board and Committee meetings scheduled over one-, twoor three-day periods with meetings structured to allow open discussion.
Each Director is required to attend all meetings of the Board and Committees of which they are a member.
In addition, senior management from across the Group and advisers attend some of the The Board provides strong meetings for the discussion of specific items in greater depth.
leadership to the Company and Board decision-making The Board provides strong leadership to the Company and the Non the Non Executive Directors play Executive Directors play an essential role in setting the Companys an essential role in setting the strategic direction and ensuring that appropriate progress implementing the strategy is being made.
The new Directors Companys strategic direction.
who joined the Board last year have settled in well and the Board continues to have a strong culture of open debate where all Directors are actively encouraged to challenge existing assumptions and to raise difficult questions.
Certain strategic decisions and authorities of the Company are reserved as matters for the Board with other matters, responsibilities and authorities delegated to its Committees as detailed in the Ferguson governance structure on page 54.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually in July, asummary of which can be found at www.
com together with the terms of reference of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
56 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Division of responsibilities The effective working of the Board is crucial to the long-term prospects and strategic aims of the Company.
This is achieved through strong and open working relationships between the Directors and, in particular, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director, whose roles are agreed and set out in writing.
A summary of their roles and division of responsibilities is set out below.
Gareth Davis Overall leadership and governance of the Board including induction, development and Chairman performance evaluation Provides the Board with insight into the views of the Companys major shareholders Promotes a culture of challenge and debate at Board and Committee meetings John Martin Effective leadership of the Company, implementing strategy and objectives agreed Group Chief Executive bythe Board Management and development of the Groups operations and business models Working closely with the Group Chief Financial Officer to ensure prudent financial controls Developing and implementing policies integral to improving the business, includinginrelation to health and safety and sustainability Alan Murray Available to investors and shareholders, where communications through the Chairman Senior Independent Director orExecutive Directors may not seem appropriate A sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary Chairs the Board in the absence of the Chairman Holds informal discussion with the Non Executive Directors, with and without thepresence of the Chairman Information and support Development of the Board In advance of each set of meetings, papers and relevant information All Directors are provided opportunities for further development and are delivered so that each Director is provided with the necessary training and, during the year, the Chairman discusses development resources to fulfil their duties.
The information is published via with each Director.
In addition to regular updates on governance, a secure web portal which also provides access to a library of legal and regulatory matters, the Board also receives detailed relevant information about the Company, the Group and Board briefings from advisers on a variety of topics that are relevant to the procedures.
Meeting support is provided by the Company Secretariat Group and its strategy.
During 2017 18 these included a detailed department.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible briefing to the Board from Deloitte on proposed changes to the for ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all UK corporate governance regime and an in-depth briefing on relevant information.
remuneration trends to the Remuneration Committee from Kepler, the Committees remuneration adviser.
The Board has an established procedure for Directors, if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense The annual Board and Committee effectiveness review provides in furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the direct access the Directors with an opportunity to assess their effectiveness that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary for his and that of the Board as a whole.
During the 2016 17 effectiveness advice and services.
review the Board identified increased opportunities to meet with US management and further their understanding of the Groups US Induction operations and market environment as an area for development.
Upon appointment, all new Directors follow a comprehensive Two Board meetings were held in the USA during 2017 18, each induction programme designed to ensure they develop an of which enabled the Board to further develop their knowledge understanding and awareness of our businesses, people and of the Groups US business.
Further details of these meetings are processes, and of their roles and responsibilities as a director provided on page 55.
Continued focus on succession planning at of a public company.
The programme is structured to reflect Board and Executive Committee level was also identified as an area best practice and includes the provision of current and historical for further development during the 2016 17 effectiveness review.
information about the Company, visits to operations around the Board composition has been the major focus of the Nominations Group, induction briefings from function leaders and meetings with Committee this year, further details can be found on page 60.
Directors, senior executives, the Group Company Secretary and the Changes to the membership of the Executive Committee reviewed Companys advisers.
by the Nominations Committee in July 2017 were implemented during the year and new appointments were approved by the Board.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57
