76 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Shareholder Information General Data Protection Regulation GDPR What personal data is collected and how it is used The Company is an investment trust which is a public limited company and, as such, has certain regulatory obligations such as the requirement to send documents to its shareholders such as the Annual Report, proxy forms and other documents that relate to meetings of the Company.
The Company will therefore collect shareholders personal data such as names, addresses and identification numbers such as investor codes and will use this personal data to fulfil its statutory obligations.
Any personal data collected will be kept securely on computer systems and in some circumstances on paper.
Personal information is kept secure in line with Fidelitys Information Security policies and standards.
A copy of these standards is available from Fidelitys Data Protection Officer Address: UK Data Protection Officer, Fidelity International, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Surrey KT20 6RP.
Sharing personal data In order to assist the Company in meeting its statutory requirements, the Company delegates certain duties around the processing of this data to its third party service providers, such as the Companys Registrar and Printers.
The Company has appointed Fidelity to undertake marketing activities for the Company and their privacy statement can be found on the Company website at https: investment-trusts.
co. uk privacy-policy The Companys agreements with the third party service providers have been updated to be compliant with GDPR requirements.
The Company confirms to its shareholders that their data will not be shared with any third party for any other purpose, such as for marketing purposes.
In some circumstances, it may be necessary to transfer shareholders personal data across national borders to Fidelity Group entities operating in the EEA.
Where this does occur, European standard of protections will be applied to the personal data that is processed.
Where personal data is transferred within the Fidelity group but outside of the EEA, that data will subsequently receive the same degree of protection as it would in the EEA.
How long will personal data be kept for?
We will keep the personal data for as long as is necessary for these purposes and no longer than we are legally permitted to do so.
Requesting access, making changes to your personal data and other important information Shareholders can access the information that the Company holds about them or ask for it to be corrected or deleted by contacting Fidelitys UK Data Protection Officer, Fidelity International, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Surrey KT20 6RP.
Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Details of individual shareholdings and other information can Fidelity China Special Situations PLC is a company listed on the also be obtained online from the Registrars Share Portal at London Stock Exchange and you can buy its shares through a www.
Shareholders are able to manage their stockbroker, share shop or bank.
Fidelity also offers a range shareholding online by registering for the Share Portal, a free of options, so that you can invest in a way that is best for you.
and secure online access service.
Facilities include: Details of how to invest can be found on Fidelitys website at www.
Account Enquiry Shareholders can access their personal shareholding, including share transaction history, dividend Contact Information payment history and obtain an up-to-date shareholding valuation.
Shareholders and Fidelitys Platform Investors should contact the appropriate administrator using the contact details given below Amendment of Standing Data Shareholders can change and in the next column.
Links to the websites of major platforms their registered postal address and add, change or delete can be found online at www.
Shareholders can also download forms such as change of address, stock transfer and dividend Shareholders on the main share register mandates as well as buy and sell shares in the Company.
Shareholders should note that Capita Asset Services was acquired by Link Group and the new brand name is Link Asset Services.
Should you have any queries in respect of the Link Share Portal, There is no change in the services offered to shareholders.
contact the helpline on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
If you are outside the Contact Link Asset Services, Registrar to Fidelity China Special United Kingdom, please call 44 371 664 0300.
Calls outside the Situations PLC, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international Kent BR3 4TU.
Lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday per minute plus network extras.
If you are outside the United excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday, excludingpublic holidays in England and Wales.
co. uk 77 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Link Share Dealing Service Private investors: call free on 0800 41 41 10, 9.00 am to 6.00 pm, Link Asset Services offer a low cost share dealing service to buy or Monday to Saturday.
Further information is available at www.
com, or by telephoning 0371 664 0445 calls Financial advisers: call free on 0800 41 41 81, 8.00 am to are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by 6.00pm, Monday to Friday.
Lines are open 8.00 am to 4.30pm, General enquiries Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
General enquiries should be made to the Secretary, at the The Link Share Dealing Service allows you to deal in the shares of Companys registered office: FIL Investments International, other companies for which Link Asset Services acts as Registrar, Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, provided you are already a shareholder in the relevant company, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
and that company offers the Share Deal facility to its shareholders.
Telephone: 01732 361144 Dividend Reinvestment Plan Link Asset Services offer a Dividend Re-investment Plan which is Email: investmenttrusts@fil.
com a convenient way for shareholders to build up their shareholding by using the dividend money to purchase additional shares in the Website: www.
The plan is provided by Link Asset Services, a trading name of Link Market Services Trustees Limited which is authorised If you hold Fidelity China Special Situations PLC shares in an and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
account provided by Fidelity International, you will receive a report every six months detailing all of your transactions and the For more information and an application pack call 0371 664 value of your shares.
0381 between 9.00 am and 5.30 pm Monday to Friday.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by ShareGift provider.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable You may donate your shares to charity free of charge through international rate.
Alternatively you can email: shares@link.
Further details are available at www.
Fidelity Platform Investors Contact Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given below, or by writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity International, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 78 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Shareholder Information continued Managers and Advisors Alternative Investment Fund Manager Financial Adviser and Stockbroker Depositary AIFM the Manager Cenkos Securities plc J. P. Morgan Europe Limited FIL Investment Services UK Limited 6, 7, 8 Tokenhouse Yard 25 Bank Street Oakhill House London London 130 Tonbridge Road EC2R 7AS E14 5JP Hildenborough Tonbridge Independent Auditor Registrar Kent Ernst & Young LLP Link Asset Services TN11 9DZ 25 Churchill Place The Registry London 34 Beckenham Road Investment Manager E14 5EY Beckenham FIL Investment Management Kent Hong Kong Limited Lawyer BR3 4TU Level 21 Charles Russell Speechlys LLP Two Pacific Place 5 Fleet Street 88 Queensway London Admiralty EC4M 7RD Hong Kong Banker and Custodian Unlisted Investment Manager, Secretary JPMorgan Chase Bank and Registered Office 125 London Wall FIL Investments International London Beech Gate EC2Y 5AJ Millfield Lane Lower Kingswood Tadworth Surrey KT20 6RP Email: investmenttrusts@fil.
com Company Information NAV Information The Companys initial public offering was on 19 April 2010.
The The Companys NAV is calculated and released to the London original subscription price for each share was 1.
The Company Stock Exchange on a daily basis.
also issued C shares of 1 each on 1 March 2011 and these Capital Gains Tax were subsequently converted into new ordinary shares.
All UK individuals under present legislation are permitted to The Company is a member of the Association of Investment have 11,700 of capital gains in the current tax year 2018 2019 Companies AIC from whom general information on investment 2017 2018: 11,300 before being liable for capital gains tax.
trusts can be obtained by telephoning 020 7282 555 email Capital gains tax is charged at 10% and 20% dependant on the address: enquiries@theaic.
total amount of taxable income.
Price Information The share price of the Company is published daily in The Financial Times under the heading Investment Companies.
It is also published in the Times and The Daily Telegraph.
Price and performance information is also available at www.
Investors can also obtain current share price information by telephoning Fidelity for free on 0800 41 41 10 or FT Cityline on 0905 817 1690 voice activated service calls charged at 60p per minute on a per second basis from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephone networks may vary.
The Reuters Code for Fidelity China Special Situations PLC is FCSS, the SEDOL is B62Z3C7 and the ISIN is GB00B62Z3C74.
