69 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Shareholder Information Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The Link Share Dealing Service allows you to deal in the shares of Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London other companies for which Link Asset Services acts as Registrar, Stock Exchange and you can buy its shares through a platform, provided you are already a shareholder in the relevant company, stockbroker, share shop or bank.
Fidelity also offers a range and that company offers the Share Deal facility to its shareholders.
of options, so that you can invest in a way that is best for you.
Details of how to invest can be found on Fidelitys website at Dividend Reinvestment Plan www.
Link Asset Services offer a Dividend Re-investment Plan which is a convenient way for shareholders to build up their shareholding CONTACT INFORMATION by using the dividend money to purchase additional shares in the Shareholders and Fidelity Platform Investors should contact the Company.
The plan is provided by Link Asset Services, a trading appropriate administrator using the contact details given below name of Link Market Services Trustees Limited which is authorised and in the next column.
Links to the websites of major platforms and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
can be found online at www.
For more information and an application pack call Shareholders on the main share register 0371 664 0381 between 09:00 17:30 Monday to Friday.
Contact Link Asset Services, Registrar to Fidelity European Values Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will PLC, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Alternatively you can email: Telephone: 0371 664 0300 calls are charged at the standard shares@linkgroup.
geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international Fidelity Platform Investors rate.
Lines are open 9:00 17:30, Monday to Friday excluding Contact Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given below, public holidays in England and Wales.
or by writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity International, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Email: enquiries@linkgroup.
Details of individual shareholdings and other information can Website: www.
also be obtained online from the Registrars Share Portal at www.
Shareholders are able to manage their Private investors: call free on 0800 41 41 10, 9:00 18:00, shareholding online by registering for the Share Portal, a free Monday to Saturday.
and secure online access service.
Facilities include: Financial advisers: call free on 0800 41 41 81, 8:00 18:00, Account Enquiry Shareholders can access their personal Monday to Friday.
shareholding, including share transaction history, dividend payment history and obtain an up-to-date shareholding valuation.
General enquiries General enquiries should be made to the Secretary, at the Amendment of Standing Data Shareholders can change Companys registered office: FIL Investments International, their registered postal address and add, change or delete Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, dividend mandate instructions.
Shareholders can also download Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
forms such as change of address, stock transfer and dividend mandates as well as buy and sell shares in the Company.
Should you have any queries in respect of the Link Share Portal, Email: investmenttrusts@fil.
contact the helpline on 0371 664 0391 calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 9:00 17:30, Monday to Friday If you hold Fidelity European Values PLC shares in an account excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
provided by Fidelity International, you will receive a report every six months detailing all of your transactions and the value of your Link Share Dealing Service shares.
Link Asset Services offer a low cost share dealing service to buy or sell shares.
Further information is available at ShareGift www.
com, or by telephoning 0371 664 0445 calls You may donate your shares to charity free of charge through are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by ShareGift.
Further details are available at www.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the by telephoning 020 7930 3737. applicable international rate.
Lines are open 8:00 16:30, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 70 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Shareholder Information continued General Data Protection Regulation GDPR What personal data is collected and how it is used The Company is an investment trust which is a public limited company and has certain regulatory obligations such as the requirement to send documents to its shareholders, for example, the Annual Report, proxy forms and other documents that relate to meetings of the Company.
The Company will therefore collect shareholders personal data such as names, addresses and identification numbers or investor codes and will use this personal data to fulfil its statutory obligations.
Any personal data collected will be kept securely on computer systems and in some circumstances on paper.
Personal information is kept secure in line with Fidelitys Information Security policies and standards.
If you are unhappy with how we have used your personal data, you can complain by contacting the UK Data Protection Officer at Fidelity International, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Surrey KT20 6RP.
Sharing personal data In order to assist the Company in meeting its statutory requirements, the Company delegates certain duties around the processing of this data to its third party service providers, such as the Companys Registrar and Printers.
The Company has appointed Fidelity to undertake marketing activities for the Company and their privacy statement can be found on the Company website at https: investment-trusts.
co. uk privacy-policy The Companys agreements with the third party service providers have been updated to be compliant with GDPR requirements.
The Company confirms to its shareholders that their data will not be shared with any third party for any other purpose, such as for marketing purposes.
In some circumstances, it may be necessary to transfer shareholders personal data across national borders to Fidelity Group entities operating in the European Economic Area EEA.
Where this does occur, the European standard of protections will be applied to the personal data that is processed.
Where personal data is transferred within the Fidelity Group, but outside of the EEA, that data will subsequently receive the same degree of protection as it would in the EEA.
How long will personal data be kept for?
We will keep the personal data for as long as is necessary for these purposes and no longer than we are legally permitted to do so.
Requesting access, making changes to your personal data and other important information Shareholders can access the information that the Company holds about them or ask for it to be corrected or deleted by contacting Fidelitys UK Data Protection Officer, Fidelity International, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Surrey KT20 6RP.
71 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Managers and Advisors Alternative Investment Fund Manager Depositary Registrar AIFM the Manager J. P. Morgan Europe Limited Link Asset Services FIL Investment Services UK Limited 25 Bank Street The Registry Oakhill House London 34 Beckenham Road 130 Tonbridge Road E14 5JP Beckenham Hildenborough Kent Tonbridge Financial Adviser and Stockbroker BR3 4TU Kent Winterflood Investment Trusts TN11 9DZ The Atrium Building Cannon Bridge Portfolio Manager, 25 Dowgate Hill Secretary and Registered Office London FIL Investments International EC4R 2GA Beech Gate Millfield Lane Independent Auditor Lower Kingswood Ernst & Young LLP Tadworth 25 Churchill Place Surrey London KT20 6RP E14 5EY Email: investmenttrusts@fil.
com Lawyer Charles Russell Speechlys LLP Banker and Custodian 5 Fleet Place JPMorgan Chase Bank London Branch London 125 London Wall London EC4M 7RD EC2Y 5AJ Company Information Net Asset Value NAV Information The Company was launched on 5 November 1991 with one The Companys NAV is calculated and released to the London warrant attached to every five shares.
The original subscription Stock Exchange on a daily basis.
price was 1 for each ordinary share of 25 pence each.
Capital Gains Tax Following the sub-division of the ordinary shares on a ten for one basis on 2 June 2014, the Companys share capital now All UK individuals under present legislation are permitted to comprises ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each and the restated have 11,700 of capital gains in the current tax year 2018 2019 original subscription price is 10 pence for each ordinary share.
2017 2018: 11,300 before being liable for capital gains tax.
Capital gains tax is charged at 10% and 20% dependent on the The Company is a member of the Association of Investment total amount of taxable income.
Companies AIC from whom general information on investment trusts can be obtained by telephoning 020 7282 5555 email: enquiries@theaic.
Price Information The share price of the Company is published daily in the Financial Times under the heading Investment Companies.
It is also published in The Times and The Daily Telegraph.
Price and performance information is also available at www.
Investors can also obtain current price information by telephoning Fidelity on 0800 41 41 10 freephone or FT Cityline on 0905 817 1690 voice activated service calls are charged at 60p per minute on a per second basis from a BT landline.
Charges for other telephone networks may vary.
The Reuters code for Fidelity European Values PLC is FEV.
L, the SEDOL is BK1PKQ9 and the ISIN is GB00BK1PKQ95.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
