74 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure In compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL a Fidelity group company as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
FISL has delegated the portfolio management and company secretarial function to FIL Investments International another Fidelity group company.
Details of the Management Agreement can be found in the Directors Report on page 25.
The table below and on the next page discloses information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013.
Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure The AIFM provides portfolio management of Details of the Companys investment objective, Investment assets and investment advice in relation to the strategy and investment policy, including limits, are management assets of the Company.
It has delegated this on pages 11 and 12. function to FIL Investments International.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, investment policy and investment guidelines and the AIFM operates within these guidelines.
The AIFM has a responsibility for risk The AIFM has an ongoing process for identifying, Risk management for the Company which is in evaluating and managing the principal risks faced management addition to the Boards corporate governance by the Company and this is regularly reviewed by responsibility for risk management.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys system of risk management and internal The Company has a Risk Management Process control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Further Document which is agreed with the Board and details can be found in the Strategic Report on demonstrates that risk management is separated pages 13 and 14 and in Note 17 to the Financial functionally and hierarchically from operating units Statements on pages 57 to 62. and demonstrates independent safeguards.
The Manager maintains adequate risk management systems in order to identify, measure and monitor all risks at least annually under the AIFMD.
The Manager is responsible for the implementation of various risk activities such as risk systems, risk profile, risk limits and testing.
The Board, as part of UK corporate governance, remains responsible for the identification of significant risks and for the ongoing review of the Companys risk management and internal control processes.
The Directive requires the disclosure of the Not Applicable.
Valuation of percentage of the Alternative Investment Funds illiquid assets assets which are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature and any new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company.
75 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure The Company uses leverage to increase its The maximum leverage limits are 1.80 for the Gross Leverage exposure primarily to the stockmarkets of Method of calculating leverage and 1.50 for the continental Europe and currently holds derivatives Commitment Method.
The AIFM has set maximum levels of leverage that are reasonable.
It has At 31 December 2018, actual leverage was 1.11 implemented systems to calculate and monitor for the Gross Method and 1.10 for the Commitment compliance against these limits and has ensured Method.
that the limits have been complied with at all times.
There are two methods of calculating leverage the Gross Method which does not reduce exposure for hedging: and the Commitment Method which does reduce exposure for hedging.
The AIFM, in consultation with the Board, No new arrangements for managing the liquidity of Liquidity maintains a liquidity management policy which is the Company have been made.
Further details can management considered at least annually.
The AIFM operates under the terms of Fidelity Details of Fidelity Internationals Global Remuneration Remuneration Internationals Global Remuneration Policy.
Policy can be found at www.
of the AIFM This ensures that the AIFM complies with the com global remuneration default.
page requirements of the FCAs Remuneration Code SYSC19A : the AIFM Remuneration Code SYSC19B and the BIPRU Remuneration Code SYSC19C.
EU Securities Financing Transactions Regulation SFTR The following disclosures relate to contracts for difference CFDs held by the Company which may be considered Total Return Swaps under the SFTR, which came into force on 12 January 2016.
As at 31 December 2018, all CFDs were contracted bilaterally with open maturities: Percentage Collateral Collateral Fair Value of Granted Received Broker 000 Net Assets 000 000 Deutsche Bank AG UK 391 -0.04% 590 Goldman Sachs International UK 411 -0.04% 520 HSBC Bank plc UK 1,831 0.19% 1,125 Collateral granted was denominated in Sterling and held in a segregated account on behalf of the Company with a maturity of one day.
The total return for the year ended 31 December 2018 from CFDs was a gain of 4,871,000.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY To nd out more about Fidelity European Values Plc, visit out new website www.
com where you can read articles and watch videos on the Company.
com Fidelity, Fidelity International, the Fidelity International logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certi ed paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identi es products which contain wood from well-managed forests certi ed in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled bre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin bre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a veri ed, carbon o setting project.
