72 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Glossary of Terms AIF Custodian Alternative Investment Fund AIF.
An entity that holds as intermediary the Companys assets, arranges the settlement of transactions and administers income, AIFM proxy voting and corporate actions.
The Companys Custodian is Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The Board has JPMorgan Chase Bank.
appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited to act as the Companys AIFM the Manager.
Depositary An entity that oversees the custody, cash arrangements and other AIFMD AIFM responsibilities of the Company.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD is acts as the Companys Depositary.
a European Union Directive implemented on 22 July 2014.
Derivatives Alternative Performance Measures Financial instruments such as futures, options and contracts The Company uses the following Alternative Performance for difference whose value is derived from the value of an Measures which are all defined in this Glossary of Terms: underlying asset.
Discount Premium: Discount Net Asset Value NAV per Share: If the share price of the Company is lower than the net asset value per share, the Company is said to be trading at a discount.
Ongoing Charges: The discount is shown as a percentage of the net asset value.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more common for Return Revenue, Capital and Total Returns : and an investment trust to trade at a discount than a premium.
Fair Value Benchmark Index The fair value is the best estimate of the value of the investments, FTSE World Europe ex UK Index against which the performance including derivatives, at a point in time and this is measured as: of the Company is measured.
Listed investments valued at bid prices, or last market Capital Gains Tax CGT prices, where available, otherwise at published price The tax that may be payable if shares are sold at a profit.
quotations: Unlisted investments valued using an appropriate Collateral valuation technique in the absence of an active market: Asset provided as security for the unrealised gain or loss under a contract for difference.
Futures and options valued at the quoted trade price for the contract: and Contract For Difference CFD Contracts for difference valued as the difference A contract for difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between between the settlement price of the contract and the value the Company and an investment house at the end of which the of the underlying shares in the contract unrealised gains or parties exchange the difference between the opening price and losses.
the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial instrument.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the Futures underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement An agreement to buy or sell a fixed amount of an asset at a fixed in its share price.
A contract for difference allows the Company future date and a fixed price.
to gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing a small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may Gearing reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position Gearing describes the level of the Companys exposure and is or fall, by selling short position.
If the Company trades long, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
It reflects the dividends are received.
If the Company trades short, dividends amount of exposure the Company uses to invest in the market.
can be obtained through the use of bank loans, bank overdrafts and derivatives, in order to increase the Companys exposure to Corporation Tax market price movements.
The Company uses two key measures The tax the Company may have to pay on its profits for a year.
of gearing: Investment trusts are exempt from corporation tax on their capital Gross gearing is the total of: long exposures, plus short gains and do not pay tax on any UK dividends.
As they can offset exposures and less exposures hedging the portfolio, expenses against any taxable income, most investment trusts do expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
not pay corporation tax and are therefore tax efficient for the Company.
Net gearing is the net asset exposure expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
73 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Gross Asset Exposure Premium Gross Asset Exposure measures the exposure to market price If the share price of the Company is higher than the net asset movements as a result of owning shares, derivatives and fixedvalue per share, the Company is said to be trading at a interest securities.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the net asset value.
The opposite of a premium is a discount.
Hedging A strategy aimed at minimising or eliminating the risk or loss Registrar through adverse movements, normally involving taking a position An entity that manages the Companys shareholder register.
The in a derivative such as a future or an option.
Companys Registrar is Link Asset Services.
Investment Manager Return loss Fil Investments International acts as the Companys Investment The return loss generated in a given period from the Manager under delegation from FIL Investment Services UK investments: Limited the AIFM.
Revenue Return loss reflects the dividends and interest from investments and other income, net of expenses, finance Manager costs and taxation: FIL Investments Services UK Limited, was appointed as the Manager in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Capital Return loss reflects the return on capital, excluding Managers Directive AIFMD, and has delegated, inter alia, any revenue return: and the investment management of the Company to the Investment Total Return loss reflects the aggregate of revenue and Manager.
Net Asset Exposure Shareholders Funds Net Asset Exposure is calculated as the total of all long Shareholders funds are also described as net asset value and exposures less short exposures and less exposures hedging the represent the total value of the Companys assets less the total portfolio.
Net Asset Value NAV Total Return Performance Net asset value is sometimes also described as shareholders The return on the share price or net asset value per share taking funds, and represents the total value of the Companys assets into account the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends less the total value of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by the shareholder common to express the net asset value on a per share basis.
are assumed to have been reinvested in additional shares for share price total return or the Companys assets for net asset Ongoing Charges value total return.
Total operating expenses excluding finance costs and taxation incurred by the Company as a percentage of the average daily Treasury Shares net asset values for the reporting year.
Ordinary shares of the Company that have been repurchased by the Company and not cancelled but held in Treasury.
These Options shares do not pay dividends, have no voting rights and are An option is a contract which gives the right but not the excluded from the net asset value per share calculation.
obligation to buy or sell an underlying asset at a specific price on or before an agreed date.
Options may be calls buy or puts sell and are used to gain or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis, for example, the purchase of a call option provides exposure to the upside potential of an underlying stock, with the downside risk being limited to the premium paid.
Portfolio Manager Sam Morse is the appointed Portfolio Manager of the Company and is responsible for managing the Companys assets.
Pre-Emption Rights Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to the nominal value held, to existing shareholders.
At each Annual General Meeting, the Board seeks shareholder approval to disapply pre-emption right provisions, up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
