69 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC will be held at into shares in the Company relevant securities up to an 155Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3YD, on 25July 2018 at 11.00 aggregate nominal amount of 571,354 approximately 10% am for the following purposes: of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company including Treasury Shares as at 11 June 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Financial 2018 and so that the Directors may impose any limits or Statements for the year ended 31 March 2018. restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury Shares, 2.
To declare that a final dividend for the year ended fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or 31March 2018 of 3.50 pence per ordinary share be paid practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or to shareholders who appear on the register as at close of any other matter, such authority to expire at the conclusion of business on 22June 2018. the next Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, 3.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Bull as a Director.
whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the 4.
To re-elect Mr David Causer as a Director.
expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority 5.
To re-elect The Hon Peter Pleydell-Bouverie as a Director.
conferred by this resolution had not expired.
All previous unexpired authorities are revoked, but without prejudice to 6.
To re-elect Ms Elisabeth Scott as a Director.
any allotment of shares or grant of rights already made, offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such authorities.
To re-elect Ms Vera Hong Wei as a Director.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11, as set out 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding above, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, the section headed The Remuneration Policy set out on pursuant to Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity page29 for the year ended 31 March 2018. securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 11 9.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor of the Company to and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at Treasury shares for cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not which financial statements are laid before the Company.
apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited: 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
a to the allotment of equity securities or sale of Treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 571,354 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal amount which Resolution 11 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution of the issued share capital of the Company including and Resolutions 12 and 13 as special resolutions.
Treasury shares as at 11 June 2018 : and Authority to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption b by the condition that allotments of equity securities or rights sales of Treasury shares may only be made pursuant Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to this authority at a price of not less than the NAV per to allot a limited number of ordinary shares or sell any ordinary share.
shares which the Company elects to hold in Treasury for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary shareholders and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is AGM of the Company or the date 15 months after the 10% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company including passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save Treasury shares in issue on 11 June 2018.
The Directors will only that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers issue new ordinary shares, or dispose of ordinary shares held or agreements before the expiry of this authority, and the in Treasury, under this authority in order to take advantage of Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
Any resolution had not expired.
ordinary shares held in Treasury would be re-issued at no less than Net Asset Value NAV per share, or at a premium to NAV Authority to repurchase shares per share.
This would ensure that the net effect of repurchasing Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, will and then re-issuing the ordinary shares would enhance NAV per renew the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the share.
number of ordinary shares in issue excluding Treasury shares on 11 June 2018 either for immediate cancellation or for retention 11.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and as Treasury shares, at the determination of the Board.
Once unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 shares are held in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the them in accordance with the relevant legislation by subsequently powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company or selling the shares for cash or cancelling the shares.
Purchases INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 70 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Notice of Meeting continued of ordinary shares will be at the discretion of the Board and Notes: within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in AGM may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and to speak the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than resulting in an increased NAV per share.
one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different 13.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 member of the Company.
of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the of ordinary shares of 1 penny each in the capital of the Registrar at the address on the form to arrive not later than Company the shares provided that: 11.00 am on 23 July 2018.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is any power of attorney or other authority under which it is 1penny: signed or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by the Directors, must be c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be deposited with the Companys Registrar, Link Asset Services, paid for a share is the higher of: PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not less than 48 hours before the time for holding i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll middle market quotations for a share taken from taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll business days immediately preceding the day on at which it is to be used.
which the share is purchased: and 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who ii the amount stipulated by Regulatory Technical tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the Standards adopted by the European Commission votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority pursuant to Article 5 6 of the Market Abuse shall be determined by the order in which the names stand Regulation EU No.
596 2014: in the Register of Members.
d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 5.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to conclusion of the next AGM of the Company unless such a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the authority is renewed prior to such time: and CREST message must be received by the issuers agent RA10 by 11.00 am on 23 July 2018.
For this purpose, the e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST of such authority which will or may be executed wholly Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able or partly after the expiration of such authority and to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should contract.
be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and By Order of the Board those CREST Members who have appointed voting service FIL Investments International provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting Secretary service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies 11 June 2018 via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys Registrar no later than 11.00 am on 23 July 2018.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of Members as at close of business on 23 July 2018.
71 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC 7.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person 13.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under the Company may be required to publish on its website a an agreement between him and the member by whom he statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM or Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member the Annual Report and Financial Statements were laid.
The as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights Company may not require the shareholders requesting any of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in such website publication to pay its expenses in complying Note 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Where the Company is required to right described in that paragraph can only be exercised by place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the members of the Company.
Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor not later than the time when it makes 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is the statement available on the website.
The business which given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect the Company has been required under Section 527 of the of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
in the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights 14.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary 15.
A copy of this notice and other information required by notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Authority.
As a result, any member holding 3% or more of Companys website at www.
the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the register of members by close of business on 23 July 2018.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the register of members at close of business on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
As at 11 June 2018 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 571,354,480 ordinary shares.
The number of Treasury shares held by the Company was 20,240,000.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 11 June 2018 was 551,114,480.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 72 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Glossary to the Annual Report AIC Contract for Difference CFD The Association of Investment Companies AIC.
The Company A contract for difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between is a member of the AIC.
the Company and an investment bank at the end of which the parties exchange the difference between the opening price and AIF the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial Alternative Investment Fund AIF.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement AIFM in its share price.
A contract for difference allows the Company Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The Board has to gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited to act as the a small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may Companys AIFM.
reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or fall, by selling short position.
If the Company holds long AIFMD positions, dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD is Company holds short positions, dividends are paid.
a European Union Directive implemented on 22 July 2014.
Custodian Auditor An entity that holds as intermediary the Companys assets, Ernst & Young LLP or such other auditor, as the Company may arranges the settlement of transactions and administers income, appoint from time to time.
proxy voting and corporate actions.
The Companys Custodian is JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Benchmark Index MSCI China Index total return in UK sterling and is a composite Debt of China B, H, Red Chip and P Chip share classes.
Bank borrowings and long contracts for difference.
Cenkos Securities Depositary The Companys Broker.
An entity that oversees the custody, cash arrangements and other AIFM responsibilities of the Company.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited China A Shares act as the Companys Depositary.
Shares traded on the Chinese Stock Exchanges in Chinese renminbi.
Foreign investors were unable to participate in the Derivatives China A Shares market until the introduction of the QFII program Financial instruments whose value is derived from the value of in 2002 which provided a legal framework for licensed QFIIs to an underlying asset or other financial instruments such as stocks, invest in China A shares on the Chinese Stock exchanges and bonds, currency exchange rates, real estate and commodities, or certain other securities previously not eligible for investment by market benchmarks such as interest rates.
The main categories foreign investors.
of derivatives are contracts for difference, warrants, futures, and options.
China B Shares Shares traded on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shanghai Discount Stock Exchange in Hong Kong dollars and US dollars, If the share price of the Company is lower than the Net Asset respectively.
The shares were originally intended to be available Value per Ordinary Share, the Companys shares are said to only to foreign individuals and institutional investors, however, be trading at a discount.
It is shown as a percentage of the Net since February 2001 they have been available to domestic Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
individual investors who trade through legal foreign currency accounts.
Equity Linked Notes or ELN China H Shares Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to specific Shares in companies incorporated in the PRC and listed on the equities or equity markets.
The return on equity linked notes may Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
They are available to non-Chinese be determined by an equity index, a basket of equities, or a investors and are traded in Hong Kong dollars on the Hong Kong single equity.
Fair Value Chinese Renminbi The carrying value in the Balance Sheet which represents the Currency of the PRC.
amount that would be received or paid on disposal of the financial asset or liability.
Chinese Stock Exchanges The Shanghai Stock Exchange, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and FIL any other stock exchange located within the PRC from time to FIL Limited and each of its subsidiaries.
FIL Limited Collateral The ultimate parent company of the FIL Group of companies.
73 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Fidelity Management Agreement FIL Investments International.
The agreement between FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and the Company regarding the management of Forward Currency Contract the Companys investments dated 17 July 2014.
An agreement to buy or sell a currency, commodity or other asset at a specified future date and at a predetermined price.
It is not Management Agreements standardised and is not traded on organised exchanges.
Together, represents the Management Agreement and the Unlisted Management Agreement.
Future or Future Contract An agreement to buy or sell a stated amount of a security, Management Fee currency or commodity at a specific future date and at a preThe annual management fee is 1.0% of the Net Asset Value of the agreed price.
Gearing Manager Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited is the appointed Manager under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Gross Assets AIFMD and has delegated the investment management of the Net Assets plus borrowings.
Company to the Investment Managers.
Gross Asset Exposure MSCI China Index The value of the portfolio to which the Company is exposed, The Benchmark Index of the investment performance of the whether through direct or indirect investment including the Company, UK sterling equivalent.
economic value of the exposure in the underlying asset of the derivatives, but excluding forward currency contracts.
MSCI China Mid Cap Index Designed to measure the performance of the mid cap segment Hedging of the China market.
The Index represents approximately 15% of A hedge position demonstrates risk reduction qualities by the free float-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity delivering short exposure to an asset which has regional universe.
congruence and a correlation of at least 80% to long exposures in the Companys portfolio.
It therefore distinguishes itself from MSCI China Small Cap Index a short which is a position not opened with the objective of Designed to measure the performance of the small cap segment reducing the long exposure in the portfolio.
Qualifying hedge of the China market.
The Index represents approximately 14% of exposures do not count towards the short exposure limits.
For the free float-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity the purposes of calculating Gross Asset Exposure, the exposure universe.
attributed to the hedge positions will be deducted from the exposure of the corresponding long positions.
Short positions are Net Asset Value NAV added to long positions in arriving at the Gross Asset Exposure.
Net Asset Value is sometimes described as Shareholders Funds and is the total value of the Companys assets less the Index Linked Securities total value of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is common to Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to changes express the Net Asset Value on a per share basis.
in interest rates, stock exchanges, or other price indices.
Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share Initial Public Offering IPO The NAV per Ordinary Share is calculated as Shareholders Funds An initial public offering IPO is the first sale of stock by a divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
private company to the public.
IPOs are often issued by smaller, younger companies seeking the capital to expand, but can also Ongoing Charges be done by large privately owned companies looking to become Ongoing charges are the regular, recurring operational expenses publicly traded.
Finance costs except for interest on bank loans and overdrafts, taxation and the costs of buying and Investment Manager selling investments are excluded.
The ongoing charges figure FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited.
is calculated annually and expresses ongoing charges as a percentage of the average daily net assets for the reporting year.
Investment Managers Together, represents the Investment Manager and the Unlisted Options Investment Manager.
An option is a contract which gives the right but not the obligation to buy or sell an underlying asset at an agreed price Link Asset Services on or before an agreed date.
Options may be call or put and The Companys Registrar.
are used to gain or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 74 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Glossary to the Annual Report continued P Chips Red Chips Companies controlled by mainland China individuals, with the Companies incorporated outside China but which are based in establishment and origin of the company in mainland China.
Red Chips are listed on, and are required to observe the filing and reporting requirements of the Hong Kong P Chips are incorporated outside of the PRC and traded on the Stock Exchange.
Red Chips typically have a significant portion of Stock Exchange of Hong Kong with a majority of revenues or their business interests located in mainland China and many are assets derived from mainland China.
owned, either directly or indirectly, by organisations or enterprises controlled by the Chinese state, provinces or municipalities.
Performance Fee The Investment Managers are entitled to an annual performance Registrar fee of 15% of any change in NAV attributable to performance The entity that manages the Companys shareholder register.
The which is more than 2% above the returns on the MSCI China Companys Registrar is Link Asset Services.
Index total return in UK sterling after making good any cumulative underperformance, including the 2% hurdle, carried Return forward from previous years, subject to a maximum performance The return generated in a given period from investments: fee payable in any year equal to 1.0% of the arithmetic mean of the value of assets with the valuation calculated at the end of Revenue Return reflects the dividends and interest from each month during the year.
investments and other income, net of expenses, finance costs and taxation: Portfolio The Companys portfolio which may be made up of equities, Capital Return reflects the return on the capital, excluding any index linked securities, equity linked notes and other debt revenue return: and securities, cash deposits, money market instruments, foreign currency exchange transactions and other interests including Total Return reflects the aggregate of revenue and capital derivatives such as futures, options and contracts for difference.
Portfolio Manager Secretarial Agreement Dale Nicholls is the appointed Portfolio Manager of the Company The agreement between the Secretary and Company regarding and is responsible for managing the Companys assets.
the provision of company secretarial and administrative services dated 25 February 2010 and novated by a deed dated 17 July PRC 2014.
The Peoples Republic of China excluding Taiwan, Hong Kong and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the PRC.
Pre-emption Rights Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company Shareholders Funds offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these Also described as Net Asset Value, Shareholders Funds shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion represent the total value of the Companys assets less the total to the nominal value held by existing shareholders.
At each value of its liabilities as shown in the balance sheet.
annual general meeting, the Board seek shareholder approval to disapply pre-emption rights provision, up to 10% of the Short Stock Exposure Companys issued share capital.
The position of the Company when it has sold a security or derivative that it does not own but is now committed to eventually Premium purchase in order to satisfy its obligation to sell.
It is a strategy If the share price of the Company is higher than the Net Asset used to capitalise on an expected decline in the securitys or Value per Ordinary Share, the Companys shares are said to be derivatives price.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Total shareholder return TSR is the total return of shares to Prospectus shareholders, or the capital gains, plus dividends paid.
The Prospectus of the Company dated 7 January 2011.
Treasury Shares QFII Ordinary shares of the Company that have been repurchased The Investment Manager is a QFII a Qualified Foreign by the Company and not cancelled but held in Treasury.
These Institutional Investor and as such has been granted a QFII shares do not receive dividends, have no voting rights and are licence by the China Securities Regulatory Commission CSRC excluded from the Net Asset Value calculation.
which permits the Company to invest in China A Shares through the Investment Manager and has received an allocation of quota Unlisted Investment Manager for onshore investment from the State Administration of Foreign FIL Investment Services UK Limited.
75 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Unlisted Management Agreement The agreement between the Company and FIL Investment Services UK Limited for the management of the unlisted investments.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited has delegated this function to FIL Investments International.
Unlisted Companies Companies not listed on a regulated stock exchange.
They are stated at best estimate of fair value, based on recognised valuation techniques which may take account of recent arms length transactions in the investments.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited is the Companys Unlisted Investment Manager.
Variable Interest Entity VIE A variable interest entity VIE is an entity where there is a controlling interest that is not based on the majority of voting rights and may result in a risk to an investor being unable to enforce their ownership rights in certain circumstances.
Variable Management Fee VMF With effect from 1 October 2018, the Company will adopt a Variable Management Fee model VMF.
The base fee will be 0.90% of net assets per annum plus a - 0.20% variation fee based on performance relative to the Companys Benchmark Index the MSCI China Index.
The maximum fee that the Company will pay is 1.10% of net assets, but if the Company underperforms against the Benchmark Index, then the overall fee could be as low as 0.70% of net assets.
Warrants A derivative security that gives the Company the right to purchase securities usually equity from the issuer at a specific price and within a certain time frame.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
