65 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of into shares in the Company relevant securities up to an Fidelity European Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, aggregate nominal amount of 520,560 approximately 5% London EC4M 5TA on 13 May 2019 at 12 noon for the following of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital purposes: of the Company including Treasury shares as at 14 March 2019 and so that the Directors may impose any limits or 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Financial restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018. necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or 2.
To declare that a final dividend for the year ended practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or 31December 2018 of 6.28 pence per ordinary share be any other matter, such authority to expire at the conclusion of paid to shareholders on the register as at close of business the next Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company on 29March 2019. or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow 3.
To re-elect Mr Vivian Bazalgette as a Director.
the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant 4.
To re-elect Ms Fleur Meijs as a Director.
securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To re-elect Dr Robin Niblett as a Director.
unexpired authorities are revoked, but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or grant of rights already made, 6.
To re-elect Ms Marion Sears as a Director.
offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such authorities.
To re-elect Mr Paul Yates as a Director.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11, set out above, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding to Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as the section headed The Remuneration Policy set out on defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the page 32 for the year ended 31 December 2018. authority given by the said Resolution 11 and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as Treasury shares for 9.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor of the Company to cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited: which financial statements are laid before the Company.
a to the allotment of equity securities or sale of Treasury 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 520,560 remuneration.
approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company including To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following special Treasury shares as at 14 March 2019 : and business resolutions of which Resolutions 11 and 14 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 12 and 13 as b by the condition that allotments of equity securities or special resolutions.
sales of Treasury shares may only be made pursuant to this authority at a price of not less than the NAV per Authority to allot shares and dis-apply pre-emption rights share, Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to allot a limited number of ordinary shares or to sell any ordinary and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next shares which the Company elects to hold in Treasury for cash AGM of the Company or the date 15 months after the without first offering such shares to existing ordinary shareholders passing of this Resolution, whichever is the earlier, save pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company including or agreements before the expiry of this authority, and the Treasury shares in issue on 14 March 2019.
The Directors will Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an only issue new ordinary shares, or dispose of ordinary shares offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this held in Treasury, under this authority to take advantage of Resolution had not expired.
opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
Any Authority to repurchase shares ordinary shares held in Treasury would only be re-issued at net Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, will asset value NAV per share or at a premium to NAV per share.
renew the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the This would ensure that the net effect of repurchasing and then number of ordinary shares in issue excluding Treasury shares on re-issuing the ordinary shares would enhance NAV per share.
14 March 2019, either for immediate cancellation or for retention as Treasury shares, at the determination of the Board.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and shares are held in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 them in accordance with the relevant legislation by subsequently of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the selling the shares for cash or cancelling the shares.
Purchases powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company or of ordinary shares will be at the discretion of the Board and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any securities within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 66 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Notice of Meeting continued of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in Notes: the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all resulting in an increased NAV per share.
or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company, but must of ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each the shares in the attend the AGM to represent you.
To appoint a proxy go to capital of the Company provided that: www.
If you need help with appointing a proxy online or require a paper proxy form, please contact a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be our Registrar, Link Asset Services, on 44 0 371 664 0391, purchased shall be 61,784,706: calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls from outside the United Kingdom will b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are share is 2.5 pence: open between 09:00 17:30, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for each share is the higher of: 2.
To appoint a proxy via the share portal at www.
com, you will need to log in to your i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the share portal account or register if you have not previously middle market quotations for a share taken from done so.
To register you will need your Investor Code the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five which can be found on your share certificate or dividend business days immediately preceding the day on confirmation or by contacting our Registrar, Link Asset which the share is purchased: and Services details above.
In the case of CREST members, you can vote by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment ii the amount stipulated by Regulatory Technical service in accordance with the procedures set out in Note 5 Standards adopted by the European Commission below.
pursuant to Article 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation EU No.
To be valid, an online proxy appointment or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by our Registrar, Link d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the Asset Services, no later than 12 noon on Thursday 9May conclusion of the next AGM of the Company unless such 2019 or no later than 48 hours before any adjourned authority is renewed prior to such time: and meeting, excluding non-business days.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who or partly after the expiration of such authority and tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority contract.
shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
Continuation of the Company Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution that relates to the 5.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to continuation of the Company.
a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent 14.
THAT the Company continues to carry on business as an RA10 by 12 noon on 9 May 2019.
For this purpose, the investment trust.
time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST By Order of the Board Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able FIL Investments International to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of Secretary instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should 14 March 2019 be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a 67 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or case your proxy form must be received by the Companys more corporate representatives who may exercise on its Registrar no later than 12 noon on 9 May 2019. behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be 12.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they determined by reference to the Register of Members as at appoint understand that by attending the meeting they close of business on 9 May 2019. are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the 7.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person Companys securities, made at the meeting.
nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under 13.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of an agreement between him and the member by whom he the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have the Company may be required to publish on its website a someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM or agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in the Annual Report and Financial Statements were laid.
The Note 1 on the previous page does not apply to Nominated Company may not require the shareholders requesting any Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can only be such website publication to pay its expenses in complying exercised by members of the Company.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject Companys Auditor not later than the time when it makes of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect the statement available on the website.
The business which of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that in the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, the Company has been required under Section 527 of the result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary 14.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
As a result, any member holding 3% or more of 15.
A copy of this notice and other information required by the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting Companys website at www.
rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, separate notification to the Company and the Financial Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Register of Members by close of business on 9 May 2019.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Register of Members by the close of business on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
As at 14 March 2019 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 416,447,910 ordinary shares.
The number of shares held in Treasury by the Company was 4,275,084.
Therefore, the total number of shares with voting rights in the Company as at 14 March 2019 was 412,172,826.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
