79 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure In compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL a Fidelity group company as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
FISL has delegated the investment management other than in unlisted securities to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited.
It has delegated the investment management of the unlisted securities and the company secretarial function to FIL Investments International another Fidelity group company.
Details of current Management Agreements can be found in the Directors Report on page 22.
The table below discloses information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013.
Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure The AIFM provides portfolio management of Details of the Companys investment objective, Investment assets and investment advice in relation to the strategy and investment policy, including limits, are management assets of the Company.
It has delegated this on pages 10 and 11. function to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited other than the unlisted securities and for unlisted securities to FIL Investments International.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, investment policy and investment guidelines and the AIFM operates within these guidelines.
The AIFM has a responsibility for risk The AIFM has an ongoing process for identifying, Risk management for the Company which is in evaluating and managing the principal risks faced management addition to the Boards corporate governance by the Company and this is regularly reviewed responsibility for risk management.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for The Company has a Risk Management Process reviewing its effectiveness.
Further details can be Document which is agreed with the Board and found in the Strategic Report on pages 11 to 13 and demonstrates that risk management is separated in Note 18 to the Financial Statements on pages 57 functionally and hierarchically from operating units to 67. and demonstrates independence safeguards.
The Manager maintains adequate risk management systems in order to identify, measure and monitor all risks at least annually under AIFMD.
The Manager is responsible for the implementation of various risk activities such as risk systems, risk profile, risk limits and testing.
The Board, as part of UK corporate governance, remains responsible for the identification of significant risks and for the ongoing review of the Companys risk management and internal control processes.
The Directive requires the disclosure of the Not Applicable.
Valuation of percentage of the AIFs assets which are subject illiquid assets to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
Further, any new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company must be disclosed.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 80 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure continued Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure The Company uses leverage to increase its The maximum leverage limits are 1.80 for the Gross Leverage exposure primarily to the stockmarkets of China Method of calculating leverage and 1.50 for the and currently holds long Contracts For Difference Commitment Method.
There have been no changes to achieve this.
The AIFM has set maximum to the maximum level of leverage that the Company levels of leverage that are reasonable.
It has may employ during the year.
At 31 March 2018, implemented systems to calculate and monitor actual leverage was 1.47 for the Gross Method and compliance against these limits and has ensured 1.39 for the Commitment Method.
that the limits have been complied with at all times.
There are two methods of calculating leverage the Gross Method which does not reduce exposure for hedging: and the Commitment Method which does reduce exposure for hedging.
The AIFM, in consultation with the Board, No new arrangements for managing the liquidity of Liquidity maintains a liquidity management policy which is the Company have been made.
Further details can management considered at least annually.
The AIFM operates under the terms of Fidelitys Details of Fidelity Internationals Global Remuneration Remuneration Global Remuneration Policy Statement.
This Policy can be found at www.
com of the AIFM ensures that the AIFM complies with the global remuneration default.
requirements of the FCAs Remuneration Code SYSC19A : the AIFM Remuneration Code SYSC19B and the BIPRU Remuneration Code SYSC19C.
EU Securities Financing Transactions Regulation SFTR The following disclosures relate to contracts for difference CFDs held by the Company which may be considered Total Return Swaps under the SFTR, which came into force on 12 January 2016.
As at 31 March 2018 all CFDs were contracted bilaterally with open maturities: Percentage Collateral Collateral Fair Value of Granted Received Broker 000 Net Assets 000 000 Deutsche Bank AG UK 14,195 -0.94% 13,300 Goldman Sachs International UK 982 0.07% 1,177 HSBC Bank plc UK 14,298 -0.95% 8,986 UBS AG UK 20,937 1.39% 23,570 Collateral granted was denominated in US dollars and held in a segregated account on behalf of the Company with a maturity of one day.
The total return for the year ended 31 March 2018 from CFDs was a profit of 52,089,000.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC | Annual Report 2018 www.
com Fidelity, Fidelity International, the Fidelity International logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certified paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a verified, carbon offsetting project.
