32 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the statements for each financial period.
Under that law they have Company: and elected to prepare the Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted The Annual Report includes a fair review of the development by the European Union.
The Financial Statements are required and performance of the business and the position of the by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks Company and of the profit or loss for the reporting period.
In preparing these Financial Statements the Directors are The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial required to: Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for select suitable accounting policies and then apply them shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business consistently: model and strategy.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Approved by the Board on 11 June 2018 and signed on its prudent: behalfby: state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis Nicholas Bull unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will Chairman continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, a Corporate Governance Statement and a Directors Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors have delegated responsibility for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys pages of the Managers website at www.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the Financial Statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
