70 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Shareholder Information Investing in Fidelity Special Values PLC Wales.
The Link Share Dealing Services allows you to deal in the Fidelity Special Values PLC is a company listed on the shares of other companies for which Link Asset Services acts as London Stock Exchange and you can buy its shares through a Registrar, provided you are already a Shareholder in the relevant stockbroker, share shop or bank.
Fidelity also offers a range of company, and that company offers the Share Deal facility to its options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
Details of how to invest can be found on Fidelitys website at www.
com Dividend Reinvestment Plan Link Asset Services offers a Dividend Re-investment Plan which is CONTACT INFORMATION a convenient way for Shareholders to build up their shareholding Shareholders should contact the appropriate administrator by using their dividend money to purchase additional shares using the contact details given below.
Links to the in the Company.
The Plan is provided by Link Asset Services, a websites of major platforms can be found online at trading name of Link Market Services Trustees Limited which is www.
com authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Shareholders on the main share register For more information and an application pack call Contact Link Asset Services, Registrar to Fidelity Special 0371 664 0381 between 9:00 17:30 Monday to Friday.
Calls Values PLC, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by Kent BR3 4TU.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Alternatively you can email: shares@link.
co. uk Telephone: 0371 664 0300 calls are charged at the standard or log on to www.
geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international Fidelity Platform Investors rate.
Lines are open 9:00 17:30, Monday to Friday excluding Contact Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given opposite, or public holidays in England and Wales.
by writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity International, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent Email: enquiries@linkgroup.
Details of individual shareholdings and other information can Website: www.
also be obtained online from the Registrars Share Portal at www.
Shareholders are able to manage their Private investors: call free on 0800 41 41 1 0, 9:00 18:00, shareholding online by registering for the Share Portal, a free Monday to Saturday.
and secure online access service.
Facilities include: Financial advisers: call free on 0800 41 41 81, 08:00 18:00, Account Enquiry Shareholders can access their personal Monday to Friday.
shareholding, including share transaction history, dividend payment history and obtain an up-to-date shareholding valuation.
General enquiries General enquiries should be made to the Secretary, at the Amendment of Standing Data Shareholders can change their Companys registered office: FIL Investments International, registered postal address and add, change or delete dividend Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, mandate instructions.
Shareholders can also download forms Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
such as change of address, stock transfer and dividend mandate forms as well as buy and sell shares in the Company.
Telephone: 01 732 361 1 44 Should you have any queries in respect of the Link Share Portal, Email: investmenttrusts@fil.
com contact the helpline on 0371 664 0300 calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
com outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 9:00 17:30, Monday to Friday If you hold Fidelity Special Values PLC shares in an account excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
provided by Fidelity International, you will receive a report every six months detailing all of your transactions and the value of your Link Share Dealing Service shares.
Link Asset Services offer a low cost share dealing service to buy or sell shares.
Further information is available at ShareGift www.
com, or by telephoning 0371 664 0445 You may donate your shares to charity free of charge through callsare charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary ShareGift.
Further details are available at www.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged or by telephoning 020 7930 3737. at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 8:00 16:30, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and 71 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC General Data Protection Regulation GDPR What personal data is collected and how it is used The Company is an investment trust which is a public limited company and has certain regulatory obligations such as the requirement to send documents to its Shareholders, for example, the Annual Report, proxy forms and other documents that relate to meetings of the Company.
The Company will therefore collect Shareholders personal data such as names, addresses and identification numbers or investor codes and will use this personal data to fulfil its statutory obligations.
Any personal data collected will be kept securely on computer systems and in some circumstances on paper.
Personal information is kept secure in line with Fidelitys Information Security policies and standards.
If you are unhappy with how we have used your personal data, you can complain by contacting the UK Data Protection Officer at Fidelity International, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Surrey KT20 6RP.
Sharing personal data In order to assist the Company in meeting its statutory requirements, the Company delegates certain duties around the processing of this data to its third party service providers, such as the Companys Registrar and Printers.
The Company has appointed Fidelity to undertake marketing activities for the Company and their privacy statement can be found on the Company website at https: investment-trusts.
co. uk security-privacy The Companys agreements with the third party service providers have been updated to be compliant with GDPR requirements.
The Company confirms to its Shareholders that their data will not be shared with any third party for any other purpose, such as for marketing purposes.
In some circumstances, it may be necessary to transfer Shareholders personal data across national borders to Fidelity Group entities operating in the European Economic Area EEA.
Where this does occur, the European standard of protections will be applied to the personal data that is processed.
Where personal data is transferred within the Fidelity group but outside of the EEA, that data will subsequently receive the same degree of protection as it would in the EEA.
How long will personal data be kept for?
We will keep the personal data for as long as is necessary for these purposes and no longer than we are legally permitted to do so.
Requesting access, making changes to your personal data and other important information Shareholders can access the information that the Company holds about them or ask for it to be corrected or deleted by contacting Fidelitys UK Data Protection Officer, Fidelity International, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Surrey KT20 6RP.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 72 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Shareholder Information continued Managers and Advisors Alternative Investment Fund Manager Lawyer Registrar AIFM the Manager Dickson Minto W. S. Link Asset Services FIL Investment Services UK Limited Broadgate Tower The Registry Oakhill House 20 Primrose Street 34 Beckenham Road 130 Tonbridge Road London Beckenham Hildenborough EC2A 2EW Kent Tonbridge BR3 4TU Kent Banker and Custodian TN11 9DZ JPMorgan Chase Bank London Branch 125 London Wall Portfolio Manager, Secretary and London Registered Office EC2Y 5AJ FIL Investments International Beech Gate Depositary Millfield Lane J. P. Morgan Europe Limited Lower Kingswood 25 Bank Street Tadworth London Surrey E14 5JP KT20 6RP Email: investmenttrusts@fil.
com Financial Adviser and Stockbroker Cenkos Securities plc Independent Auditor 6,7, 8 Tokenhouse Yard Ernst & Young LLP London 25 Churchill Place EC2R 7AS London E14 5EY Company Information Net Asset Value NAV Information The Company was launched on 17 November 1994.
The original The NAV of the Company is calculated and released to the subscription price was 1 for each ordinary share of 25 pence London Stock Exchange on a daily basis.
Following the sub-division of ordinary shares on a five for one basis on 29 June 2015, the Companys share capital now UK Capital Gains Tax comprises ordinary shares of 5 pence each and the restated All UK individuals under present legislation are permitted to original subscription price is 20 pence for each ordinary share.
have 11,700 of capital gains in the current tax year 2018 2019 2017 2018: 11,300 before being liable for capital gains tax.
The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Capital gains tax is charged at 10% and 20% dependent on the Companies AIC from whom general information on investment total amount of taxable income.
trusts can be obtained by telephoning 020 7282 5555 email: enquiries@theaic.
Price Information The mid-market price of the ordinary shares is published daily in The Financial Times under the heading Investment Companies.
The ordinary share price is also published in the Times, The Daily Telegraph and The Independent.
You can also obtain current price information by telephoning Fidelity on 0800 41 41 1 0 freephone or FT Cityline on 0905 81 7 1 690 voice activated service calls charged at 60p per minute on a per second basis from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephone networks may vary.
The Reuters code for Fidelity Special Values PLC is FSV.
L, the SEDOL is BWXC7Y9 and the ISIN is GB00BWXC7Y93.
