67 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security Fidelity Special Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, into shares in the Company relevant securities up to an London EC4M 5TA on 12 December 2018 at 11.30 am for the aggregate nominal amount of 1,353,222 approximately following purposes: 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company including Treasury shares as at 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Financial 31October 2018 and so that the Directors may impose any Statements for the year ended 31 August 2018. limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury 2.
To declare that a final dividend for the year ended shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory 31August 2018 of 3.15 pence per ordinary share be paid or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or to Shareholders on the register as at close of business on any other matter, such authority to expire at the conclusion of 7December 2018. the next Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, 3.
To re-elect Mr Andy Irvine as a Director.
whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the 4.
To re-elect Mrs Sharon Brown as a Director.
expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority 5.
To re-elect Mr Dean Buckley as a Director.
conferred by this resolution had not expired.
All previous unexpired authorities are revoked, but without prejudice to 6.
To re-elect Mr Nigel Foster as a Director.
any allotment of shares or grant of rights already made, offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such authorities.
To re-elect Ms Nicky McCabe as a Director.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11, set out above, 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant the section headed The Remuneration Policy set out on page to Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as 34 for the year ended 31 August 2018. defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 12 and or to sell 9.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor of the Company to ordinary shares held by the Company as Treasury shares for hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such which financial statements are laid before the Company.
allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited: 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors a to the allotment of equity securities or sale of Treasury remuneration.
shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,353,222 approximately 10% of the aggregate To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following special nominal amount of the issued share capital of the business resolutions of which Resolution 11 will be proposed Company including Treasury shares as at 31 October as an ordinary resolution and Resolutions 12 and 13 as special 2018 : and resolutions.
b by the condition that allotments of equity securities or Authority to allot shares and disapply of pre-emption rights sales of Treasury shares may only be made pursuant Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to this authority at a price of not less than the NAV per to allot a limited number of new ordinary shares or to sell any share, ordinary shares which the Company elects to hold in Treasury for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set AGM of the Company or the date 15 months after the by the Board is 10% of the number of ordinary shares of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save Company including Treasury shares in issue on 31 October that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers 2018.
The Directors will only issue new ordinary shares, or or agreements before the expiry of this authority, and the dispose of ordinary shares held in Treasury, under this authority Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an in order to take advantage of opportunities in the market as offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this they arise and only if they believe it is advantageous to the resolution had not expired.
Companys Shareholders to do so.
Any ordinary shares held in Treasury would be re-issued at no less than net asset value Authority to repurchase shares NAV per share or at a premium to NAV per share.
This would Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, will ensure that the net effect of repurchasing and then re-issuing the renew the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of ordinary shares would enhance NAV per share.
the number of ordinary shares in issue excluding Treasury shares on 31 October 2018 either for immediate cancellation 11.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and or for retention as Treasury shares, at the determination of the unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 Board.
Once shares are held In Treasury, the Directors may only of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the dispose of them in accordance with the relevant legislation by powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company or subsequently selling the shares for cash or cancelling the shares.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 68 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Notice of Meeting continued Purchases of ordinary shares will be at the discretion of the Notes: Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per behalf at the meeting.
A Shareholder may appoint more share, thereby resulting in an increased NAV per share.
than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a 13.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and different share or shares held by that Shareholder.
A proxy unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of need not be a Shareholder of the Company, but must attend the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases the AGM to represent you.
To appoint a proxy go to www.
within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares signalshares.
If you need help with appointing a proxy of 5 pence each the shares in the capital of the Company online or require a paper proxy form, please contact our provided that: Registrar, Link Asset Services, on 44 0 371 664 0300, calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be by provider.
Calls from outside the United Kingdom will be purchased shall be 40,064,444: charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between 09:00 17:30, Monday to Friday excluding public b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is holidays in England and Wales.
To appoint a proxy via the share portal at c the maximum price which may be paid for each share is www.
com, you will need to log in to your the higher of: share portal account or register if you have not previously i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the done so.
To register you will need your Investor Code middle market quotations for a share taken from which can be found on your share certificate or dividend the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five confirmation or by contacting our Registrar, Link Asset Services business days immediately preceding the day on details above.
In the case of CREST members, you can vote which the share is purchased: and by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service inaccordance with the procedures set out in note 5 below.
ii the amount stipulated by Regulatory Technical Standards adopted by the European Commission 3.
To be valid, an online proxy appointment or other instrument pursuant to Article 5 6 of the Market Abuse appointing a proxy must be received by our Registrar, Link Regulation EU No.
596 2014: Asset Services, no later than 11:30 on Monday 10 December 2018 or no later than 48 hours before any adjourned d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the meeting, excluding non-business days.
The appointment of a conclusion of the next AGM of the Company unless such proxy will not prevent a Shareholder attending the General authority is renewed prior to such time: and Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the of such authority which will or may be executed wholly votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority or partly after the expiration of such authority and shall be determined by the order in which the names stand may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such in the Register of Members.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to FIL Investments International a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the Secretary CREST message must be received by the issuers agent 31 October 2018 RA10 by 11:30 on 10 December 2018.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent 69 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 10.
As at 31 October 2018 the latest practicable date prior a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any to the publication of this document the Companys issued case your proxy form must be received by the Companys share capital consisted of 270,644,480 ordinary shares Registrar no later than 11:30 on 10 December 2018. including Treasury Shares.
The number of Treasury shares held by the Company was 3,370,000.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM number of shares with voting rights in the Company as at and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be 31October 2018 was 267,274,480. determined by reference to the Register of Members as at close of business on 10 December 2018.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its 7.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to not do so in relation to the same shares.
enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he 12.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have appoint understand that by attending the meeting they someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right communications, including communications relating to the or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such Companys securities, made at the meeting.
agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights 13.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, Note 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The the Company may be required to publish on its website a right described in that paragraph can only be exercised by statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the members of the Company.
Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that is to be laid before the AGM or 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect the Annual Report and Financial Statements were laid.
The of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests Company may not require the Shareholders requesting any in the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, such website publication to pay its expenses in complying result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights with such requests.
Where the Company is required to that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct Companys Auditor not later than the time when it makes Authority.
As a result, any member holding 3% or more of the statement available on the website.
The business which the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting the Company has been required under Section 527 of the rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the Financial 14.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
A copy of this notice and other information required by 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be Companys website at www.
entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, members Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, must be entered on the Register of Members by close of Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Register of Members by close of business on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
