75 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Glossary of Terms AIF Derivatives Alternative Investment Fund AIF.
Financial instruments such as futures, options and contracts for difference whose value is derived from the value of an AIFM underlying asset.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited to act as the Discount Companys AIFM the Manager.
If the share price of the Company is lower than the net asset value per share, the Company is said to be trading at a discount.
AIFMD The discount is shown as a percentage of the net asset value.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD is The opposite of a discount is a premium.
a European Union Directive implemented on 22 July 2014.
Fair Value Alternative Performance Measures The fair value is the best estimate of the value of the investments, The Company uses the following Alternative Performance including derivatives, at a point in time and this is measured as: Measures which are all defined in this Glossary of Terms: Listed and AIM quoted investments valued at bid prices Discount Premium: or last market prices where available, otherwise at published Net Asset Value NAV per Share: price quotations: Ongoing Charges: Unlisted investments valued using an appropriate valuation technique in the absence of an active market: Return Revenue, Capital and Total Returns : and Total Return Performance.
Futures and options valued at the quoted trade price for the contract: and Benchmark Index FTSE All-Share Index against which the performance of the Contracts for difference valued as the difference Company is measured.
between the settlement price and the value of the underlying shares in the contract unrealised gains or losses.
Capital Gains Tax CGT The tax which you may have to pay if you sell your shares at a Futures profit.
An agreement to buy or sell a fixed amount of an asset at a fixed future date and a fixed price.
Collateral Asset provided as security for the unrealised gain or loss under a Gearing contract for difference.
Gearing describes the level of the Companys exposure and is expressed as a percentage of Shareholders funds.
It reflects the Contract for Difference CFD amount of exposure the Company uses to invest in the market.
It A contract for difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between can be obtained through the use of bank loans, bank overdrafts the Company and an investment house at the end of which the and derivatives, in order to increase the Companys exposure to parties exchange the difference between the opening price and market price movements.
The Company uses two key measures the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial of gearing: instrument.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement Gross gearing is the total of all long exposures, plus in its share price.
A contract for difference allows the Company short exposures and less exposures hedging the portfolio, to gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing expressed as a percentage of Shareholders funds.
a small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position Net gearing is the total of all long exposures, less short or fall, by selling short position.
If the Company trades long, exposures and less exposures hedging the portfolio, dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the Company expressed as a percentage of Shareholders funds.
trades short, dividends are paid and interest is received.
Gross Asset Exposure Corporation Tax Gross Asset Exposure measures the exposure to market price The tax the Company may have to pay on its profits for a year.
movements as a result of owning shares, derivatives and fixedInvestment trust companies are exempt from corporation tax interest securities.
on their capital gains and do not pay tax on any UK dividends.
As they can offset expenses against any taxable income, most Hedging investment trusts do not pay corporation tax and are therefore tax A strategy aimed at minimising or eliminating the risk or loss efficient for the Company.
through adverse movements, normally involving taking a position in a derivative such as a future or an option.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 76 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Glossary of Terms continued Net Asset Value NAV Treasury Shares Net asset value is sometimes also described as Shareholders Ordinary shares of the Company that have been repurchased funds, and represents the total value of the Companys assets by the Company and not cancelled but held in Treasury.
These less the total value of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is shares do not pay dividends, have no voting rights and are common to express the net asset value on a per share basis.
excluded from the net asset value per share calculation.
Ongoing Charges Total operating expenses excluding finance costs and taxation incurred by the Company as a percentage of the average daily net asset values for the reporting year.
Options An option is a contract which gives the right but not the obligation to buy or sell an underlying asset at an agreed price on or before an agreed date.
Options may be calls buy or puts sell and are used to gain or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis, for example, the purchase of a call option provides exposure to the upside potential of an underlying stock, with the downside risk being limited to the premium paid.
Pre-Emption Rights Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to the nominal value held by existing Shareholders.
At each annual general meeting, the Board seeks Shareholder approval to disapply pre-emption right provisions, up to 10% of the issued share capital.
Premium If the share price of the Company is higher than the net asset value per share, the Company is said to be trading at a premium.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the net asset value.
The opposite of a premium is a discount.
Return The return generated in a given period from the investments: Revenue Return reflects the dividends and interest from investments and other income net of expenses, finance costs and taxation: Capital Return reflects the return on capital, excluding any revenue return: and Total Return reflects the aggregate of revenue and capital return.
Shareholders Funds Shareholders funds are also described as net asset value and represent the total value of the Companys assets less the total value of its liabilities.
Total Return Performance The return on the share price or net asset value per share taking into account the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends paid to Shareholders.
Any dividends received by the Shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested for additional shares for share price total return or in the Companys assets for net asset value total return.
com Fidelity, Fidelity International, the Fidelity International logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certied paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certied in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled bre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin bre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a veried, carbon osetting project.
