37 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with FRS 102, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial financial position and profit of the Company: and statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have elected to prepare the Financial Statements in accordance with The Annual Report includes a fair review of the development UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102: and performance of the business and the position of the The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Company, together with a description of the principal risks Republic of Ireland.
The Financial Statements are required by law and uncertainties it faces.
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss for the period.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and In preparing these Financial Statements the Directors are understandable and provide the information necessary for required to: Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Approved by the Board on 31 October 2018 and signed on its behalf by: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and Andy Irvine prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern Chairman basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, a Corporate Governance Statement and a Directors Remuneration Report which comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors have delegated responsibility for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys pages of the Managers website at www.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the Financial Statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
