73 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure In compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL a Fidelity group company as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
FISL has delegated the portfolio management and company secretarial function to FIL Investments International another Fidelity group company.
Details of the Management Agreement can be found in the Directors Report on page 27.
The table below discloses information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013.
Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure The AIFM provides portfolio management of Details of the Companys investment objective, Investment assets and investment advice in relation to the strategy and investment policy, including limits, are management assets of the Company.
It has delegated this on pages 9 and 10. function to FIL Investments International.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, investment policy and investment guidelines and the AIFM operates within these guidelines.
The AIFM has a responsibility for risk The AIFM has an ongoing process for identifying, Risk management for the Company which is in evaluating and managing the principal risks faced management addition to the Boards corporate governance by the Company and this is regularly reviewed responsibility for risk management.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for The Company has a Risk Management Process reviewing its effectiveness.
Further details can be Document which is agreed with the Board and found in the Strategic Report on page 11 and in Note demonstrates that risk management is separated 17 to the Financial Statements on pages 58 to 63. functionally and hierarchically from operating units and demonstrates independence safeguards.
The Manager maintains adequate risk management systems in order to identify, measure and monitor all risks at least annually under AIFMD.
The Manager is responsible for the implementation of various risk activities such as risk systems, risk profile, risk limits and testing.
The Board, as part of UK corporate governance, remains responsible for the identification of significant risks and for the ongoing review of the Companys risk management and internal control processes.
The Directive requires the disclosure of the Not Applicable.
Valuation of percentage of the Alternative Investment Funds illiquid assets assets which are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature and any new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 74 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure continued Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure The Company uses leverage to increase its The maximum leverage limits are 1.80 for the Gross Leverage exposure primarily to UK-listed companies and Method of calculating leverage and 1.50 for the currently holds derivative instruments.
has set maximum levels of leverage that are reasonable.
It has implemented systems to At 31 August 2018, actual leverage was 1.24 for the calculate and monitor compliance against these Gross Method and 1.18 for the Commitment Method.
limits and has ensured that the limits have been complied with at all times.
There are two methods of calculating leverage the Gross Method which does not reduce exposure for hedging: and the Commitment Method which does reduce exposure for hedging.
The AIFM, in consultation with the Board, No new arrangements for managing the liquidity of Liquidity maintains a liquidity management policy which is the Company have been made.
Further details can management considered at least annually.
The AIFM operates under the terms of Fidelity Details of Fidelity Internationals Global Remuneration Remuneration Internationals Global Remuneration Policy.
Policy can be found at www.
of the AIFM This ensures that the AIFM complies with the com global remuneration default.
page requirements of the FCAs Remuneration Code SYSC19A : the AIFM Remuneration Code SYSC19B and the BIPRU Remuneration Code SYSC19C.
EU Securities Financing Transactions Regulations SFTR The following disclosures relate to contracts for difference CFDs held by the Company which may be considered Total Return Swaps under the SFTR, which came into force on 12 January 2016.
As at 31 August 2018 all CFDs were contracted bilaterally with open maturities: Collateral Collateral Fair Value Percentage of Granted Received Broker 000 Net Assets 000 000 Deutsche Bank AG UK 710 0.10% 1,270 Goldman Sachs International UK 2,052 0.28% 1,600 HSBC Bank plc UK 64 0.01% 185 UBS AG 1,249 0.17% 6,996 635 Collateral granted was denominated in Euros, UK sterling and US Dollars and held in a segregated account on behalf of the Company with a maturity of one day.
The total return for the year ended 31 August 2018 from CFDs was a gain of 884,000.
