Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 63 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Further Information How to Invest Retail Investors Advised by IFAs For further information on this service, please contact: www.
com online dealing Telephone: 0371 664 The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its Shares 0445 Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and can be recommended by Independent Financial Advisers will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom are IFAs in the UK to ordinary retail investors in accordance charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules in relations to between 8.00a.
m. Monday to Friday excluding non-mainstream investment procedures and intends to public holidays in England and Wales.
The Shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Risk Warnings Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
Investment Platforms The value of your investment and any income from it may The Companys shares are traded openly on the London Stock go down as well as up and you may not get back the Exchange and can be purchased through a stock broker or amount invested.
This is because the share price is other financial intermediary.
The shares are available through determined, in part, by the changing conditions in the savings plans including Investment Dealing Accounts, ISAs, relevant stock markets in which the Company invests and Junior ISAs and SIPPs which facilitate both regular monthly by the supply and demand for the Companys shares.
investments and lump sum investments in the Companys As the shares in an investment trust are traded on a stock shares.
There are a number of investment platforms that offer market, the share price will fluctuate in accordance with these facilities.
A list of some of them, that is not supply and demand and may not reflect the underlying comprehensive nor constitutes any form of recommendation, net asset value of the shares: where the share price is less can be found on the Companys website www.
than the underlying value of the assets, the difference is known as the discount.
For these reasons, investors may Link Asset Services Share Dealing Service not get back the original amount invested.
A quick and easy share dealing service is available to existing Although the Companys financial statements are shareholders through the Companys Registrar, Link Asset denominated in sterling, some of the holdings in the Services, toeither buy or sell shares.
An online and telephone portfolio are currently denominated in currencies other dealing facility provides an easy to access and simple to use than sterling and therefore they may be affected by service.
As a result, the value of There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated your investment may rise or fall with movements in forms to fill in.
The online and telephone dealing service exchange rates.
allows you to trade real time at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
Investors should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time in the future.
To deal online or by telephone all you need is your surname, investor code, full postcode and your date of birth.
Your The value of ISA and Junior ISA tax advantages will investor code can be found on your share certificate.
Please depend on personal circumstances.
The favourable tax have the appropriate documents to hand when you log on or treatment of ISAs and Junior ISAs may not be call, as this information will be needed before you can buy or maintained.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Perivan Financial Print 251002 Company Information Financial Calendar Global Custodian 30 September Financial Year End Bank of New York Mellon December Final Results Announced 160 Queen Victoria Street January February Annual General Meeting London EC4V 4LA 31 March Half Year End Registrars May Half Year Results Announced Link Asset Services May and November Interim Dividends Payable The Registry, Annual General Meeting 34 Beckenham Road, The Annual General Meeting of Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC will be Beckenham, held at Guildhall, City of London EC2V 7HH on Wednesday, 27 February 2019 Kent BR3 4TU at 12 noon.
Formal notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders with the Telephone in UK : 0371 664 0300 Annual Report.
co. uk Share Prices Website: www.
com The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange under Investment Companies.
The prices are published daily in the Financial Times Please contact the Registrars if you have a query about a certificated holding in and online.
Change of Address Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate and Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on the share may be recorded for training purposes.
Lines are open from 9.00 a. m. to register.
In the event of a change of address or other amendment this should be 5.30 p. m. Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
notified to the Companys Registrars, Link Asset Services, under the signature of Corporate Broker the registered holder.
Winterflood Investment Trusts Daily Net Asset Value The Atrium Building, The daily net asset value of the Companys shares can be obtained on the Cannon Bridge, Companys website www.
com and is published daily via the London 25 Dowgate Hill Stock Exchange.
London EC4R 2GA Registered Office Identification Codes 50 Lothian Road, Shares: SEDOL: 0781606 Festival Square, ISIN: GB0007816068 Edinburgh EH3 9WJ BLOOMBERG: FGT LN EPIC: FGT Company Registration Number SCO13958 Registered in Scotland Legal Entity Identifier 213800NN42KX2LGIGQ40 The Company is an investment company as defined under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA IRS Registration Number GIIN : AIFM, Company Secretary and Administrator QH4BH0.99999.
826 Frostrow Capital LLP 25 Southampton Buildings Winner: London WC2A 1AL Citywire Investment Trust Awards, UK Equity Income 2018 and 2017 Telephone: 0203 008 4910 Money Observer Trust Awards, Best UK Income Trust 2017 E-Mail: info@frostrow.
com Moneywise, Investment Trust of the Year 2016 and 2015, UK Equity Website: www.
com Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Income Category Investment Week, Investment Company of the Year 2016 and 2015, If you have an enquiry about the Company or if you would like to receive a UK Equity Income Category copy of the Companys monthly fact sheet by e-mail, please contact Frostrow using the above e-mail address.
What Investment Trust 2016, Best UK Investment Trust Portfolio Manager Disability Act Lindsell Train Limited Copies of this annual report and other documents issued by the Company are 5th Floor, available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available 66 Buckingham Gate, in a variety of formats, including braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
London SW1E 6AU You can contact the Registrar to the Company, Link Asset Services, which has Telephone: 0207 808 1225 installed telephones to allow speech and hearing impaired people who have Website: www.
com their own telephone to contact them directly, without the need for an Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
intermediate operator, for this service please call 0800 731 1888.
Specially Independent Auditors trained operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator  LLP This report is printed on Revive 100% White Silk a totally recycled paper produced using 100% recycled waste at a mill that has been awarded the 7 More London Riverside provided by The Royal National Institute for Deaf People you should dial ISO 14001 certificate for environmental management.
18001 from your textphone followed by the number you wish to dial.
London SE1 2RT The pulp is bleached using a totally chlorine free TCF process.
Depositary The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited One Canada Square London E14 5AL Website: www.
com Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 A member of the Association of Investment Companies LINDSELL TRAIN
