Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 General information FirstGroup plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is 395KingStreet, Aberdeen, AB24 5RP.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic report on pages4 to 44.
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting policies set outin note 2.
2 Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted and endorsed for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, and on a going concern basis, as described in the going concern statement within the directors report and additional disclosures on pages 95 to 98.
Theprincipal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018, include the results and financial position of the First Rail business for the year ended 31 March 2018 and the results and financial position of all the other businesses for the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2018.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017, include the results and financial position of the First Rail businesses for the year ended 31 March 2017 and the results and financial position of all the other businesses for the 52 weeks ended 25 March 2017.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so astoobtain benefits from its activities.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity interest therein.
Those interests of non-controlling shareholders that are present ownership interests entitling their holders to a proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation, may initially bemeasured at fair value, or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of their fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Thechoice of measurement is made on an acquisition by acquisition basis.
Other non-controlling interests are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the noncontrolling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those usedby the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisitions method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Groupin exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, with the exception of deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements, liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payment and non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair valueof the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Assets held for sale Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Thiscondition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the dateof classification.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs which are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently where there is an indication that the CGU may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the CGU, the impairment loss is allocated to the goodwill of the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU pro rata on thebasis of the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Ondisposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit orloss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being testedfor impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Computer software is recognised separately as an intangible asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include software licences, website development, costs attributable to the development, design and implementation ofthe computer software and internal costs directly attributable to the software.
The existing finite life intangible assets have a residual value of nil and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives asfollows: Customer contracts over the estimated life of the contract 9 to 10 years Greyhound brand and trade name over the estimated life of the brand 20 years Franchise agreements over the initial term of the franchise 2 to 10 years Software over the estimated life of the software 3 to 5 years Revenue recognition Revenue principally comprises revenue from train passenger services, road passenger transport, and certain management and maintenance services in the UK and North America.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as the proportion of total services to be provided.
Receipts for season tickets and travel cards are deferred within Season ticket deferred income and recognised in the income statement over the period covered by the relevant ticket.
Revenue in First Rail includes franchise subsidy receipts from the Department for Transport DfT and amounts receivable under franchise arrangements including certain funded operational projects.
Franchise premium payments to the DfT for amounts due under the terms of a franchise are included in operating costs.
Revenue also includes amounts attributable to the Train Operating Companies TOCs, predominantly based on models of route usage, by the Railway Settlement Plan in respect of passenger receipts.
First Bus revenue principally comprises amounts receivable from ticket sales and concessionary fare schemes.
Concessionary amounts are recognised in the period in which the service is provided.
Greyhound coach revenue mainly comprises of amounts receivable from ticket sales.
Other Bus, including First Student and First Transit, and services revenue from contracts with government bodies and similar organisations is recognised as the services are provided.
Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and the rental charges are charged against income on a straight-line basis over thelifeofthe lease.
Assets held under hire purchase contracts and finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
106 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period, except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group holds currency swaps and borrowings in foreign currencies see note 24 for details of the Groups policies in respect of foreign exchange risks.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at the closing exchange rates on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising from the average or actual exchange rates used and the period end rate, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take asubstantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Non-GAAP measures and performance In measuring the Group and divisional adjusted operating performance, additional financial measures derived from the reported results have beenused by management in order to eliminate factors which distort year-on-year comparisons.
The Groups adjusted performance is used to explain year-on-year changes when the effect of certain items are significant, including restructuring and reorganisation costs, property disposals, aged legal and self-insurance claims, onerous contract provisions, impairment charges and pension settlement gains or losses.
In addition, management assess divisional performance before other intangible asset amortisation charges, as these are typically a result of Group decisions and therefore the divisions have little or no control over these charges.
Management consider that this overall basis more appropriately reflects operating performance and provides a better understanding of the key performance indicators of the business.
See note 4 for the reconciliation tonon-GAAP measures and performance.
Subsequent revisions to adjusting items are also recognised as an adjusting item in future periods.
In the current year non-GAAP adjusting itemsprincipally relate to other intangible asset amortisation charges, onerous contract provision, impairment charges, aged self-insurance claims, restructuring and reorganisation costs, bond make-whole interest cost and the impact of the US tax reform.
In the prior year the non-GAAP adjusting items principally related to other intangible asset amortisation charges, restructuring and reorganisation costs and gain ondisposal of property.
Retirement benefit costs The Group operates or participates in a number of pension schemes, which include both defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
There is no legal or constructive obligation to pay additional contributions into a defined contribution scheme, if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial updates being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
All past service costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Where changes to the benefits in payment on defined benefit pension schemes require a change in scheme rules or ratification by the Trustees, the change is recognised as a past service charge or credit in the income statement.
Where changes in assumptions can be made without changing the Trustee agreement, these are recognised as a change in assumptions in other comprehensive income.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued The retirement benefit position recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any residual asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds.
Various TOCs in the First Rail business participate in the Railways Pension Scheme, which is an industry-wide defined benefit scheme.
The Group is obligated to fund the relevant section of the scheme over the period for which the franchise is held.
The full liability is recognised on the balance sheet, which is then reduced by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability reflects the Groups obligations to fund the scheme over the franchise term.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement becauseit excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and includes an estimate of the tax which could be payable as a result of differing interpretation of tax laws.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised and is based on the estimated tax consequences of items that are subject to differing interpretations of tax laws.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities andwhen they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on anetbasis.
Property, plant and equipment Properties for provision of services or administrative purposes are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Passenger carrying vehicles and other plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than freehold land, the land element of long leasehold properties or on assets in the course of construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Freehold buildings 50 years straight-line Long leasehold buildings 50 years straight-line Short leasehold properties period of lease Passenger carrying vehicles 7 to 17 years straight-line Other plant and equipment 3 to 25 years straight-line Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Capital grants Capital grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Capital grants are not recognised until there is a reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received.
108 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated inorder to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately except in the case of goodwill, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets The Group measures financial assets on initial recognition at fair value, and determines the classification of such assets at initial recognition and on any subsequent reclassification event.
Where there is no active market for a financial asset, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial transactions and discounted cash flows.
Otherwise financial assets are carried at amortised cost.
Financial assets are classified into one of three primary categories: Fair value through profit and loss This covers any financial asset designated on initial recognition to be measured at fair value with fair value changes to go through the profit and loss, and financial assets acquired principally for the purpose of trading in the short term.
Held to maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity are classified here when the Group has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
These financial assets are held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired as well as through amortisation.
Loans and receivables Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and the carrying value in all cases approximates to the fair value.
The most significant financial assets under this category are trade receivables and bank deposits.
Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Bank deposits are included within cash and cash equivalents.
Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts.
In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents exclude bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts that have no legal right of set-off against cash and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
All are carried on the balance sheet at cost.
Cash and cash equivalents includes ring-fenced cash.
The most significant ring-fenced cash balances are held by the Groups First Rail subsidiaries.
Under the terms of the Rail franchise agreements, cash can only be distributed by the train operating companies up to the lower of the amount of retained profits or the amount determined by prescribed liquidity ratios.
The ring-fenced cash represents that which is not available for distribution or the amount required to satisfy the contractual liquidity ratio at the balance sheet date.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issuedby the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Bonds and loan notes These are measured either on an amortised cost basis or at fair value, if adopted.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks, foreign currency risks and fuel price risks.
Use of such financial instruments is governed by policies and delegated authorities approved by the Board.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments forspeculative purposes.
The main derivative financial instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps, fuel swaps, and cross currency interest rate swaps.
Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value at the reported balance sheet date.
The fair values are calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end, and supported by counterparty confirmations.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting as cash flow hedges or foreign currency hedges of a foreign net investment are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred tothe income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains orlossesreported in the income statement.
Debt Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after the deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the amortisation of debt issuance fees in respect of the accounting period and reduced by repayments made in the period.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required tosettle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Amounts due within 12 months of the balance sheet date are considered to be reliably measured and are therefore included within accruals.
Self-insurance The Groups policy is to self-insure high frequency, low value claims within the businesses.
In addition there are typically a smaller number of major claims during a financial year for which cover is obtained through third-party insurance policies subject to an insurance deductible.
Provision is made under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets for the estimated cost of settling uninsured claims forincidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The provision is discounted to appropriately reflect the timing of future cash claims settlements.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value atthe date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and is adjusted for the effects of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes or other appropriate valuation models.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
110 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the Group has not applied the following standards that have been issued but are not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 with effect from accounting periods commencing 1 January 2018.
The new standard covers three 1 distinct areas: the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities: the impairment of financial assets : and new hedging requirements designed to give increased flexibility in relation to hedge effectiveness.
IFRS 9 requires a new impairment model with impairment provisions based on expected credit losses rather than incurred credit losses under IAS39.
Based on an initial assessment of 2017 18 closing balances, the current expectation is that there will be a transitional increase decrease inimpairment allowances of nil.
This amount will be finalised in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019.
In relation to hedge accounting, we do not expect a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
It is expected that our hedging instruments will remain effective and that current hedge relationships will qualify as continuing hedges upon the adoption of IFRS 9.
There will be some increased disclosure requirements under IFRS 9 and these will be reflected in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2019.
The Group is adopting the new rules prospectively from 1 April 2018.
It is currently considered that no material restatements will be necessary forthe comparative period.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers replaces IAS 18 with effect from accounting periods commencing 1 January 2018.
It introduces a new revenue recognition model that recognises revenue either at a point in time or over time.
The model features a contract-based five step analysis of transactions to determine whether, how much and when revenue is recognised and is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer.
The Group has evaluated a sample of customer contracts from all major revenue streams across the Group to identify the performance obligations, the timing of the revenue recognition and the treatment of variable elements of pricing.
Based on this assessment, Management have concluded that although there are areas of difference, there is not currently expected to be a material impact on the Groups financial statements and that revenues are correctly attached to performance obligations and are recognised as the service is transferred to the customer and that variable elements of price such as discounts, rebates and liquidated damages are properly provided.
The Group is adopting IFRS 15 from 1 April 2018 on a prospective basis.
It is currently considered that no material restatements will be necessary for the comparative period and that there will not be a material impact on the Groups revenue recognition in future periods.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 with effect from accounting periods commencing 1 January 2019.
The new standard eliminates the operating lease classification and therefore on the balance sheet the lessees will be required to recognise an asset the right to use the leased item and lease liabilities for all leases unless they have a term of less than twelve months or are of low value.
On the income statement, the operating lease expense will be replaced by a combination of depreciation and interest.
As at 31 March 2018, the Group holds a significant number of operating leases that are expensed over the lease term.
Management are in the process of assessing the potential impact of this standard on the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2020, and it is anticipated thatthe transition to IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the value of lease assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
However at this stage it is not practical to provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect until this assessment is complete.
Adoption of new and revised standards The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the following amendments to existing Standards which have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses, and Amendment to IAS 7 Disclosure initiative Changes in Liabilities arising from financing activities The amendment to IAS 7 requires a disclosure of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
This has been presented in note 32.
1 Financial assets include trade receivables, other receivables, prepayments and accrued income.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies which are described above, management has made the following judgements and estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
i Critical accounting judgements Defined benefit pension arrangements The UK schemes retirement benefit obligations are discounted at a rate set by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high-quality corporate bonds.
Significant judgement is required when setting the criteria for bonds to be included in the population from which theyield curve is derived.
The most significant criteria considered for the selection of bonds include the issue size of the corporate bonds, quality of the bonds and the identification of outliers which are excluded.
Management follows actuarial advice from a third party when determining thesejudgements.
Another key judgement is the longevity of members.
We take specialist advice on this from our actuarial advisors which aims to consider the likely experience taking into account each schemes characteristics.
Our approach is to review these assumptions following completion of their funding valuations, and more frequently only if appropriate to do so.
The carrying amount of the Groups retirement benefit obligations at 31 March 2018 was a liability of 273.7m 2017: 358.5m.
Further details and sensitivities are set out in note 36. ii Key sources of estimation uncertainty Impairment of intangible assets including goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Thevalue in use requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
As detailed in notes 4 and 11, the Directors have concluded that there should be an impairment charge of 277.3m ontheGreyhound CGU 260.6m on goodwill, 12.3m on property, plant and equipment and 4.4m on other intangible assets.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was 1,496.8m 2017: 1,956.1m as set out in note 11 and the carrying amount of other intangible assets at the balance sheet date was 89.8m 2017: 150.6m as set out in note 12.
Onerous contracts The Group has a number of contractual commitments most notably in respect of its rail franchises and First Student and First Transit businesses.
IAS 37 requires a provision to be made for an onerous contract where it is probable that the future economic benefits to be derived from the contract are less than the unavoidable costs under the contract.
In order to determine the amount of any contract provision it is necessary to forecast future financial performance and then apply an appropriate discount rate to determine a net present value.
The estimation of both the forecasts and the discount rate involves a significant degree of judgement.
Actual results can differ from those assumed in the forecasts and there can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
The TPE onerous contract provision is sensitive to a change in the assumptions used, most notably to passenger revenue growth.
A reduction or increase of 0.5% in the cumulative annual passenger growth rate assumption would increase or decrease the onerous contract provision required of 106.3m by 27.0m.
Self-insurance Provision is made for all known incidents for which there is self-insurance using managements best estimate of the likely settlement of these incidents.
The estimated settlement is reviewed on a regular basis with independent actuarial advice and the amount provided including IBNR isadjusted as required.
The self-insurance reserve is most sensitive to favourable or adverse developments on individually significant claims.
TheGroups total self-insurance provisions, including those classified within accruals, as at the balance sheet date were 368.8m 2017: 391.0m as set out in note26.
112 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Contract and franchise accounting Estimates are made on an ongoing basis with regards to the recoverability of amounts due and the carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising from franchises and long term service contracts.
Regular forecasts are compiled on the outcome of these types of franchises and contracts, which require assessments and estimates relating to the expected levels of profitability and, in cases where options exist, the life of the contract or franchise.
The useful economic lives of assets are determined by reference to the length of a franchise and matched to the franchise end date.
The residual value of assets is determined by their condition at the franchise end date and by the amount of maintenance that has been carried out during the period of operation.
In particular, First Rail has a number of contractual relationships including those with the DfT and Network Rail which given their complexity and duration can be sensitive to changes in future assumptions.
Due to the regulated nature of the rail industry, disputes and claims typically arise with such bodies as well as other TOCs where one or more TOCs have access to common infrastructure such as railway lines.
Management is required to estimate the amounts receivable and also payable taking account of the information available at the time.
Uncertain tax positions Uncertainties exist in relation to differing interpretations of complex tax law in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
It may take several years to determine the final tax consequences of certain transactions in some jurisdictions.
The tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group are based on estimates made by management on the application of tax laws and managements estimate of the future amounts that will be agreed with tax authorities.
Further details on the tax on profit on ordinary activities are set out in note 9.
There is a risk that the amounts eventually agreed with tax authorities may differ from the amounts recognised by the Group and would lead to future adjustments to tax assets and liabilities currently recognised, impacting future tax charges.
3 Revenue 2018 2017 m m Services rendered 6,398.4 5,653.3 Investment income 1.3 1.2 Total revenue as defined by IAS 18 6,399.7 5,654.5 4 Reconciliation to non-GAAP measures and performance In measuring the Group and divisional adjusted operating performance, additional financial measures derived from the reported results have been used in order to eliminate factors which distort year-on-year comparisons.
In addition, management assess divisional performance before other intangible asset amortisation charges as these are typically a result of Group decisions and therefore the divisions have little or no control over these charges.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Reconciliation of operating loss profit to adjusted operating profit m m Operating loss profit 196.2 283.6 Adjustments for: Other intangible asset amortisation charges 70.9 60.2 Greyhound impairment charges 277.3 TPE onerous contract provision 106.3 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 26.0 16.8 North America insurance reserves 32.7 Gain on disposal of property 21.6 Total operating profit adjustments 513.2 55.4 Adjusted operating profit note 5 317.0 339.0 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Reconciliation to non-GAAP measures and performance continued Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Reconciliation of loss profit before tax to adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings m m Loss profit before tax 326.9 152.6 Operating profit adjustments see table above 513.2 55.4 Bond make whole interest cost 10.7 Ineffectiveness on financial derivatives 1.0 Adjusted profit before tax 197.0 207.0 Adjusted tax charge see below 44.2 53.8 Non-controlling interests 5.1 3.8 Adjusted earnings 147.7 149.4 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Reconciliation of tax credit charge to adjusted tax charge m m Tax credit charge note 9 36.0 36.5 Tax effect of adjusting items note 10 55.6 17.3 Tax effect of US tax reform note 9 24.6 Adjusted tax charge 44.2 53.8 The adjusting items are as follows: Other intangible asset amortisation charges The amortisation charge for the year was 70.9m 2017: 60.2m.
The increase primarily reflects a higher charge in the North American divisions due to an incremental 7.5m software intangible amortisation this year.
Greyhound impairment Recognising the difficult trading conditions experienced by the Greyhound business in the 2017 18 financial year, the strategic plans for the business and estimates of future cash flows generated by the Greyhound division were revised.
The calculated value in use of the Greyhound division resulted in a 277.3m shortfall to the carrying value of assets 2017: 360.4m surplus.
Following their review of these cash flow estimates, the Directors concluded that there should be an impairment charge of 277.3m on the Greyhound CGU.
This is reflected in the financial statements as an impairment in full of the carrying value of Greyhound goodwill of 260.6m seenote 11, an impairment charge of 12.3m on Greyhound property, plant and equipment see note 13, an impairment charge of 2.5m on Greyhound brand and trade name and 1.9m on Greyhound software see note 12.
After these impairments, the carrying value of Greyhound is313.1m $438.8m.
TPE onerous contract provision Management have prepared updated financial forecasts for this franchise until the initial end date of 31 March 2023.
The updated forecasts are based on a number of assumptions, most significantly passenger revenue growth.
These are based on economic and other exogenous factors aswell as changes in timetables, capacity and rolling stock.
Although we are already achieving industry leading revenue growth, our forecasts suggest that we will fall short of the growth requirements in the original bid for this franchise.
Based on these forecasts the Group considers it hasan onerous contract, the value of which is estimated to be 106.3m.
Accordingly this amount has been charged to the income statement.
North America insurance reserves There have been adverse developments on a small number of aged insurance claims in North America which mainly relate to the 2014 15 and 2015 16 financial years.
In aggregate the adverse developments on these claims give rise to a cost representing a significant proportion of the respective divisional results and accordingly management consider that including such amounts in operating profit would distort year-on-year comparisons for the North American divisions.
The impact of these adverse developments was a charge of 32.7m comprising First Student 13.4m, First Transit 15.8m and Greyhound 3.5m.
Restructuring and reorganisation costs There was a charge of 26.0m 2017: 16.8m in the year for restructuring, impairment of assets and reorganisation costs relating to the business turnarounds in First Bus 20.6m and costs related to contract losses and impairment of assets in First Transit 5.4m.
Bond make whole costs The early redemption of the 300m bond in March this year resulted in a one-off 10.7m make whole interest charge.
114 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 5 Business segments and geographical information For management purposes, the Group is organised into five operating divisions First Student, First Transit, Greyhound, First Bus and First Rail.
These divisions are managed separately in line with the differing services that they provide and the geographical markets which they operate in.
The principal activities of these divisions are described in the Strategic report.
2 EBITDA is adjusted operating profit less capital grant amortisation plus depreciation.
3 Although the segment results are used by management to measure performance, statutory operating loss profit by operating division is also disclosed forcompleteness.
4 Segment assets and liabilities are determined by identifying the assets and liabilities that relate to the business of each segment but excluding intercompany balances, net debt and taxation.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 Business segments and geographical information continued The segment results for the year to 31 March 2017 are as follows: First First Group 1 Student Transit Greyhound First Bus First Rail items Total m m m m m m m Revenue 1,780.3 1,042.0 684.7 861.7 1,268.8 15.8 5,653.3 2 EBITDA 348.7 91.9 79.4 104.5 98.8 36.7 686.6 Depreciation 177.6 18.6 36.8 67.5 50.3 2.1 352.9 Capital grant amortisation 5.3 5.3 2 Segment results 171.1 73.3 42.6 37.0 53.8 38.8 339.0 Other intangible asset amortisation charges 49.6 1.8 8.5 0.3 60.2 Other adjustments note 4 2.5 0.2 19.6 10.9 1.2 4.8 3 Operating profit 119.0 71.3 53.7 26.1 53.5 40.0 283.6 Investment income 1.2 Finance costs 132.2 Profit before tax 152.6 Tax 36.5 Profit after tax 116.1 First First Group 1 Student Transit Greyhound First Bus First Rail items Total Other information m m m m m m m Capital additions 165.9 17.8 31.7 63.9 75.4 2.9 357.6 Total Total Net assets assets liabilities liabilities 4 Balance sheet m m m First Student 2,918.4 414.9 2,503.5 First Transit 600.6 161.1 439.5 Greyhound 694.5 363.7 330.8 First Bus 769.5 364.6 404.9 First Rail 245.8 482.8 237.0 5,228.8 1,787.1 3,441.7 1 Group items 130.3 183.0 52.7 Net debt 400.9 1,690.8 1,289.9 Taxation 26.5 49.7 23.2 Total 5,786.5 3,710.6 2,075.9 1 Group items comprise Tram operations, central management and other items.
3 Although the segment results are used by management to measure performance, statutory operating profit by operating division is also disclosed for completeness.
Geographical information The Groups operations are located predominantly in the United Kingdom, United States of America and Canada.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups revenue by geographical market: 2018 2017 Revenue m m United Kingdom 2,864.4 2,146.3 United States of America 3,130.1 3,092.6 Canada 403.9 414.4 6,398.4 5,653.3 116 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 5 Business segments and geographical information continued The following is an analysis of non-current assets excluding financial instruments, deferred tax and pensions, the carrying amount of segment assets, and additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are located: Non-current assets excluding Additions to property, financial instruments plant and equipment Carrying amount deferred tax and pensions and intangible assets of segment total assets 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m United Kingdom 795.3 803.1 155.5 142.4 1,821.7 1,505.6 United States of America 2,620.6 3,270.6 256.8 208.9 3,124.2 3,845.2 Canada 291.8 342.8 21.2 6.3 347.2 409.2 Unallocated corporate items 40.6 26.5 3,707.7 4,416.5 433.5 357.6 5,333.7 5,786.5 6 Operating loss profit Operating loss profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2018 2017 m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 13 389.6 352.9 Operating lease charges note 34 522.6 300.9 Other intangible asset amortisation charges note 12 70.9 60.2 Capital grant amortisation 16.0 5.3 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 575.1 571.6 Employee costs note 7 3,162.5 2,944.6 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.3 18.9 Impairment charges 284.8 4.5 TPE onerous contract provision note 4 106.3 North America insurance reserves note 4 32.7 Auditors remuneration see below 2.3 2.0 Rail franchise payments 226.9 140.8 1 Other operating costs 1,228.6 1,016.4 6,594.6 5,369.7 1 Includes 63.5m 2017: 66.1m received or receivable from government bodies in respect of bus service operator grants and fuel duty rebates.
Amounts payable to Deloitte LLP and its associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of audit and non-audit services are shown below: 2018 2017 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.0 1.7 Total audit fees 2.1 1.8 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.2 Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Corporate governance report on pages 63 to 64.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Employee costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors was: 2018 2017 Number Number Operational 94,225 95,402 Administration 5,821 5,489 100,046 100,891 The aggregate remuneration including Executive Directors comprised: 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 2,768.2 2,587.2 Social security costs 306.8 286.1 Pension costs note 36 87.5 71.3 3,162.5 2,944.6 Wages and salaries include a charge in respect of share-based payments of 8.9m 2017: 8.2m.
Disclosures on Directors remuneration, share options, long term incentive schemes and pension entitlements required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by the Financial Conduct Authority are contained in the tables notes within the Directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 94 and form part of these audited financial statements.
8 Investment income and finance costs 2018 2017 m m Investment income Bank interest receivable 1.3 1.2 Finance costs Bonds 84.3 83.7 Bank borrowings 8.8 11.4 Senior unsecured loan notes 1.3 4.3 Loan notes 1.1 1.0 Finance charges payable in respect of HP contracts and finance leases 4.6 6.4 Notional interest on long term provisions 11.0 17.5 Notional interest on pensions 10.2 8.9 Finance costs before adjustments 121.3 133.2 1 Bond make whole cost 10.7 Hedge ineffectiveness on financial derivatives 1.0 Total finance costs 132.0 132.2 Finance costs before adjustments 121.3 133.2 Investment income 1.3 1.2 Net finance cost before adjustments 120.0 132.0 1 The early redemption of the 300m bond in March this year resulted in a one-off 10.7m make whole interest charge.
Finance costs are stated after charging fee expenses of 2.7m 2017: 2.5m.
There was no interest capitalised into qualifying assets in either the year ended 31 March 2018 or 31 March 2017.
118 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 9 Tax on loss profit on ordinary activities 2018 2017 m m Current tax 8.9 9.5 Adjustments with respect to prior years 13.8 Total current tax charge credit 8.9 4.3 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 14.1 50.4 Adjustments with respect to prior years 6.2 9.6 Adjustments attributable to changes in tax rates and laws 24.6 Total deferred tax credit charge note 25 44.9 40.8 Total tax credit charge 36.0 36.5 The adjustments with respect to prior years includes the release of tax provisions.
UK corporation tax is calculated at 19% 2017: 20% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Tax for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
As the Groups parent company is domiciled and listed in the UK the Group uses the UK corporation tax rate to reconcile its effective tax rate.
The tax credit charge for the year can be reconciled to the UK corporation tax rate as follows: 2018 2018 2017 2017 m % m % Loss profit before tax 326.9 100.0 152.6 100.0 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 19% 2017: 20% 62.1 19.0 30.5 20.0 Recurring items: Non deductible expenditure 2.3 0.7 1.4 0.9 Non taxable income 0.3 0.2 Tax rates outside of the UK 2.5 0.8 26.0 17.0 Unrecognised losses 3.2 1.0 3.1 2.0 Financing deductions 5.6 3.6 Non-recurring items: Unrecognised losses 4.6 3.0 Goodwill impairment 49.5 15.1 Reduced deferred tax rates on current year temporary differences 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.1 US tax reform 24.6 7.5 Reduction in tax provisions for uncertain tax positions relating to prior years 3.2 1.0 20.7 13.5 Other adjustments in relation to prior years 3.0 0.9 2.7 1.8 Tax credit charge and effective tax rate for the year 36.0 11.0 36.5 23.9 The goodwill impairment attracts no tax benefit and the above reconciling item is calculated at the UK tax rate of 19%.
During the year the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which included a reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% was enacted.
As a result of the US tax law changes the brought forward deferred tax balances were remeasured leading to a net tax credit of 24.6m in the income statement and charges to other comprehensive income of 20.4m in respect of pensions and 1.4m in respect of cash flow hedges.
The Group recognises provisions for transactions and events in its open tax returns and its ongoing tax audits whose treatment for tax purposesis uncertain, in respect of multiple years.
These uncertainties exist due to differing interpretations of local tax laws and decisions by taxauthorities.
When calculating the carrying amounts management make assumptions relating to the estimated tax which could be payable.
The Group maintains engagement with tax authorities and engagement with peer groups that may have similar issues.
We engage advisers to obtain opinion on tax legislation and we monitor proposed changes in legislation.
The reduction in tax provisions for uncertain tax positions relating to prior years reduces the deferred tax provision and arises from the closure ofearlier tax years due to the passage of time.
Should certain tax returns be closed from the passage of time in the next financial year then the amount required to be provided in deferred tax could reduce by up to 5m.
Future years tax charges would be impacted if the final liability for currently open years is different from the amount currently provided for.
Thefuture tax charge may also be affected by the levels and mix of profits in the countries in which we operate including differing foreign exchange rates that apply to those profits.
Changes to the prevailing tax rates and tax rules in any of the countries in which we operate mayalsoimpact future tax charges.
At the balance sheet date the change to reduce the UK corporation tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020 hasbeen enacted.
In addition to the amount charged credited to the income statement, deferred tax relating to actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension schemes6.2m 2017: 7.3 m and cash flow and net investment hedges 9.3m 2017: 19.0m.
These charges and those in relation to the USTax Cuts and Job Act of 21.8m amount to a total charge of 37.3m 2017:11.7m recognised in other comprehensive income.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Earnings per share EPS EPS is calculated by dividing the loss attributable to equity shareholders of 296.0m basic loss 2017: profit 112.3m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of 1,205.1m 2017: 1,204.8m.
The number of ordinary shares used for the basic and diluted calculations are shown inthe table below.
The difference in the number of shares between the basic calculation and the diluted calculation represents the weighted average number of potentially dilutive ordinary share options.
2018 2017 Number Number m m Weighted average number of shares used in basic calculation 1,205.1 1,204.8 Executive share options 17.9 11.5 Weighted average number of shares used in the diluted calculation 1,223.0 1,216.3 The adjusted EPS is intended to highlight the recurring operating results of the Group before amortisation charges, ineffectiveness on financial derivatives and certain other adjustments as set out in note 4.
A reconciliation is set out below: 2018 2017 m EPS p m EPS p Basic loss profit EPS 296.0 24.6 112.3 9.3 Amortisation charges note 12 70.9 5.9 60.2 5.0 Ineffectiveness on financial derivatives 1.0 0.1 Bond make whole cost 10.7 0.9 Other adjustments note 4 442.3 36.7 4.8 0.4 Tax effect of above adjustments 55.6 4.6 17.3 1.4 Tax effect of change in US tax legislation 24.6 2.0 Adjusted profit EPS 147.7 12.3 149.4 12.4 2018 2017 Diluted EPS pence pence Diluted EPS 24.2 9.2 Adjusted diluted EPS 12.1 12.3 11 Goodwill 2018 2017 m m Cost At 1 April 1,960.1 1,740.3 Additions note 30 1.2 Foreign exchange movements 199.9 219.8 At 31 March 1,761.4 1,960.1 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 4.0 4.0 Impairment 260.6 At 31 March 264.6 4.0 Carrying amount At 31 March 1,496.8 1,956.1 120 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 11 Goodwill continued Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2018 2017 m m Carrying amount First Student 1,137.6 1,271.1 First Transit 275.4 309.5 Greyhound 291.9 First Bus 78.2 78.0 First Rail 5.6 5.6 1,496.8 1,956.1 Impairment testing At the year end the carrying value of goodwill was reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
For the purposes ofthis impairment review goodwill has been tested for impairment on the basis of discounted future cash flows arising in each relevant CGU.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent budget for 2018 19 and Three-Year Plan projections up to 2020 21 2017:Three-Year Plan projections up to 2019 20 which take account of both past performance and expectations for future market developments.
The projections for First Student assume the incremental benefits of the existing recovery plan, the programme to address contract portfolio pricing together with an economic recovery.
Cash flows beyond the plan period are extrapolated using estimated growth rates of 2.5% 2017: 2.5% for the United Kingdom and 2.8% 2017: 3.0% for North America.
Cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of7.3% 2017: 7.3% for the United Kingdom CGUs and 8.2% 2017: 8.7% for the North American CGUs to arrive at the value in use.
The pre-tax discount rates applied are derived from a market participants weighted average cost of capital.
The assumptions used in the calculation of the Groups weighted average cost of capital are benchmarked to externally available data.
The Directors consider the assumptions to be reasonable based on the historic performance of each CGU and to be realistic in the light of economic and industry forecasts.
The calculation of value in use for each CGU is most sensitive to the principal assumptions of discount rate, growth rates and margins achievable.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the calculations and confirms that no reasonably possible changes in the assumptions would cause the carrying amount of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount in respect of the First Transit, First Bus and First Rail divisions.
The value in use of the First Student division exceeds its carrying amount by 662.5m 2017: 709.2m.
The sensitivity analysis indicates that the First Student margin or growth rates would need to fall in excess of 212 or 181 basis points respectively compared to medium term double digit margin expectations for there to be an impairment to the carrying value of net assets in this business.
An increase in the discount rate in excess of160 basis points would lead to the value in use of the division being less than its carrying amount.
Following the review of goodwill, the Directors have concluded that there is no impairment to First Student, First Transit, First Bus and First Rail.
Recognising the difficult trading conditions experienced by the Greyhound business in the 2017 18 financial year, the strategic plans for the business and estimates of future cash flows generated by the Greyhound division were revised.
This is reflected in the financial statements as an impairment in full of the carrying value of Greyhound goodwill of 260.6m, animpairment of 12.3m on Greyhound property, plant and equipment see note 13, an impairment of 2.5m on Greyhound brand and trade name and 1.9m on Greyhound software see note 12.
After these impairments, the carrying value of Greyhound is 313.1m $438.8m.
The Greyhound business impairment review is sensitive to a change in the assumptions used, most notably to changes in the discount rate, terminal growth rate or terminal margin.
A summary of the movements in the impairment charge from a change in these assumptions isasfollows: 0.1% movement in the discount rate would increase or decrease the impairment charge by 5.6m 0.1% movement in the terminal growth rate would increase or decrease the impairment charge by 5.3m 0.1% movement in terminal margin would increase or decrease the impairment charge by 9.8m.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Other intangible assets Greyhound Customer brand and Rail franchise contracts trade name agreements Software Total m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2016 433.8 66.0 5.5 11.6 516.9 Additions 30.2 30.2 Cessation of franchise 5.5 5.5 Foreign exchange movements 57.2 8.7 1.1 67.0 At 31 March 2017 491.0 74.7 42.9 608.6 Acquisitions note 30 0.7 0.7 Additions 26.8 26.8 Disposals 1.9 1.9 Foreign exchange movements 52.0 7.8 4.7 64.5 At 31 March 2018 439.7 66.9 63.1 569.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2016 320.9 28.3 5.5 354.7 Charge for year 50.1 3.5 6.6 60.2 Cessation of franchise 5.5 5.5 Foreign exchange movements 44.5 3.9 0.2 48.6 At 31 March 2017 415.5 35.7 6.8 458.0 Charge for year 53.3 3.5 14.1 70.9 Disposals 1.0 1.0 1 Impairment 2.5 1.9 4.4 Foreign exchange movements 47.1 3.9 1.4 52.4 At 31 March 2018 421.7 37.8 20.4 479.9 Carrying amount At 31 March 2018 18.0 29.1 42.7 89.8 At 31 March 2017 75.5 39.0 36.1 150.6 1 The impairment charges of 4.4m in 2018 relates to assets associated with Greyhound 2.5m of brand and trade name and 1.9m of software.
Intangible assets include customer contracts, the Greyhound brand and trade name which were acquired through the purchases of businesses and subsidiary undertakings and software.
These are being amortised over their useful economic lives as shown in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
An amount of 0.1m 2017: 0.2m in respect of assets under construction is included in the carrying amount of land and buildings, plantandequipment.
At 31 March 2018 the Group had entered into contractual capital commitments amounting to 216.8m 2017: 128.8m, principally representingbuses ordered in the United Kingdom and North America and commitments under the Great Western Railway and SouthWesternRailway franchises.
Property, plant and equipment held under HP contracts and finance leases are analysed as follows: 2018 2017 m m 291.4 456.9 Passenger carrying vehicle fleet cost depreciation 138.0 192.9 Net passenger carrying vehicle fleet 153.4 264.0 Other plant and equipment cost 0.6 depreciation 0.5 Net other plant and equipment 0.1 Total net book value 153.4 264.1 The title to the assets under HP contracts and finance leases is held by the lenders.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Investments 2018 2017 m m US deferred compensation plan assets 28.6 30.3 Other investments 2.4 3.0 31.0 33.3 15 Subsidiaries A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given below.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is disclosed in note 38.
UK local bus and coach operators Rail companies North American school bus operators 2 First Aberdeen Limited First Greater Western Limited First Canada ULC 3 First Beeline Buses Limited First TransPennine Express Limited First Student, Inc First Cymru Buses Limited Hull Trains Company Limited Transit contracting and fleet maintenance First Eastern Counties Buses Limited First MTR South Western Trains Limited 70% 3 First Essex Buses Limited First Transit, Inc 1 3 First Glasgow No.
1 Limited First Vehicle Services, Inc 1 First Glasgow No.
2 Limited First Hampshire and Dorset Limited First Manchester Limited North American coach operators 3 First Midland Red Buses Limited Americanos USA, Inc 3 First Potteries Limited Greyhound Lines, Inc 1 2 First Scotland East Limited Greyhound Canada Transportation ULC First West of England Limited First South West Limited First South Yorkshire Limited First West Yorkshire Limited First York Limited Leicester CityBus Limited 94% 1 Midland Bluebird Limited All subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned by FirstGroup plc at the end of the year except where percentage of ownership is shown above.
Allthese companies above are incorporated in United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales except those: 1 Registered in Scotland.
3 Incorporated in the United States of America.
All shares held in subsidiary undertakings are ordinary shares, with the exception of Leicester CityBus Limited where the Group owns 100% ofitsredeemable cumulative preference shares, as well as 94% of its ordinary shares.
All of these subsidiary undertakings are owned via intermediate holding companies.
16 Inventories 2018 2017 m m Spare parts and consumables 56.0 64.5 In the opinion of the Directors there is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost.
There was no material write-down of inventories during the current or prior year.
124 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 17 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 Amounts due within one year m m Trade receivables 482.2 457.3 Provision for doubtful receivables 4.3 4.2 Other receivables 106.8 74.6 Prepayments 103.7 79.0 Accrued income 199.6 184.2 888.0 790.9 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that financial loss arises from failure by a customer or counterparty to meet its obligations under a contract.
Credit risk exists in relation to the Groups financial assets, which comprise trade and other receivables of 888.0m 2017: 790.9m, cash andcash equivalents of 555.7m 2017: 400.9m and derivative financial instruments of 52.3m 2017: 50.3m.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk for all financial assets at the balance sheet date was 1,496.0m 2017: 1,242.1m.
The exposure isspread over a large number of unconnected counterparties and the maximum single concentration with any one counterparty was 73.0m 2017: 62.0m at the balance sheet date.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
The provision for doubtful receivables at the balance sheet date was 4.3m 2017: 4.2m.
Most trade receivables are with public or quasi public bodies, principally the DfT, Network Rail and city councils in the UK and school bus boards and city municipal authorities in North America.
The Group does not consider any of these counterparties to be a significant risk.
Each division within the Group has a policy governing credit risk management on trade receivables.
The counterparties for bank balances and derivative financial instruments are mainly represented by lending banks and large banks with a minimum of A credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
These counterparties are subject to approval by the Board.
Grouptreasury policy limits the maximum deposit with any one counterparty to 75m, and limits the maximum term to three months.
An analysis of financial assets which are past due but not impaired and movements in the provision for doubtful receivables are set out below: 2018 2017 Aging past due but not impaired trade receivables m m Less than 30 days 18.2 23.0 30 90 days 8.2 11.9 90 180 days 5.1 4.1 180 days 13.2 7.4 Total 44.7 46.4 2018 2017 Movement in the provision for doubtful receivables m m At 1 April 4.2 4.3 Amounts written off during the year 4.3 3.0 Amounts recovered during the year 0.6 0.7 Increase in allowance recognised in the income statement 5.4 3.2 Foreign exchange movements 0.4 0.4 At 31 March 4.3 4.2 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Assets held for sale 2018 2017 m m Assets held for sale 0.9 2.9 The balances primarily relate to First Student yellow school buses which are surplus to requirements and are being actively marketed on the internet.
Gains or losses arising on the disposal of such assets are included in arriving at operating profit in the income statement.
The Group expects to sell such yellow school buses within 12 months of them going onto the for sale list.
The value at each balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of their resale value less cost of disposal.
There are no liabilities associated with these held for sale assets at the balance sheet date.
Movement in assets held for sale m At 1 April 2017 2.9 Net book value of additions 7.2 Net book value of disposals 9.0 Foreign exchange movements 0.2 At 31 March 2018 0.9 19 Trade and other payables 2018 2017 Amounts falling due within one year m m Trade payables 248.8 255.6 Other payables 230.2 217.6 Accruals 785.6 607.3 Deferred income 83.6 49.7 Season ticket deferred income 89.2 25.1 1,437.4 1,155.3 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
Also included within accruals are provisions of 203.7m 2017: 169.6m as disclosed in note 26.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 29 days 2017: 32 days.
The Group has controls in place to ensure that all payments are paid within the appropriate credit timeframe.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents 555.7 400.9 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates to the carrying value.
Cash and cash equivalents includes ring-fenced cash of 392.3m 2017: 259.8m.
Under the terms of therail franchise agreements, cash can only be distributed by these subsidiaries up to the lower of the amount of their retained profits or the amount determined by prescribed liquidity ratios.
The ring-fenced cash represents cash which is not available for distribution and any additional amounts required to satisfy the liquidity ratios at the balance sheet date.
Ring-fenced cash balances of 0.8m 2017: 4.0m are held outside theFirst Rail subsidiaries.
126 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 21 Borrowings 2018 2017 m m On demand or within 1 year Finance leases note 22 47.1 65.3 Senior unsecured loan notes 80.0 1 Bond 8.125% repayable 2018 12.9 Bond 6.125% repayable 2019 261.3 3.0 1 Bond 8.75% repayable 2021 30.1 30.2 1 Bond 5.25% repayable 2022 5.8 5.8 1 Bond 6.875% repayable 2024 7.2 7.2 Total current liabilities 351.5 204.4 Within 1-2 years Finance leases note 22 39.5 53.5 Loan notes note 23 9.5 9.5 Bond 8.125% repayable 2018 298.8 Bond 6.125% repayable 2019 270.0 49.0 631.8 Within 2-5 years Syndicated loan facilities 197.0 Finance leases note 22 18.0 64.8 Bond 8.75% repayable 2021 358.9 369.0 Bond 5.25% repayable 2022 321.6 895.5 433.8 Over 5 years Finance leases note 22 0.1 0.1 Senior unsecured loan notes 195.2 Bond 5.25% repayable 2022 321.1 Bond 6.875% repayable 2024 199.8 199.6 395.1 520.8 Total non-current liabilities at amortised cost 1,339.6 1,586.4 1 Relates to accrued interest.
Fair value of bonds and senior unsecured loan notes issued 2018 2017 Par value Interest Fair value Fair value m payable Month m m Bond 8.125% repayable 2018 300.0 Annually September 342.6 Bond 6.125% repayable 2019 250.0 Annually January 262.2 274.1 Bond 8.75% repayable 2021 350.0 Annually April 448.0 474.1 Bond 5.25% repayable 2022 325.0 Annually November 373.4 384.9 Bond 6.875% repayable 2024 200.0 Annually September 255.2 266.4 $m m m Senior unsecured loan notes 275.0 Semi-annually March & September 194.8 Senior unsecured loan notes Semi-annually April & October 82.0 2017: $100m The fair value of the bonds and senior unsecured loan notes are inclusive of accrued interest.
The fair values are calculated by discounting the future cash flow that will arise under the contracts.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21 Borrowings continued Effective interest rates The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows: 2018 Maturity 2017 Maturity Bank overdraft LIBOR 1% LIBOR 1% Bank borrowings LIBOR 0.5% July 2021 LIBOR 0.6% July 2021 Bond 2018 8.32% September 2018 1 Bond 2019 6.18% January 2019 6.18% January 2019 1 Bond 2021 8.87% April 2021 8.87% April 2021 Bond 2022 5.49% November 2022 5.49% November 2022 Bond 2024 6.95% September 2024 6.95% September 2024 Senior unsecured loan notes 4.37% March 2025 March 2028 4.39% October 2017 LIBOR 0.6% up to LIBOR 0.6% up to HP contracts and finance leases average fixed rate of 4.2% Various average fixed rate of 4.2% Various LIBOR 1.0% up to LIBOR 1.0% up to Loan notes total fixed rate of 11.0% Various total fixed rate of 11.0% Various 1 The 2019 and 2021 bonds have been swapped to floating rates and hence have a lower effective rate net of these swaps.
2018 2017 Carrying amount of gross borrowings by currency m m Pounds Sterling 1,392.4 1,541.5 US Dollar 291.7 239.2 Canadian Dollar 7.0 10.1 1,691.1 1,790.8 Borrowing facilities The Group had 603.0m 2017: 800.0m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities as at year end.
Total bank borrowing facilities at year end stood at 815.7m 2017: 816.4m of which 800.0m 2017: 800.0m was committed and 15.7m 2017: 16.4m was uncommitted.
Capital management We aim to maintain an investment grade credit rating and appropriate balance sheet liquidity headroom.
The Group has net debt:EBITDA of 1.5times as at March 2018 2017: 1.9 times.
Liquidity within the Group has remained strong.
At year end there was 766.4m 2017: 941.1m of committed headroom and free cash.
Largelydue to seasonality in the North American school bus business, committed headroom typically reduces during the financial year uptoOctober and increases thereafter.
The Groups Treasury policy requires a minimum of 150m of committed headroom at all times.
The Groups net debt, excluding accrued bond interest at 31 March 2018, was 1,070.3m 2017: 1,289.9m as set out on page 43 of the Financialreview.
128 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 22 HP contracts and finance leases The Group had the following obligations under HP contracts and finance leases as at the balance sheet dates: 2018 2017 2018 Present 2017 Present Minimum value of Minimum value of payments payments payments payments m m m m Due in less than one year 48.3 47.1 66.9 65.3 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 41.6 39.5 56.4 53.5 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 19.6 18.0 70.2 64.8 Due in more than five years 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 109.6 104.7 193.6 183.7 Less future financing charges 4.9 9.9 104.7 104.7 183.7 183.7 HP lease obligations Pounds Sterling denominated fixed rate leases 2018 2017 Pounds Sterling fixed rate leases 1.2m 11.1m Average remaining lives 1 years 2 years Effective borrowing rate 3.68% 2.96% US Dollar denominated fixed rate leases 2018 2017 US Dollar fixed rate leases 96.5m 159.2m Average remaining lives 2 years 2 years Effective borrowing rate 2.50% 2.57% Canadian Dollar denominated fixed rate leases 2018 2017 Canadian Dollar fixed rate leases 7.0m 10.1m Average remaining lives 2 years 2 years Effective borrowing rate 4.27% 4.13% The Group considers there to be no material difference between the fair values of the Pounds Sterling and Canadian Dollar finance leases and thecarrying amount in the balance sheet.
The US Dollar finance leases have a fair value of 99.1m 2017: 156.8m.
The fair value is calculated bydiscounting future cash flows that will arise under the lease agreements.
23 Loan notes The Group had the following loan notes issued as at the balance sheet dates: 2018 2017 m m Due in more than one year but not more than two years 9.5 9.5 The loan notes have been classified by reference to the earliest date on which the loan note holder can request redemption.
Loan notes of 8.7m 2017: 8.7m are supported by unsecured bank guarantees.
The loan notes have an average effective borrowing rate of 10.1% 2017: 10.1% and an average remaining term of 3 years 2017: 4 years assuming that the holders do not request redemption.
The fair value of the loan notes has been determined to be 11.2m 2017: 12.3m.
Thishasbeen calculated by discounting future cash flows that will arise under the loan notes.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments 2018 2017 m m Total derivatives Total non-current assets 25.0 48.6 Total current assets 27.3 1.7 Total assets 52.3 50.3 Total current liabilities 6.7 29.5 Total non-current liabilities 3.0 8.6 Total liabilities 9.7 38.1 Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value Non-current assets Coupon swaps fair value hedge 17.6 48.6 Fuel derivatives cash flow hedge 7.4 25.0 48.6 Current assets Coupon swaps fair value hedge 11.4 Fuel derivatives cash flow hedge 15.9 0.6 Currency forwards cash flow hedge 0.7 27.3 1.3 Current liabilities Fuel derivatives cash flow hedge 1.4 29.4 Currency forwards cash flow hedge 5.3 0.1 6.7 29.5 Non-current liabilities Currency forwards cash flow hedge 2.9 Fuel derivatives cash flow hedge 0.1 8.6 3.0 8.6 Derivatives classified as held for trading Current assets Currency forwards 0.4 Total cash flow hedges are an asset of 13.6m 2017: 36.8m liability.
Total fair value hedges are an asset of 29.0m 2017: 48.6m.
During the year 33.7m was credited to the hedging reserve in respect of cash flow hedges 2017: 13.3m credited.
The following losses transferred from equity into profit or loss during the year are included in line items in the consolidated income statement: 2018 2017 m m Operating losses 11.4 56.4 130 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 24 Financial instruments continued Fair value of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities including cash, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis: 2018 Fair value Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total m m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 555.7 555.7 555.7 Trade and other receivables 584.7 584.7 584.7 Derivative financial instruments 52.3 52.3 52.3 Financial liabilities and derivatives Borrowings 197.0 1,652.1 1,849.1 1,691.1 Trade and other payables 1,437.4 1,437.4 1,437.4 Derivative financial instruments 9.7 9.7 9.7 2017 Fair value Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total m m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 400.9 400.9 400.9 Trade and other receivables 527.7 527.7 527.7 Derivative financial instruments 50.3 50.3 50.3 Financial liabilities and derivatives Borrowings 1,958.7 1,958.7 1,790.8 Trade and other payables 1,155.3 1,155.3 1,155.3 Derivative financial instruments 38.1 38.1 38.1 Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the current or prior year.
Fair values Fair values at 31 March at 31 March 2018 2017 Fair value Financial assets liabilities m m hierarchy Valuation technique s and key inputs Derivative contracts 1 Coupon swaps 29.0 48.6 Level 2 Discounted cash flow: future cash flows are estimated based on forward interest rates and contract interest rates and then discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of the various counterparties.
2 Fuel derivatives 21.8 37.4 Level 2 Discounted cash flow: future cash flows are estimated based on forward fuel prices and contract rates and then discounted at a ratethat reflects the credit risk of the various counterparties.
3 Currency forwards 8.2 1.0 Level 2 Discounted cash flow: future cash flows are estimated based on forward foreign exchange rates and contract rates and then discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of the various counterparties.
4 Trade and other receivables 584.7 527.7 Level 2 Carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
5 Trade and other payables 1,437.4 1,155.3 Level 2 Initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured atamortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
6 Borrowings 1,849.1 1,958.7 Level 1&2 Measured either on an amortised cost basis or at fair value.
Thefairvalues are calculated by discounting the future cash flowsthatwill arise under the contracts.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Financial instruments continued The following gains and losses on derivatives designated for hedge accounting have been charged through the consolidated income statement in the year: 2018 2017 m m Losses on hedging instruments in fair value hedges 21.6 9.5 Gains on hedged item attributable to hedged risk fair value hedges 21.9 10.2 Change in the fair value of derivatives classified as held for trading 0.4 0.3 0.1 1.0 Financial risk management The Group is exposed to financial risks including liquidity risk, credit risk and certain market-based risks principally being the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices.
The Group manages these risks within the context of a set of formal policies established by the Board.
Certain risk management responsibilities are formally delegated by the Board, principally to a sub-committee of the Board and to the Chief Financial Officer and to the Treasury Committee.
The Treasury Committee comprises the Chief Financial Officer and certain senior finance employees and is responsible for approving hedging transactions permitted under Board approved policies, monitoring compliance against policy and recommending changes to existing policies.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities.
The objective of the Groups liquidity risk management is to ensure sufficient committed liquidity resources exist.
The Group has a diversified debt structure largely represented by medium term unsecured syndicated committed bank facilities, medium to long term unsecured bond debt and finance leases.
Itisa policy requirement that debt obligations must be addressed well in advance of their due dates.
Group treasury policy requires a minimum of 150m of committed liquidity headroom at all times within medium term bank facilities and such facilities must be renewed or replaced well before their expiry dates.
At year end, the total amount of these facilities stood at 800.0m 2017: 800.0m, and committed headroom was 603.0m 2017: 800.0m, in addition to free cash balances of 163.4m 2017: 141.1m.
The next material contractual expiry of revolver bank facilities is in July 2021.
Largely due to the seasonality of the First Student school bus business, headroom tends to reduce from March to October and increases again by the following March.
The average duration of net debt excluding ring-fenced cash at 31 March 2018 was 4.1 years 2017: 3.6 years.
The following tables detail the Groups expected maturity of payables receivables for its derivative financial instruments and trade and other payables.
The amounts in these tables are different to the balance sheet as the table is prepared on an undiscounted cash flow basis.
Total amounts receivable per the tables are 68.0m 2017: 70.3m.
No derivative financial instruments had collateral requirements or were due on demand in any of the years.
132 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 24 Financial instruments continued Currency risk Currency risk is the risk of financial loss to foreign currency net assets, earnings and cash flows reported in pounds Sterling due to movements inexchange rates.
The Groups principal operations outside the UK are in the US and Canada, with the US being the most significant.
Consequently, the principal currency risk relates to movements in the US Dollar to pounds Sterling.
Certain and highly probable foreign currency transaction exposures may be hedged at the time the exposure arises for up to two years at specified levels, or longer if there is a very high degree of certainty.
The Group does not hedge the translation of earnings into the Group reporting currency pounds Sterling, but accepts that reported Group earnings will fluctuate as exchange rates against pounds Sterling fluctuate for the currencies in which the Company does business.
During the year, the net cash generated in each currency may be converted by Group Treasury into pounds Sterling by way of spot transactions in order to keep the currency composition of net debt broadly constant.
IFRS 7 requires the Group to show the impact on profit after tax and hedging reserve on financial instruments from a movement in exchange rates.
The following analysis details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% strengthening in pounds Sterling against the US Dollar.
The analysis has beenprepared based on the change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and being held constant throughout the reporting period.
A positive number indicates an increase in earnings or equity where pounds Sterling strengthens against the US Dollar.
2018 2017 m m Impact on profit after tax 0.7 4.8 Impact on hedging reserve 0.8 2.2 Interest rate risk The Group has variable rate debt and cash and therefore net income is exposed to the effects of changes to interest rates.
The Group treasury policy objective is to maintain fixed interest rates at a minimum of 50% of on-balance sheet net debt over the medium term, so that volatility is substantially reduced year-on-year to EPS.
The policy objective is primarily achieved through fixed rate debt.
The main floating rate benchmarks on variable rate debt are US Dollar LIBOR and pounds Sterling LIBOR.
This fixed rate protection had an average duration of 5.7 years 2017: 3.7 years.
Interest rate risk within operating leases is hedged 100% by agreeing fixed rentals with the lessors prior to inception of the lease contracts.
Fair value changes in the 250.0m 2019 and the 350.0m 2021 Sterling bonds relating to the LIBOR element are hedged with coupon swaps.
These swaps offset the fair value movements in the bond in the income statement and have the same term as the bonds.
The following sensitivity analysis details the Groups sensitivity to a 100 basis points 1% increase in interest rates throughout the reporting periodwith all other variables held constant.
2018 2017 m m Impact on profit after tax 1.8 1.9 Interest rate hedges The following table details the notional amounts of interest rate swap contracts designated as a cash flow or fair value hedge which were outstanding at the reporting date, the average fixed rate payable or receivable under these swaps and their fair value.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances at the reporting date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by discounting the future cash flows.
The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly or semi-annual basis.
The differences between the fixed and floating rates are settled on a net basis.
Average fixed rate Notional principal amount Fair value asset 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fair value hedges % % m m m m Less than one year 6.13 250 8.4 One to two years 6.13 250 20.1 Two to five years 2.21 2.21 350 350 10.5 20.4 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Financial instruments continued Fuel price risk The Group purchases diesel fuel on a floating price basis in its First Bus, First Rail, US and Canadian bus operations and therefore is exposed tochanges in diesel prices, of which the most significant element is crude oil price risk.
The Groups policy objective is to maintain a significant degree of fixed price protection in the short term with lower levels of protection over the medium term, so that the businesses affected are protected from any sudden and significant increases and have time to prepare for potentially higher costs, whilst retaining some access for potentially lower costs over the medium term.
The Group primarily uses fixed rate swap instruments to achieve significant fixed price certainty.
During the year to 31 March 2018, the Group was hedged 78% on fuel price risk.
The Group has also entered into swaps for periods from April 2018 to March 2021 with the majority of these swaps relating to the year to 31 March 2019.
The swaps give rise to monthly cash flow exchanges with counterparties to offset the underlying settlement of floating price costs, except where they have a deferred start date.
Gains or losses on fuel derivatives are recycled from equity to the income statement on qualifying hedges to achieve fixed rate fuel costs within operating results.
The following analysis details the Groups sensitivity on profit after tax and equity if the price of crude oil had been $10 per barrel higher at the year end: 2018 2017 m m Impact on profit after tax 3.4 3.2 Impact on hedging reserve 21.5 23.7 Volume at risk for the year to 31 March 2019 is 3.2m year to 31 March 2018: 3.2m barrels for which 69% is hedged to diesel price risk.
25 Deferred tax The major deferred tax liabilities assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods are asfollows: Other Accelerated Retirement temporary tax benefit differences depreciation schemes Tax losses Total m m m m m At 1 April 2016 174.2 78.3 70.7 212.3 45.7 Charge credit to income statement 22.6 8.5 19.2 28.9 40.8 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 7.3 19.0 11.7 Foreign exchange and other movements 21.2 8.8 11.7 32.4 8.3 At 31 March 2017 218.0 85.9 82.2 215.8 1.5 Credit charge to income statement 19.9 1.0 2.7 26.7 44.9 Charge to other comprehensive income 26.6 10.7 37.3 Foreign exchange and other movements 23.7 6.5 9.7 20.5 6.4 At 31 March 2018 174.4 53.8 85.9 222.0 15.5 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes: 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax assets 37.7 25.8 Deferred tax liabilities 22.2 24.3 15.5 1.5 The deferred tax asset relates to the UK and is recognised despite there being a loss in the current year caused by the non recurring TPEonerouscontract provision.
It is appropriate to recognise this deferred tax asset as the remainder of the Group in the UK is profitable.
No deferred tax has been recognised on deductible temporary differences of 52.5m 2017: 62.1m and tax losses of 141.9m 2017: 141.1m.
The earliest period in which some of the unrecognised assets will expire is year ended 31 March 2027.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 2.4m 2017: 2.4m of capital losses.
134 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 26 Provisions 2018 2017 m m Insurance claims 231.7 236.1 Legal and other 28.1 45.7 TPE onerous contract 79.2 Pensions 2.0 2.4 Non-current liabilities 341.0 284.2 Insurance Legal TPE onerous claims and other contract Pensions Total m m m m m At 1 April 2017 391.0 60.4 2.4 453.8 Charged to the income statement 196.5 27.4 106.3 330.2 Utilised in the year 192.7 17.3 0.4 210.4 Notional interest 11.0 11.0 Foreign exchange movements 37.0 2.9 39.9 At 31 March 2018 368.8 67.6 106.3 2.0 544.7 Current liabilities 137.1 39.5 27.1 203.7 Non-current liabilities 231.7 28.1 79.2 2.0 341.0 At 31 March 2018 368.8 67.6 106.3 2.0 544.7 Current liabilities 154.9 14.7 169.6 Non-current liabilities 236.1 45.7 2.4 284.2 At 31 March 2017 391.0 60.4 2.4 453.8 The current liabilities above are included within accruals in note 19.
The insurance claims provision arises from estimated exposures for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
It is anticipated that the majority of such claims will be settled within the next six years although certain liabilities in respect of lifetime obligations of 22.2m 2017: 21.7m can extend for up to 30 years.
The utilisation of 192.7m 2017: 194.3m represents payments made largely against the current liability of the preceding year.
The insurance claims provisions contains 15.5m 2017: 27.7m which is recoverable from insurance companies and is included within other receivables in note 17.
Legal and other provisions relate to estimated exposures for cases filed or thought highly likely to be filed for incidents that occurred prior to thebalance sheet date.
It is anticipated that most of these items will be settled within 10 years.
Also included are provisions in respect of costs anticipated on the exit of surplus properties which are expected to be settled over the remaining terms of the respective leases and dilapidation, other provisions in respect of contractual obligations under rail franchises and restructuring costs.
The dilapidation provisions are expected to be settled at the end of the respective franchise.
The onerous contract provision in respect of TPE has been calculated based on updated financial forecasts for this franchise until the initial end date of 31 March 2023.
These arebased on economic and other exogenous factors as well as changes in timetables, capacity and rolling stock.
Whilst the onerous contract provision is based upon managements current best estimate, there can be no certainty that actual results will be consistent with those forecast.
A reduction or increase of 0.5% in the cumulative annual passenger growth rate assumption would increase or decrease the onerous contract provision required by 27.0m.
The provisions are expected to be fully utilised within five years.
The pensions provision relates to unfunded obligations that arose on the acquisition of certain First Bus companies.
It is anticipated that this will be utilised over approximately five years.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Called up share capital 2018 2017 m m Allotted, called up and fully paid 1,210.8m 2017: 1,207.7m ordinary shares of 5p each 60.5 60.4 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income.
During the year 3.1m shares were issued to satisfy principally SAYE exercises.
28 Reserves The hedging reserve records the movement on designated hedging items.
The share premium account represents the premium on shares issued since 1999 and arose principally on the rights issue on the Ryder acquisition in 1999 and the share placings in 2007 and 2008.
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in FirstGroup plc purchased in the market and either held as treasury shares or held in trust to satisfy the exercise of share options.
Hedging reserve The movements in the hedging reserve were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Balance at 1 April 17.9 68.6 Gains losses recognised: Fuel derivatives 46.5 12.7 Currency forwards 12.8 0.6 Charged credited to income statement: Fuel derivatives 7.4 56.4 Currency forwards 4.0 Tax on derivative hedging instrument movements 10.7 19.0 Balance at 31 March 16.5 17.9 Own shares The number of own shares held by the Group at the end of the year was 7,653,968 2017: 437,005 FirstGroup plc ordinary shares of 5p each.
Ofthese, 7,464,219 2017: 247,256 were held by the FirstGroup plc Employee Benefit Trust, 32,520 2017: 32,520 by the FirstGroup plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust and 157,229 2017: 157,229 were held as treasury shares.
Both trusts and treasury shares have waived the rights to dividend income from the FirstGroup plc ordinary shares.
The market value of the shares at 31 March 2018 was 6.3m 2017: 0.6m.
Capital Total redemption Capital other reserve reserve reserves Other reserves m m m At 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017 1.9 2.7 4.6 There have been no movements on the capital redemption reserve or capital reserve during the year ended 31 March 2018.
The capital redemption reserve represents the cumulative par value of all shares bought back and cancelled.
The capital reserve arose on acquisitions in2000.
29 Translation reserve m At 1 April 2017 708.4 Movement for the financial year 324.9 At 31 March 2018 383.5 The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the balance sheets of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries offset by movements on loans used to hedge the net investment in those foreign subsidiaries.
136 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 30 Acquisition of businesses and subsidiary undertakings 2018 2017 m m Provisional fair value of net assets acquired: Property, plant and equipment 1.6 Other intangible assets 0.7 Other liabilities 0.3 2.0 Goodwill 1.2 Satisfied by cash paid and payable 3.2 On 11 August 2017, the Group completed the acquisition of Falcon Transportation, a Chicago-based provider of school and charter transportation services.
The 3.2m consideration represents 2.9m cash paid in the period and 0.3m of deferred consideration.
The business acquired during the year contributed 3.2m 2017: nil to Group revenue and 0.3m 2017: nil to Group operating loss from date of acquisition to 31 March 2018.
If the acquisitions of the business acquired during the year had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenue from this acquisition for the period would have been 4.8m 2017: nil and the Group operating profit from this acquisition attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been 0.5m 2017 nil.
31 Net cash from operating activities 2018 2017 m m Operating loss profit 196.2 283.6 Adjustments for: Depreciation charges 389.6 352.9 Capital grant amortisation 16.0 5.3 Amortisation charges 70.9 60.2 Impairment charges 284.8 4.5 Share-based payments 8.9 8.2 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.3 18.9 Operating cash flows before working capital and pensions 550.3 685.2 Decrease in inventories 4.6 1.3 Increase in receivables 168.7 36.7 Increase in payables 341.7 56.3 TPE onerous contract provision 106.3 Decrease in other provisions 10.5 30.6 Defined benefit pension payments in excess of income statement charge 47.9 37.6 Cash generated by operations 775.8 637.9 Tax paid 12.2 10.2 Interest paid 122.1 100.9 Interest element of HP contracts and finance leases 4.6 6.4 Net cash from operating activities 636.9 520.4 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Analysis of changes in net debt At At 1 April Cash Exchange 31 March 2017 flow Movements Other 2018 m m m m m Components of financing activities: Bank loans 197.0 197.0 Bonds 1,458.5 300.0 19.9 1,138.6 Fair value of interest rate coupon swaps 40.9 21.9 19.0 Senior unsecured loan notes 80.0 116.8 0.6 1.0 195.2 Finance lease obligations 183.7 62.1 15.5 1.4 104.7 Other debt 9.5 3.0 3.0 9.5 Total components of financing activities 1,690.8 48.3 19.1 2.6 1,626.0 Cash 141.1 18.2 4.1 163.4 Ring-fenced cash 259.8 132.5 392.3 Cash and Cash equivalents 400.9 150.7 4.1 555.7 Net debt 1,289.9 199.0 23.2 2.6 1,070.3 At At 1 April Cash Exchange 31 March 2016 flow Movements Other 2017 m m m m m Components of financing activities: Bank loans Bonds 1,467.5 9.0 1,458.5 Fair value of interest rate coupon swaps 51.1 10.2 40.9 Senior unsecured loan notes 105.9 41.0 15.1 80.0 Finance lease obligations 238.3 75.0 23.9 3.5 183.7 Other debt 9.7 0.1 2.8 2.7 9.5 Total components of financing activities 1,770.3 116.1 36.2 0.4 1,690.8 Cash 140.2 8.8 9.7 141.1 Ring-fenced cash 219.9 39.9 259.8 Cash and Cash equivalents 360.1 31.1 9.7 400.9 Net debt 1,410.2 147.2 26.5 0.4 1,289.9 All values above exclude accrued interest.
138 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 33 Contingent liabilities Investigations into the Croydon tram incident are ongoing and it is uncertain when they will be concluded.
The tram was operated by Tram Operations Limited TOL, a subsidiary of the Company, under a contract with a TfL subsidiary.
TOL provides the drivers and management to operate the tram services, whereas the infrastructure and trams are owned and maintained by a TfL subsidiary.
No proceedings have been commenced and, as such, itis not possible to assess whether any financial penalties or related costs could be incurred.
To support subsidiary undertakings in their normal course of business, the Company and certain subsidiaries have indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued performance bonds for 783.1m 2017: 710.4m and letters of credit for 327.7m 2017: 369.0m.
The performance bonds relate to the North American businesses of 544.6m 2017: 570.1m and the First Rail franchise operations of 238.5m 2017: 140.3m.
The letters of credit relate substantially to insurance arrangements in the UK and North America.
The parent company has committed further support facilities of up to 145.2m to First Rail Train Operating Companies.
The Company is party to certain unsecured guarantees granted to banks for overdraft and cash management facilities provided to itself and subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has given certain unsecured guarantees for the liabilities of its subsidiary undertakings arising under certain loan notes, HP contracts, finance leases, operating leases and certain pension scheme arrangements.
It also provides unsecured cross guarantees to certain subsidiary undertakings as required by VAT legislation.
First Bus subsidiaries have provided unsecured guarantees on a joint and several basis to the Trustees of the First Bus Pension Scheme.
The Group is party to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business, including but not limited to employment and safety claims.
The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and counterclaims.
No provision is made where due to inherent uncertainties, no accurate quantification of any cost, or timing of such cost, which may arise from any of the legal proceedings can be determined.
In its normal course of business First Rail has ongoing contractual negotiations with government and other organisations.
On 14 November 2017, Reading Borough Council served First Greater Western Limited GWR, a subsidiary of the Group, and Network Rail Infrastructure Limited a third party with a noise abatement notice in respect of the operations at the Reading railway depot.
The serving of the notice has been appealed and the related court hearing is currently scheduled to take place in the first quarter of 2019 unless the matter is settled between the parties before that date.
It is not possible at this stage to quantify the implications for the GWR operations, if any, if they are not ultimately successful with respect to this appeal.
34 Operating lease arrangements 2018 2017 m m Minimum lease payments made under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year: Plant and machinery 23.7 22.0 Track and station access 154.4 110.1 Hire of rolling stock 255.3 89.8 Other assets 89.2 79.0 522.6 300.9 At the balance sheet dates, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2018 2017 m m Within one year 955.6 405.1 In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,158.7 995.6 After five years 507.8 70.4 3,622.1 1,471.1 Included in the above commitments are contracts held by the First Rail businesses with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots of 1,027.6m 2017: 348.5m.
They also have contracts under which they lease rolling stock of 2,223.6m 2017: 845.4m.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35 Share-based payments Equity-settled share option plans The Group recognised total expenses of 8.9m 2017: 8.2m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
a Save as you earn SAYE The Group operates an HMRC approved savings related share option scheme.
Grants were made as set out below.
The scheme is based on eligible employees being granted options and their agreement to opening a sharesave account with a nominated savings carrier and to save weekly or monthly over a specified period.
Sharesave accounts are held with Computershare.
The right to exercise the option is at the employees discretion at the end of the period previously chosen for a period of six months.
SAYE SAYE SAYE SAYE SAYE Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Options Options Options Options Options Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,774,654 5,671,340 6,709,681 7,595,520 Awarded during the year 9,954,274 Exercised during the year 759,602 1,299,179 55,341 15,375 Lapsed during the year 1,015,052 396,939 774,931 873,816 199,161 Outstanding at the end of the year 3,975,222 5,879,409 6,706,329 9,755,113 Exercisable at the end of the year 3,975,222 Weighted average exercise price pence 94.1 97.0 85.0 86.0 83.0 Weighted average share price at date of exercise pence 126.9 102.8 113.5 112.8 N A b Deferred bonus shares DBS DBS 2007 DBS 2008 DBS 2009 DBS 2010 DBS 2011 Options Options Options Options Options Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year 18,831 46,761 31,109 63,150 117,835 Exercised during the year 17,257 18,765 3,616 8,028 29,345 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,574 27,996 27,493 55,122 88,490 Exercisable at the end of the year 1,574 27,996 27,493 55,122 88,490 Weighted average exercise price pence Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Weighted average share price at date of exercise pence 134.6 98.8 140.2 140.9 122.9 DBS 2012 DBS 2013 DBS 2014 DBS 2015 DBS 2016 DBS 2017 Options Options Options Options Options Options Number Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year 164,972 708,331 1,960,690 2,503,615 1,586,348 Granted during the year 2,144,862 Forfeited during the year 79,639 46,909 43,862 Lapsed during the year 8,876 2,096 Exercised during the year 45,980 301,773 1,598,475 116,921 2,765 1,907 Outstanding at the end of the year 118,992 406,558 362,215 2,298,179 1,534,578 2,099,093 Exercisable at the end of the year 118,992 406,558 362,215 31,397 2,312 1,673 Weighted average exercise price pence Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Weighted average share price at date of exercise pence 115.3 108.2 130.4 133.4 112.1 112.1 140 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 35 Share-based payments continued c Buy As You Earn BAYE BAYE enables eligible employees to purchase shares from their gross income.
The Company provides two matching shares for every three shares bought by employees, subject to a maximum Company contribution of shares to the value of 20 per employee per month.
If the shares are held in trust for five years or more, no income tax and national insurance will be payable.
The matching shares will be forfeited if the corresponding partnership shares are removed from trust within three years of award.
At 31 March 2018 there were 6,263 2017: 4,275 participants in the BAYE scheme who have cumulatively purchased 18,817,893 2017: 16,702,455 shares with the Company contributing 6,218,455 2017: 5,535,678 matching shares on a cumulative basis.
d Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP LTIP 2014 LTIP 2015 LTIP 2016 LTIP 2017 Options Options Options Options Number Number Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year 9,145,375 3,367,906 3,584,210 Granted during the year 6,965,893 Forfeited during the year 132,253 35,438 38,405 Lapsed during the year 7,594,201 Exercised during the year 1,414,875 Outstanding at the end of the year 4,046 3,332,468 3,545,805 6,965,893 Exercisable at the end of the year 4,046 Weighted average share price at date of exercise pence 124.4 Nil Nil Nil e Divisional Incentive Plan DIP DIP Options Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year 7,781,248 Granted during the year 1,125,912 Forfeited during the year 18,952 Lapsed during the year 7,781,248 Exercised during the year 6,316 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,100,644 Exercisable at the end of the year Weighted average exercise price pence Nil Weighted average share price at date of exercise pence 112.1 f Executive Share Plan ESP ESP 2015 ESP 2016 ESP 2017 Options Options Options Number Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,011,117 1,746,770 Granted during the year 3,432,146 Forfeited during the year 40,505 115,622 181,847 Lapsed during the year 15,061 Exercised during the year 311,372 376,499 6,176 Outstanding at the end of the year 659,240 1,239,588 3,244,123 Exercisable at the end of the year 296,716 203,934 11,163 Weighted average exercise price pence Nil Nil Nil Weighted average share price at date of exercise pence 121.0 121.8 112.1 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35 Share-based payments continued The fair values of the options granted during the last two years were measured using a Black-Scholes or other appropriate valuation models.
The inputs into the models were as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted average share price at grant date pence DBS 140.1 92.6 SAYE December 2016 107.6 SAYE December 2017 108.0 LTIP 104.7 92.6 ESP 104.7 92.6 Weighted average exercise price at grant date pence DBS SAYE December 2016 86.1 SAYE December 2017 83.0 LTIP ESP Expected volatility % DBS N A N A SAYE December 2016 35 SAYE December 2017 35 LTIP 32 37 ESP N A N A Expected life years DBS 3.0 2.75 SAYE schemes 3.0 3.0 LTIP 2.35 2.75 ESP 3.0 3.0 Rate of interest % DBS N A N A SAYE December 2016 0.3 SAYE December 2017 0.5 LTIP ESP Expected dividend yield % DBS SAYE December 2016 SAYE December 2017 LTIP ESP Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous five years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Allowances have been made for the SAYE schemes for the fact that, amongst a group of recipients some are expected to leave before an entitlement vests.
The accounting charge is then adjusted over the vesting period to take account of actual forfeitures, so although the total charge is unaffected by the pre-vesting forfeiture assumption, the timing of the recognition of the expense will be sensitive to it.
Fair values for the SAYE include a 10% per annum pre-vesting leaver assumption whereas the Executive, LTIP and deferred share plans exclude any allowance for pre-vesting forfeitures.
The Group used the inputs noted above to measure the fair value of the new share options.
2018 2017 pence pence Weighted average fair value of options at grant date DBS 140.1 92.6 SAYE December 2016 36.0 SAYE December 2017 38.0 LTIP 70.7 80.6 ESP 104.7 92.6 142 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 36 Retirement benefit schemes Non-Rail Defined contribution plans Payments to defined contribution plans are charged as an expense as they fall due.
There is no legal or constructive obligation to pay additional contributions into a defined contribution plan if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
UK The Group operates defined contribution plans for all Group and First Bus employees who have joined a pension arrangement since April 2013.
They receive a company match to their contributions, which varies by salary and or service.
North America Employees in the US have been able to join a defined contribution arrangement for many years.
They receive a company match which varies by employment status.
All new employees in Canada join a defined contribution arrangement.
Union employees join the Eastern or Western plan, whilst managers and supervisors join the Supervisory plan.
They receive a company contribution dependent on their personal contribution and the plan they are in.
The total expense recognised in the consolidated income statement of 23.9m 2017: 23.0m represents contributions payable to these plans bythe Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.
Defined benefit plans The Group sponsors 10 funded defined benefit plans across its non-rail operations, covering approximately 50,000 former and current employees.
UK The majority of defined benefit provision is through trust-based schemes.
These arrangements are closed to new entrants.
The assets of the trust-based schemes are invested separately from those of the Group, and the schemes are run independently of the Group bytrustee boards.
There is a requirement for the trustee boards to have some member representation, with the other trustee directors being company appointed.
The Trustee is responsible for the investment policy in respect of the assets of the fund, although the Company must be consulted on this, and typically has some input into the investment decisions.
Triennial valuations assess the cost of future service and the funding position.
The Company and Trustee are required to agree on assumptions for the valuations and to agree the contributions that result from these.
Deficit recovery contributions may be required in addition to future service contributions.
In agreeing contribution rates, reference must be made to the affordability of contributions by the employer.
In most arrangements, any surplus after benefits have been paid secured, can be repaid to the employer.
The First UK Bus Pension Scheme This provides pension benefits to employees in First Bus.
Historically it provided salary related benefits on a shared cost basis, but from April2013, all new members have been enrolled in the defined contribution section.
The funding level of the scheme on 5 April 2017 failed to reach a pre-agreed funding level, and as such, the scheme closed to defined benefit accrual on 5 April 2018.
A smaller Group scheme provides defined benefit pensions to Group employees.
This scheme closed to defined benefit accrual on 5 April 2018.
Local Government Pension Schemes The Group participates in three Local Government Pension Schemes LGPS, one in England and two in Scotland, which provide salary related benefits.
These differ from trust-based schemes in that their benefits and governance are prescribed by specific legislation, and they are administered by local authorities.
Contribution rates are agreed for the three-year period until the next valuation.
The Group only recognises existing surpluses relating to theLGPSwhen determining the balance sheet position, to the extent that these surpluses could be recouped by the reduction of future Companycontributions.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued North America US The Group operates two defined benefit arrangements in the US although benefit accrual ceased some years ago.
The plans are valued annually, when the funding position and minimum and maximum contributions are established.
Deficits are paid off as required by legislation.
Greyhound Canada There are three plans, relating to Eastern, Western and Supervisory employees.
All the plans are now closed to new members, although benefit accrual continues for existing members.
The plans are valued annually, when the cost of future service and the funding position are identified.
Future service costs are shared between the members and the Company, with deficit contributions being met entirely by the Company.
Valuations At their last valuations, the defined benefit schemes had funding levels between 71.0% and 108.3% 2017: 74.4% and 105.4%.
The market value of the assets at 31 March 2018 for all non-rail operation defined benefit schemes totalled 3,077m 2017: 3,123m.
Rail The Railways Pension Scheme RPS The Group currently sponsors five sections of the RPS, relating to its franchising obligations for its TOCs, and a further section for Hull Trains, itsOpen Access operator.
The RPS is governed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited, and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
The RPS is a shared cost arrangement.
All costs, and any deficit or surplus, are shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the members.
For the TOC sections, under the franchising obligations, the employers responsibility is to pay the contributions requested by the Trustee, whilstitoperates the franchise.
There is no residual liability or asset for any deficit, or surplus, which remains at the end of the franchise period.
Since the contributions being paid to each TOC section are lower than the share of the service cost that would normally be calculated under IAS19, the Group does not make any contribution towards the sections deficits.
Therefore, the Group does not need to reflect any deficit on its balance sheet.
A franchise adjustment asset exists that exactly offsets any section deficit that would otherwise remain after reflecting the cost sharing with the members.
Valuation assumptions The valuation assumptions used for accounting purposes have been made uniform to Group standards, as appropriate, when each scheme is actuarially valued.
North North First Bus First Rail America First Bus First Rail America 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 % % % % % % Key assumptions used: Discount rate 2.70 2.70 3.80 2.80 2.80 3.65 Expected rate of salary increases 2.05 3.30 2.50 2.00 3.35 2.50 Inflation CPI 2.05 2.05 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 Future pension increases 2.05 2.05 2.00 2.00 1 Post-retirement mortality life expectancy in years Current pensioners at 65: 19.8 20.6 18.1 20.1 20.6 18.9 Future pensioners at 65 aged 45 now: 21.3 21.9 19.3 21.3 21.9 20.1 A 0.1% movement in the discount rate would impact 2017 18 operating profit and the balance sheet position by approximately 1.2m and 30m respectively.
A 0.1% movement in the inflation rate would impact 2017 18 operating profit and the balance sheet position by approximately 2.9m and 25m respectively.
1 Life expectancies are weighted averages, reflecting the different underlying plans.
144 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued a Income statement Amounts charged credited to the income statement in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: North Total First Bus America non-rail First Rail Total Year to 31 March 2018 m m m m m Current service cost 21.5 10.0 31.5 72.5 104.0 Impact of franchise adjustment on operating cost 40.7 40.7 Past service loss including curtailments and settlements 0.3 0.3 0.3 Net interest cost 3.0 7.1 10.1 11.4 21.5 Impact of franchise adjustment on net interest cost 11.4 11.4 24.5 17.4 41.9 31.8 73.7 North Total First Bus America non-rail First Rail Total Year to 31 March 2017 m m m m m Current service cost 16.7 9.9 26.6 37.1 63.7 Impact of franchise adjustment on operating cost 11.3 11.3 Past service gain on TOC schemes 4.1 4.1 Net interest cost 1.1 7.7 8.8 5.8 14.6 Impact of franchise adjustment on net interest cost 5.8 5.8 17.8 17.6 35.4 21.7 57.1 Net interest comprises: 2018 2017 m m Interest cost table c 131.6 130.1 Interest income on assets table d 114.8 120.3 Interest on irrecoverable surplus table h 4.7 4.8 21.5 14.6 During the year 17.8m 2017: 11.5m of administrative expenses were incurred.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The actual return on scheme assets was: 2018 2017 m m First Bus 55.4 413.2 First Rail 6.7 146.0 North America 4.6 106.0 44.1 665.2 Reconciliation of the actual return on scheme assets: 2018 2017 m m Interest income on assets 114.8 120.3 Employee share of return on assets First Rail 2.7 58.4 Actuarial loss gain on assets 19.6 428.0 Currency loss gain 48.4 58.5 Actual return on scheme assets 44.1 665.2 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued b Balance sheet The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit pension schemes are as follows: North Total First Bus America non-rail First Rail Total At 31 March 2018 m m m m m Fair value of schemes assets 2,622.6 454.8 3,077.4 1,866.0 4,943.4 Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,570.6 617.5 3,188.1 2,951.1 6,139.2 Deficit surplus before adjustments 52.0 162.7 110.7 1,085.1 1,195.8 1 Adjustment for irrecoverable surplus table h 160.4 160.4 160.4 First Rail franchise adjustment table f 60% 648.4 648.4 Adjustment for employee share of RPS deficits 40% 434.1 434.1 Deficit in schemes 108.4 162.7 271.1 2.6 273.7 Liability recognised in the balance sheet 108.4 162.7 271.1 2.6 273.7 The amount is presented in the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Non-current assets 32.5 32.5 32.5 Non-current liabilities 140.9 162.7 303.6 2.6 306.2 108.4 162.7 271.1 2.6 273.7 North Total First Bus America non-rail First Rail Total At 31 March 2017 m m m m m Fair value of schemes assets 2,614.5 508.7 3,123.2 1,018.0 4,141.2 Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,586.6 725.4 3,312.0 1,519.9 4,831.9 Deficit surplus before adjustments 27.9 216.7 188.8 501.9 690.7 1 Adjustment for irrecoverable surplus table h 167.7 167.7 167.7 First Rail franchise adjustment table f 60% 299.1 299.1 Adjustment for employee share of RPS deficits 40% 200.8 200.8 Deficit in schemes 139.8 216.7 356.5 2.0 358.5 Liability recognised in the balance sheet 139.8 216.7 356.5 2.0 358.5 The amount is presented in the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Non-current assets 34.0 34.0 34.0 Non-current liabilities 173.8 216.7 390.5 2.0 392.5 139.8 216.7 356.5 2.0 358.5 1 The irrecoverable surplus represents the amount of the surplus that the Group could not recover through reducing future Company contributions to LGPS.
146 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued c Defined benefit obligations DBO Movements in the present value of DBO were as follows: North Total First Bus America non-rail First Rail Total m m m m m At 1 April 2017 2,586.6 725.4 3,312.0 1,519.9 4,831.9 New SWR franchise 1,246.4 1,246.4 Current service cost 21.5 10.0 31.5 72.5 104.0 Effect of settlements 4.5 4.5 4.5 Interest cost 70.8 24.1 94.9 36.7 131.6 Employee share of change in DBO not attributable to franchise adjustment 10.8 1.1 11.9 68.8 80.7 Experience gain loss on DBO 33.8 3.0 36.8 27.3 9.5 Gain on change of assumptions demographic 17.1 3.0 20.1 20.1 Loss gain on change of assumptions financial 52.2 0.5 51.7 31.8 83.5 Benefit payments 120.4 63.3 183.7 52.3 236.0 Currency gain 68.8 68.8 68.8 At 31 March 2018 2,570.6 617.5 3,188.1 2,951.1 6,139.2 North Total First Bus America non-rail First Rail Total m m m m m At 1 April 2016 2,208.9 667.9 2,876.8 1,168.5 4,045.3 Current service cost 12.7 3.4 16.1 36.1 52.2 Past service costs and curtailments 0.3 0.3 Effect of settlements 10.9 10.9 Interest cost 79.9 24.9 104.8 25.3 130.1 Employee share of change in DBO not attributable to franchise adjustment 13.3 1.3 14.6 33.5 48.1 Experience gain loss on DBO 43.3 2.7 40.6 21.0 61.6 Gain loss on change of assumptions demographic 1.9 4.3 2.4 2.4 Loss on change of assumptions financial 452.6 5.7 458.3 316.0 774.3 Benefit payments 139.4 61.3 200.7 27.3 228.0 Currency loss 85.1 85.1 85.1 At 31 March 2017 2,586.6 725.4 3,312.0 1,519.9 4,831.9 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued d Fair value of schemes assets Movements in the fair value of schemes assets were as follows: North Total First Bus America non-rail First Rail Total m m m m m At 1 April 2017 2,614.5 508.7 3,123.2 1,018.0 4,141.2 New SWR franchise 854.7 854.7 Settlement impact on assets 4.8 4.8 4.8 Interest income on assets 72.5 17.0 89.5 25.3 114.8 Company contributions 62.4 17.6 80.0 31.5 111.5 Employee contributions 10.8 1.1 11.9 20.7 32.6 Employee share of return on assets 16.9 16.9 Actuarial loss gain on assets 17.1 26.8 9.7 48.9 39.2 Benefit paid from schemes 115.1 56.8 171.9 46.2 218.1 Employer administration expenses 5.4 6.4 11.8 6.0 17.8 Currency loss 48.4 48.4 48.4 At 31 March 2018 2,622.6 454.8 3,077.4 1,866.0 4,943.4 North Total First Bus America non-rail First Rail Total m m m m m At 1 April 2016 2,281.3 455.4 2,736.7 875.5 3,612.2 Settlement impact on assets 7.1 7.1 Interest income on assets 83.6 17.2 100.8 19.5 120.3 Company contributions 50.0 14.0 64.0 21.9 85.9 Employee contributions 13.3 1.3 14.6 14.6 29.2 Employee share of return on assets 53.7 53.7 Actuarial gain on assets 329.6 30.3 359.9 68.1 428.0 Benefit paid from schemes 139.4 61.3 200.7 27.2 227.9 Employer administration expenses 3.9 6.5 10.4 1.0 11.4 Currency gain 58.3 58.3 58.3 At 31 March 2017 2,614.5 508.7 3,123.2 1,018.0 4,141.2 148 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued e Asset allocation The vast majority of the assets held by the pension arrangements are invested in pooled funds with a quoted market price.
The analysis of the schemes assets at the balance sheet dates were as follows: North Total First Bus America non-rail First Rail Total At 31 March 2018 m m m m m Global equity 890.4 167.9 1,055.9 1,055.9 Private equity 90.3 90.3 164.6 254.9 Fixed income liability driven 1,265.8 167.0 1,472.0 1.1 1,473.1 Other return seeking assets 279.8 41.4 285.4 1,660.0 1,945.4 Real estate 85.7 63.3 149.0 40.3 189.3 Cash and cash equivalents 10.6 15.2 24.8 24.8 2,622.6 454.8 3,077.4 1,866.0 4,943.4 The table above includes a cash holding of 80m that is a component of an investment designed to provide exposure to the equity market.
The portfolio will therefore benefit from equity market investment that is 80m higher than shown under equities above.
North Total First Bus America non-rail First Rail Total At 31 March 2017 m m m m m Global equity 851.8 190.3 1,042.1 1,042.1 Private equity 99.3 29.7 129.0 111.7 240.7 Fixed income liability driven 1,239.6 232.5 1,472.1 1,472.1 Other return seeking assets 275.2 6.3 281.5 871.8 1,153.3 Real estate 92.7 37.2 129.9 32.5 162.4 Cash and cash equivalents 55.9 12.7 68.6 2.0 70.6 2,614.5 508.7 3,123.2 1,018.0 4,141.2 f Accounting for First Rail pension arrangements In relation to the defined benefit pension arrangements it sponsors for employees of the rail franchises it operates, FirstGroups obligations differ from its obligations to its other pension schemes.
These are shared cost arrangements.
All the costs, and any deficit or surplus, are shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the members.
In addition, at the end of the franchise, any deficit or surplus in the scheme passes to the subsequent franchisee with no compensating payments from or to the outgoing franchise holder.
FirstGroups obligations are thus limited to its contributions payable to the schemes during the period over which it operates the franchise.
The disclosed information has been set out to illustrate the effect of this on the costs borne by FirstGroup.
In particular, 40% of the costs, gains orlosses and any deficit are attributed to the members.
In addition, the total surplus or deficit is adjusted by way of a franchise adjustment whichincludes an assessment of the changes that will arise from contracted future contributions and which is the portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be required to fund or benefit from.
The remaining balance sheet items and gains or losses relate to Hull Trains which is operated under direct access, rather than franchise.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued Reconciliation of Rail franchises: Adjustment for employee share of RPS Franchise Assets Liabilities deficits 40% adjustment Net m m m m m At 1 April 2017 1,018.0 1,519.9 200.8 299.1 2.0 New SWR franchise 854.7 1,246.4 156.7 235.0 Income statement Operating Service cost 110.8 44.3 40.7 25.8 Admin cost 6.0 6.0 Total Operating 116.8 44.3 40.7 31.8 Financing 42.2 61.2 7.6 11.4 Total Income statement 42.2 178.0 51.9 52.1 31.8 Amounts paid to from scheme Employer contributions 31.5 12.6 12.5 31.4 Employee contributions 20.8 8.3 12.3 0.2 Benefit paid 52.3 52.3 Total 52.3 20.9 0.2 31.6 Expected closing position 1,914.9 2,892.0 388.5 586.4 2.2 Change in financial assumptions 31.8 12.7 18.8 0.3 Return on assets in excess of discount rate 48.9 19.6 29.2 0.1 Experience 27.3 13.3 14.0 Total 48.9 59.1 45.6 62.0 0.4 At 31 March 2018 1,866.0 2,951.1 434.1 648.4 2.6 150 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued Adjustment for employee share of RPS Franchise Assets Liabilities deficits 40% adjustment Net m m m m m At 1 April 2016 875.5 1,168.5 117.2 174.9 0.9 Income statement Operating Service cost 60.2 24.1 15.1 21.0 Admin cost 1.0 1.0 Past service gain including curtailments 0.5 0.2 0.3 Settlements 11.8 18.2 2.6 3.8 Total Operating 11.8 42.5 21.3 11.3 21.7 Financing 32.6 42.2 3.8 5.8 Total Income statement 20.8 84.7 25.1 17.1 21.7 Amounts paid to from scheme Employer contributions 21.9 21.9 Employee contributions 14.6 14.6 Benefit paid 28.2 28.2 Total 8.3 28.2 14.6 21.9 Expected closing position 904.6 1,225.0 127.7 192.0 0.7 Change in financial assumptions 315.9 126.5 188.0 1.4 Return on assets in excess of discount rate 113.4 45.4 68.0 Experience 21.0 8.0 12.9 0.1 Total 113.4 294.9 73.1 107.1 1.3 At 31 March 2017 1,018.0 1,519.9 200.8 299.1 2.0 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued g Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Amounts presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income comprise: 2018 2017 m m Actuarial loss on DBO 53.9 710.3 Actuarial loss gain on assets 39.2 473.4 Actuarial gain on franchise adjustment 107.7 180.2 Adjustment for irrecoverable surplus 12.0 33.0 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit schemes 26.6 89.7 h Adjustment for First UK Bus irrecoverable surplus Movements in the adjustment for the First UK Bus irrecoverable surplus were as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 April 167.7 129.9 Interest on irrecoverable surplus 4.7 4.8 Actuarial gain loss on irrecoverable surplus 12.0 33.0 At 31 March 160.4 167.7 Cash contributions As at 31 March 2018 the Group is committed to make deficit recovery payments with a net present value of 207m 2017: 131m, over the period to 5 April 2029, in respect of the First UK Bus Pension Scheme.
The net present value reflects the current value of deficit recovery payments that would be required to meet the actuarial deficit in full, discounted at 7.3% per annum.
Management consider that, were a pension asset to arise in respect of this scheme, this would be fully recoverable through actions within the Groups control, in line with the rules of the scheme.
The estimated amounts of employer contributions expected to be paid to the defined benefit schemes during the financial year to 31 March 2019 is 96.0m year to 31 March 2018: 111.5m.
Risks associated with defined benefit plans: Generally the number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing rapidly, as these plans are largely closed to new entrants, and in many cases to future accrual.
Consequently, the number of defined contribution members is increasing.
The First UK Bus Pension Scheme and the FirstGroup Pension Scheme both closed to future accrual on 5 April 2018.
This change will serve to limit the risks associated with defined benefit pension provision by the Group.
Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the RPS are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, the First Rail TOCs are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise.
As such, there is only short term cash flow risk within this business.
152 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: Risk Description Mitigation Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with Asset liability modelling has been undertaken to ensure that reference to corporate bond yields: if assets underperform anyrisks taken are expected to be rewarded.
thisyield, this will create a deficit.
Most of the defined benefit arrangements hold a significant proportion of return-seeking assets equities, diversified growth funds and global absolute return funds which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, create volatility and risk in the short term.
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are linked The business has certain inflation linking in its revenue streams to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
that helps to offset this risk.
In addition, the investment strategy reviews have led to increased inflation hedging, mainly through swaps or holding Index Linked Gilts in the UK schemes.
Uncertainty over Contributions to defined benefit schemes can be unpredictable The Group engages with the Trustees and Administering level of future and volatile as a result of changes in the funding level revealed Authorities to consider how contribution requirements can be contributions at each valuation.
The level of volatility and the Groups ability to control contribution levels varies between arrangements.
Life expectancy The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide Linking retirement age to State Pension Age as in The First UK benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life Bus Pension Scheme and LGPS has mitigated this risk to some expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
Trapped surplus At termination of LGPS arrangements there is no right for the This issue is discussed with the Administering Authorities Company to receive any surplus that exists within the scheme.
whencontribution schedules are set, and the Group receives Therefore there is a risk of overfunding the schemes.
professional advice on potential ways of mitigating some of thisrisk.
Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain.
In the past these The Group receives professional advice on the impact of have led to increases in obligations, through introducing legislative changes.
pension increases, and vesting of deferred pensions, or reduced investment return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation Tax.
37 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors, which comprise the plc Board who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 94.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 m m 1 Basic salaries 1.6 1.6 Performance-related bonuses 0.1 0.5 Benefits in kind 0.1 0.0 Fees 0.7 0.6 Share-based payment 1.1 0.8 3.6 3.5 1 Basic salaries include cash emoluments in lieu of retirement benefits and car and tax allowances.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 First Bristol Limited, 8th Floor, The Point, 37 First Northern Ireland Limited, 21 Arthur Street, 38 Information about related North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Belfast, BT1 4GA undertakings First Caledonian Sleeper Limited, 395 King First Northern Railway Limited, In accordance with Section 409 of the Street, Aberdeen, AB24 5RP 4th Floor Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries First Capital Connect Limited, 4th Floor Capital and equity accounted investments as at House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH First Pioneer Bus Limited, Wallshaw Street, Oldham, OL1 3TR 31March 2018 is disclosed below: First Capital East Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR First Potteries Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR First Capital North Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 Subsidiaries wholly owned and North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF First Provincial Buses Limited, Empress Road, incorporated in the United Kingdom Southampton, Hampshire, SO14 0JW First CentreWest Buses Limited, 8th Floor The A E & F R Brewer Limited, Heol Gwyrosydd, 1 Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF First Rail Holdings Limited, 4th Floor Capital Penlan, Swansea, SA5 7BN House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH First Coaches Limited, Enterprise House, Easton Airport Buses Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, Road, Bristol, BS5 0DZ First Rail Support Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF First Cross Country Limited, 4th Floor Capital Airport Coaches Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH First Scotland East Limited, Carmuirs House, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR 300 Stirling Road, Larbert, Stirlingshire, FK5 3NJ First Cymru Buses Limited, Heol Gwyrosydd, Badgerline Group Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 Penlan, Swansea, West Glamorgan, SA5 7BN First ScotRail Limited, 395 King Street, Aberdeen, North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF AB24 5RP First Dublin Metro Limited, 4th Floor Capital Bolton Coachways and Travel Limited, Wallshaw House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH First ScotRailRailways Limited, 395 King Street, Street, Oldham, OL1 3TR Aberdeen, AB24 5RP First East Anglia Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, Bristol Bus Station Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH First Shared Services Limited, 395 King Street, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Aberdeen, AB24 5RP First East Midlands Limited, 4th Floor Capital Butler Woodhouse Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH First South West Limited, Union Street, Camborne, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR Cornwall, TR14 8HF First Eastern Counties Buses Limited, Bus Cawlett Limited, Enterprise House, Easton Road, Depot, Westway, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR First South Yorkshire Limited, Olive Grove, Bristol, BS5 0DZ Sheffield, South Yorkshire, S2 3GA First Essex Buses Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, CCB Holdings Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR First Student UK Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF 1 First European Holdings Limited, 8th Floor The CCB TV Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 North Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF First Thameslink Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH First Games Transport Limited, 8th Floor The CentreWest Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 North Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF First Trains Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, 25 Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH 1 First Glasgow Limited, 100 Cathcart Road, CentreWest London Buses Limited, 8th Floor The Glasgow, G42 7BH First TransPennine Express Limited, 4th Floor Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH First Glasgow No.
1 Limited, 100 Cathcart Road, CentreWest ESOP Trustee UK Limited, 8th Glasgow, G42 7BH First Travel Solutions Limited, Unit 20 Time Floor The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 Technology Park, Blackburn Road, Burnley, First Glasgow No.
2 Limited, 100 Cathcart Road, 1AF BB12 7TG Glasgow, G42 7BH Chester City Transport Limited, Bus Depot, First Wessex National Limited, Enterprise House, First Great Northern Limited, 4th Floor Capital Wallshaw Street, Oldham, OL1 3TR Easton Road, Bristol, BS5 0DZ House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH Crosville Limited, Bus Depot, Wallshaw Street, First West of England Limited, Enterprise House, 3 First Great Western Link Limited, 15 Canada Oldham, OL1 3TR Easton Road, Bristol, BS5 0DZ Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5GL Don Valley Buses Limited, Olive Grove, Sheffield, First West Coast Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, First Great Western Limited, 4th Floor Capital South Yorkshire, S2 3GA 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH East Coast Trains Limited, 4th Floor Capital First West Yorkshire Limited, Hunslet Park Depot, First Great Western Trains Limited, 4th Floor House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH Donisthorpe Street, Leeds, Yorkshire, LS10 1PL Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH East West Rail Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, 25 First York Limited, Hunslet Park Depot, First Greater Western Limited, Milford House Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH Donisthorpe Street, Leeds, Yorkshire, LS10 1PL 1Milford Street, Swindon, Wiltshire, SN1 1HL Eastern Scottish Omnibuses Limited, Carmuirs 1 FirstBus North Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 First Hampshire & Dorset Limited, Bus Depot, House, 300 Stirling Road, Larbert, Stirlingshire, North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Empress Road, Southampton, Hampshire, FK5 3NJ 1 SO14 0JW FirstBus South Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 ECOC Holdings Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, 1 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF First Information Services Limited, 395 King Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR Street, Aberdeen, AB24 5RP FirstBus Group Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 FB Canada Holdings Limited, 395 King Street, North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF 1 First International Holdings Limited, 8th Floor Aberdeen, AB24 5RP 1 The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF FirstBus Investments Limited, 8th Floor The FG Canada Investments Limited, 395 King Street, Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF First International No.
1 Limited, 8th Floor The Aberdeen, AB24 5RP Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF FirstGroup American Investments, 395 King 1 FG Learning & Development Limited, 8th Floor Street, Aberdeen, AB24 5RP First Manchester Limited, Wallshaw Street, The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF 1 Oldham, OL1 3TR FirstGroup Canadian Finance Limited, 8th Floor FG Properties Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF First Merging Pension Schemes Limited, 8th North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF 1 Floor The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 FirstGroup CIF Trustee Limited, 8th Floor The FGI Canada Holdings Limited, 395 King Street, 1AF Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Aberdeen, AB24 5RP First Metro Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, 25 FirstGroup Construction Limited, 8th Floor The First Aberdeen Limited, 395 King Street, Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Aberdeen, AB24 5RP 1 First Midland Red Buses Limited, Bus Depot, FirstGroup Holdings Limited, 8th Floor The Point, First Ashton Limited, Wallshaw Street, Oldham, Westway, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF OL1 3TR 1 First North West Schools Limited, Wallshaw FirstGroup QUEST Trustees Limited, 8th Floor First Beeline Buses Limited, Bus Depot, Empress Street, Oldham, OL1 3TR The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Road, Southampton, Hampshire, SO14 0JW First North West Limited, Wallshaw Street, Oldham, OL1 3TR 154 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Midland Bluebird Limited, Carmuirs House, Tram Operations Limited, Tramlink Depot, 38 Information about related 300 Stirling Road Larbert, Stirlingshire, FK5 3NJ Coomber Way, Croydon, CR0 4TQ undertakings continued Midland Travellers Limited, Hunslet Park Depot, Transportation Claims Limited, 8th Floor The 1 FirstGroup US Finance Limited, 395 King Street, Donisthorpe Street, Leeds, Yorkshire, LS10 1PL Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Aberdeen, AB24 5RP North Devon Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 North Truronian Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 North FirstGroup US Holdings, 395 King Street, Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Aberdeen, AB24 5RP 3 North Western Trains Company Limited, Wessex of Bristol Limited, Enterprise House, Fleetrisk Management Limited, Olive Grove, 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf, London, E14 5GL Easton Road, Bristol, BS5 0DZ Sheffield, South Yorkshire, S2 3GA Northampton Transport Limited, Bus Depot, West Dorset Coaches Limited, Enterprise House, G. E. Mair Hire Services Limited, 395 King Street, Westway, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR Easton Road, Bristol, BS5 0DZ Aberdeen, AB24 5RP Portsmouth Transit Limited, Empress Road, Western National Holdings Limited, 8th Floor The 1 G. A. G. Limited, Enterprise House, Easton Road, Southampton, Hampshire, SO14 0JW Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Bristol, BS5 0DZ Quickstep Travel Limited, Hunslet Park Depot, GB Extended Ventures Limited, 4th Floor Capital Donisthorpe Street, Leeds, Yorkshire, LS10 1PL Subsidiaries wholly owned House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH Reiver Ventures Properties Limited, Carmuirs andincorporated in the United States 1 GB Railways Group Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, 300 Stirling Road, Larbert, Stirlingshire, ofAmerica House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH FK5 3NJ Americanos USA, LLC, 350 N. St. Paul Street, GB Railways Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, 25 Reiver Ventures Limited, Carmuirs House, Dallas, TX 75201 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH 300 Stirling Road, Larbert, Stirlingshire, FK5 3NJ ATE Management of Duluth, 600 Vine Street, Suite GMBN Employees Share Scheme Trustee Reynard Buses Limited, Hunslet Park Depot, 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Limited, Bus Depot, Wallshaw Street, Oldham, Donisthorpe Street, Leeds, Yorkshire, LS10 1PL Lancashire, OL1 3TR Atlantic Greyhound Lines of Virginia, Inc. Rider Holdings Limited, Hunslet Park Depot, 350 N. St. Paul Street, Dallas, TX 75201 1 Great Western Holdings Limited, Milford House, Donisthorpe Street, Leeds, Yorkshire, LS10 1PL 1 Milford Street, Swindon, SN1 1HL Berkshire Transit Management, Inc. 600 Vine Rider Travel Limited, Hunslet Park Depot, Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 3 Great Western Trains Company Limited, Donisthorpe Street, Leeds, Yorkshire, LS10 1PL 15Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5GL Central Mass Transit Management Co, Inc. S Turner & Sons Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, 287Grove St, Worcester, MA 01606 Great Western Trustees Limited, Milford House, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR 1 Milford Street, Swindon, SN1 1HL Central Virginia Transit Management, Inc. Scotts Hospitality Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 600Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Grenville Motors Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Champion City Transit Management, Inc. 37North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Sheafline S. U. T. Limited, Olive Grove, Sheffield, 600Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Greyhound Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 North South Yorkshire, S2 3GA Durham City Transit Company, 600 Vine Street, Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Sheffield & District Traction Company Limited, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Greyhound UK Limited, 8th Floor The Point, Olive Grove, Sheffield, South Yorkshire, S2 3GA 37North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF First DG, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Sheffield United Transport Limited, Olive Grove, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 1 GRT Bus Group Limited, 395 King Street, Sheffield, South Yorkshire, S2 3GA Aberdeen, AB24 5RP FirstGroup Investment Corporation, 600 Vine Skillplace Training Limited, Heol Gwyrosydd, Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Gurna Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, Chelmsford, Penlan, Swansea, West Glamorgan, SA5 7BN Essex, CM1 3AR First Management Services LLC, 600 Vine Street, Smiths of Portland Limited, Enterprise House, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Halesworth Transit Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, Easton Road, Bristol, BS5 0DZ Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR First Mile Square LLC, 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, SMT Omnibuses Limited, Carmuirs House, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Hampshire Books Limited, Empress Road, 300Stirling Road, Larbert, Stirlingshire, FK5 3NJ Southampton, Hampshire, SO14 0JW First Student Management Services LLC, Southampton CityBus Limited, Empress Road, 600Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Horizon Trains Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, Southampton, Hampshire, SO14 0JW First Student, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH Southampton City Transport Company Limited, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Hull Trains Company Limited, 4th Floor Europa Empress Road, Southampton, Hampshire, House, 184 Ferensway, Hull, HU1 3UT First Transit, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, SO14 0JW Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Indexbegin Limited, Hunslet Park Depot, Sovereign Quay Limited, 8th Floor The Point, Donisthorpe Street, Leeds, Yorkshire, LS10 1PL First Transit Rail Services of MD, LLC.
600 Vine 37North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 KCB Limited, 100 Cathcart Road, Glasgow, Strathclyde Buses Limited, 100 Cathcart Road, G42 7BH First Transit Rail Services of TX, LLC.
600 Vine Glasgow, G42 7BH Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 1 Kelvin Central Buses Limited, 100 Cathcart Road, Streamline Buses Bath Limited, Enterprise Glasgow, G42 7BH First Vehicle Services, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite House, Easton Road, Bristol, BS5 0DZ 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Kelvin Scottish Omnibuses Limited, 100 Cathcart Taylors Coaches Limited, Enterprise House, Road, Glasgow, G42 7BH Easton Road, Bristol, BS5 0DZ FirstGroup America Holdings, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Kirkpatrick of Deeside Limited, 395 King Street, The FirstGroup Pension Scheme Trustee FirstGroup America, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite Aberdeen, AB24 5RP Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 London, W2 1AF Lynton Bus & Coach Limited, Bus Depot, Westway, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR FirstGroup International, Inc. 2221 E Lamar Blvd, The FirstGroup Scottish Pension Scheme Suite 500, Arlington, TX, 76007 Trustee Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 North Lynton Company Services Limited, Bus Depot, Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Westway, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR Franklin Transit Management, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 The First South & Wales Pension Scheme Mainline ESOP Trustees No 1 Limited, Olive Trustee Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 North Grove, Sheffield, South Yorkshire, S2 3GA GLI Corporate Risk Solutions, Inc. 350 N. St. Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Paul Street, Dallas, TX 75201 Mainline ESOP Trustees No 2 Limited, Olive The First UK Bus Pension Scheme Trustee Grove, Sheffield, South Yorkshire, S2 3GA Greyhound Lines, Inc. 350 N. St. Paul Street, Limited, 8th Floor The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, 1 Dallas, TX 75201 Mainline Partnership Limited, Olive Grove, London, W2 1AF Sheffield, South Yorkshire, S2 3GA H. N. S. Management Company, Inc. 600 Vine The New Great Eastern Railway Company Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 1 Mainline Partnership Pension Trustees Limited, Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, Laidlaw International Finance, Inc. 600 Vine 8th Floor The Point, 37North Wharf Road, London, London, NW1 5DH Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 W2 1AF 1 Totaljourney Limited, 4th Floor Capital House, 25 Mainline Employees Shareholding Trustees Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH Limited, Olive Grove, Sheffield, South Yorkshire, S2 3GA FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Transit Management of Spartanburg, Inc. 600 Greyhound Courier Express Limited, Blake, 38 Information about related Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Cassels & Graydon LLP, 595 Burrard Street, P. O.
Box undertakings continued 49314, Suite 2600, Three Bentall Centre, Vancouver, Transit Management of St Joseph, Inc. 600 Vine BC V7X 1L3 Laidlaw Medical Holdings, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Manhattan Equipment Supply Company Transit Management of Wilmington, Inc. Limited, 1111 International Blvd, Suite 700, Laidlaw Transportation Holdings, Inc. 600 Vine 600Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Burlington, ON, L7L 6W1 Valley Area Transit Company, Inc. 350 N. St. Paul Laidlaw Transportation Management, Inc. Street, Dallas, TX 75201 Subsidiary not wholly owned 600Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Valley Garage Co, 350 N. St. Paul Street, Dallas, butincorporated in Canada Laidlaw Transportation, Inc. 600 Vine Street, TX75201 Greyhound and Coach Canada Terminal Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Valley Transit Co, Inc. 350 N. St. Paul Street, Operation Limited 50%, 130 King Street West, Laidlaw Two, Inc.
Corporation Trust Center, Dallas, TX 75201 #1600, Toronto, ON, M5X 1J5 1209Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801 Laredo Transit Management, Inc. 2221 E Lamar Subsidiaries not wholly owned Subsidiaries wholly owned Blvd, Suite 500, Arlington, TX, 76007 butincorporated in the United States andincorporated in Puerto Rico LSX Delivery, LLC, 350 N. St. Paul Street, Dallas, ofAmerica First Transit of Puerto Rico, Inc. 600 Vine Street, TX 75201 Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 DG 21 LLC 51%, 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Merrimack Valley Area Transportation, Inc. Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 First Transit Rail of Puerto Rico, Inc. 361 San 600Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Francisco Street, San Juan, Puerto Rico SYPS LLC 87.5%, 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, MidSouth Transportation Management, Inc. Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 600Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Transportation Realty Income Partners Limited Subsidiary wholly owned National Insurance and Indemnity Corporation, Partnership 50%, 600 Vine Street Suite 1400, 30 Main Street, Suite 330, Burlington, VT 05401 andincorporated in Mexico Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Greyhound Lines Mexico, S. A. fide R. L. fide C. V. On Time Delivery Service, Inc. 350 N. St. Paul Street, Dallas, TX 75201 350 N. St. Paul Street, Dallas, TX 75201 Subsidiary wholly owned and Paratransit Brokerage Services TM, Inc. 287 incorporated in US Virgin Islands Grove Street, Worchester, MA 01606 Subsidiaries not wholly owned but Primaisla, Inc. 1 Estate Hope, St. Croix, Virgin Paratransit Management of Berkshire, Inc. incorporated in the United Kingdom Islands 600Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Careroute Limited 80%, Empress Road, Safe Ride Services, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Southampton, Hampshire, SO14 0JW Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Subsidiaries wholly owned 1 First Keolis Holdings Limited 55%, 4th Floor Shuttle Services M. I.
A. Inc. 600 Vine Street, andincorporated in Ireland Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, NW1 5DH Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Aeroporto Limited, 25-28 North Wall Quay, Dublin First Keolis TransPennine Holdings Limited South Coast Transit Management, Inc. FirstGroup Treasury Finance Ireland DAC, 55%, 4th Floor Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Airport Business Park, Dublin Airport, Dublin London, NW1 5DH Southwestern Virginia Transit Management, Last Passive Limited, 2528 North Wall Quay, Dublin First Keolis TransPennine Limited 55%, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 4th Floor Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, 45202 NW1 5DH Subsidiary wholly owned Special Transportation Services, Inc. 600 Vine First MTR South Western Trains Limited 70%, andincorporated in India Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 4th Floor Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, Transit Operations India Private Limited, Lentin NW1 5DH Springfield Area Transit Company, Inc.
Chambers, 2nd Floor, Dalal Street, Fort Mumbai 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 First Trenitalia East Midlands Rail Limited 70%, 400023 4th Floor Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, SuTran, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, NW1 5DH Ohio 45202 Subsidiary wholly owned Transit Management of Abilene, Inc. First Trenitalia West Coast Rail Limited 70%, 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 4th Floor Capital House, 25 Chapel Street, London, andincorporated in Panama NW1 5DH Transit Management of Ada County, Inc. First Transit fide Panama, Inc. Morgan & Morgan, 1 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 PTI Website Limited 20%, 8th Floor The Point, Costa del Este, MMG Tower, 23rd Floor, Panama City 37North Wharf Road, London, W2 1AF Transit Management of Alexandria, Inc. 2 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Leicester CityBus Limited 94%, Bus Depot, Subsidiaries wholly owned Westway, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR Transit Management of Ashville, Inc. 600 Vine andincorporated in Canada Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 LCB Engineering Limited 94%, Bus Depot, Autobus Transco 1988 Limited, Blake, Cassels & Westway, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR Transit Management of Canyon County, Inc. 600 Graydon LLP, 1 Place Ville Marie, Suite 3000, Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Leicester CityBus Benefits Limited 94%, Montreal, QC Bus Depot, Westway, Chelmsford, Essex, CM1 3AR Transit Management of Central Maryland, Inc. FC Investment Limited, Blake, Cassels & Graydon Nicecon Limited 50%, 395 King Street, Aberdeen, 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 LLP, 3500, 855 2 Street SW, Calgary, Alberta, AB24 5RP T2P4J8 Transit Management of Denton, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 Somerset Passenger Solutions Limited 50%, FirstCanada ULC, Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP, Somerset Energy Innovation Centre, Woodlands 3500, 855 2 Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8 Transit Management of Dutchess County, Inc. Business Park, Bristol Road, Bridgwater, Somerset, 600 Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 GCT Holdings Limited, Blake, Cassels & Graydon TA6 4FJ LLP, 3500, 855 2 Street SW, Calgary, Alberta, Transit Management of Montgomery, Inc. T2P4J8 600Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 1 Directly owned by FirstGroup plc.
GCT Investment Limited Partnership, Blake, Transit Management of Racine, Inc. 600Vine 2 All shares held in subsidiary undertakings are Cassels & Graydon LLP, 3500, 855 2 Street SW, Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 ordinary shares, with the exception of Leicester Calgary, Alberta, T2P 4J8 CityBus Limited where the Group owns 100% Transit Management of Richland, Inc. 600 Vine Gray Coach Travel, Inc. 600 Vine Street, Suite ofits redeemable cumulative preference shares Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 and94% of its ordinary shares.
Transit Management of Rocky Mount, Inc. 600 Greyhound Canada Transportation ULC, Blake, Vine Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 3 In liquidation.
Cassels & Graydon LLP, 595 Burrard Street, P. O.
Box Transit Management of Sherman, Inc. 600 Vine 49314, Suite 2600, Three Bentall Centre, Vancouver, 4 On 11 May 2018 First Bristol Limited changed its Street, Suite 1400, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 BC V7X 1L3 name to First Bus Central Services Limited.
156 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018
