Shareholder information Annual General Meeting AGM Shareholders can sign up for electronic ShareGift andelectronic voting communications online by registering with If shareholders have a small number of The AGM of the Company will be held at Shareview, the internet based platform sharesand the dealing costs or the minimum 1.30pm on Tuesday 17 July 2018 at the provided by Equiniti.
In addition to fee make it uneconomical to sell them, it is Aberdeen Exhibition and Conference Centre, enablingshareholders to register to receive possible to donate these to ShareGift, a Exhibition Avenue, Bridge of Don, Aberdeen, communications by email, Shareview provides registered charity, who provides a free service AB23 8BL.
a facility for shareholders to manage their to enable you to dispose charitably of such shareholding online by allowing them to: shares.
More information on this service can The Notice of AGM Notice and Form of be found at www.
org or by calling Proxyare enclosed with this Annual Report and receive trading updates by email 44 0 20 7930 3737.
A ShareGift transfer Accounts, if you have chosen to receive hard view their shareholdings formcan also be obtained from Equiniti.
copy communications from the Company.
update their records, including change TheNotice can also be found on the Policy on discounts forshareholders ofaddress Companys website.
It is not theGroups policy to offer travel or other discounts to shareholders.
FirstGroup view payment and tax information Shareholders can submit proxies for the isfocused on overall returns which are of vote in advance of company 2018AGM electronically by logging on to benefitto all shareholders.
Electronic proxy appointments must be received by the Unsolicited telephone calls To find out more information about the Companys Registrar, Equiniti, no later andcorrespondence services offered by Shareview, please visit than1.30pm on Friday 13 July 2018 Shareholders should be wary of any www.
or notless than 48 hours, excluding unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a Shareholder enquiries non-business days, before the time fixed discount, or offers of free reports about the The Companys share register is maintained for anyadjourned meeting.
These are typically from overseas by Equiniti.
Shareholders with queries relating based brokers who target US or UK Website and shareholder to their shareholding should contact Equiniti shareholders, offering to sell them what often communications directly using one of the methods listed below.
turns out to be worthless or high risk shares.
A wide range of information on FirstGroup is These operations are commonly known as Registrar available at the Companys website including: boiler rooms and the brokers can be very Equiniti Limited financial information annual and half-yearly persistent and extremely persuasive.
Aspect House reports as well as trading updates Spencer Road Shareholders are advised to deal only with share price information current trading Lancing, West Sussex financial services firms that are authorised by details and historical charts BN99 6DA the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
You can Tel: 0371 384 2046 check if a firm is properly authorised by the shareholder information AGM results, or from overseas on Tel: 44 0 121 415 7050 FCA by visiting www.
If you details of the Companys advisers and Online: help.
co. uk from here, you do deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not frequently asked questions will be able to securely email Equiniti with be eligible to receive payment under the news releases current and historical.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme ifanything goes wrong.
For more detailed FirstGroup uses its website as its primary Telephone lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
information on how you can protect yourself means of communication with its shareholders from an investment scam, or to report a scam, provided that the shareholder has agreed or is If you receive more than one copy of the go to www.
uk consumers scams deemed to have agreed that communications Companys mailings this may indicate that report-scam or call 0800 111 6768. may be sent or supplied in that manner.
more than one account is held in your name Electronic communications allow shareholders Half-yearly results on the register.
This happens when the to access information instantly as well as The half-yearly results, normally announced to registration details of separate transactions helping FirstGroup to reduce its costs and the market in November, will continue to be differ slightly.
If you believe more than one itsimpact on the environment.
Shareholders available on the Companys website in the account exists in your name, please contact thathave consented or are deemed to have form of a press release and not issued to Equiniti to request that the accounts are consented to electronic communications shareholders in hard copy.
There is no charge for this service.
canrevoke their consent at any time by contacting Equiniti.
Equiniti also offer a postal dealing facility for buying and selling FirstGroup plc ordinary shares: please write to them at the address quoted or telephone 0371 384 2248.
Theyalso offer a telephone and internet dealing service which provides a simple andconvenient way of dealing in FirstGroup shares.
For telephone dealing call 0345 6037037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing logon to www.
co. uk dealing 174 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018
