Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Other Information Information for Shareholders Performance information dividend income received in their entire share portfolios is 2,000.
Information on the Companys performance is provided in the halfDividend income received in excess of this amount will be taxed at yearly and final reports which are sent to shareholders in August rates of 7.5% basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% higher rate taxpayers or and March respectively.
More up-to-date performance information, 38.1% additional rate taxpayers.
including the full list of investments in the portfolio as at the most recent month end, is available on the Internet at fandcit.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC website also provides a monthly update on the Companys geographic FCIT is a member of the AIC, which publishes a monthly statistical spread and largest holdings, along with comments from the Fund information service in respect of member companies.
also has details of ISA and other investment plans available.
For further details, please contact the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the Key Information Document website: www.
The Key Information Document relating to the Companys shares can be found on its website at fandcit.
This document has been Unclaimed dividends produced in accordance with the EUs PRIIPs Regulations.
The Company has engaged the services of Georgeson a subsidiary of Computershare to locate shareholders, or their beneficiaries, who Net asset value and share price have lost track of or are unaware of their investments.
The service The Companys net asset value is released daily, on the working day is provided at no cost to the Company: Georgeson retain 10% of following the calculation date, to the London and New Zealand Stock unclaimed dividends from the shareholder on completion of each Exchanges.
The current share price of FCIT is shown in the investment successful claim.
Alternatively, shareholders are given the option of trust section of the stock market page in most leading newspapers.
contacting the Registrar themselves, thereby incurring no charges.
Investors in New Zealand can obtain share prices from leading newspapers in that country.
Common reporting standards Tax legislation requires investment fund companies to provide UK capital gains tax CGT information annually to the local tax authority on the tax residencies An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
UK of a number of non-UK based certificated shareholders, and corporate resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 11,700 in entities who have purchased shares in investment trusts.
All new the tax year ended 5 April 2019 without incurring any tax liability.
shareholders, excluding those whose shares are held in CREST, who are entered onto the share register are sent a certification form for the A rate of CGT of 10% will apply where taxable income and gains do purposes of collecting this information.
not exceed the income tax higher rate threshold 34,500 in 201819 tax year.
A higher rate of 20% will apply to those whose income and For further information, please see HMRCs Quick Guide: Automatic gains exceed this figure.
Exchange of Information information for account holders gov.
Income tax The final dividend of 2.80 pence per share is payable on 8 May 2019.
Registered in England and Wales with Company Registration No.
12901 Since 6 April 2018 the annual tax-free allowance to UK residents on Report and Accounts 2018 | 93
