Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Other Information Alternative Performance Measures The Company uses the following Alternative Performance Measures APMs : Discount Premium the share price of an Investment Trust is derived from buyers and sellers trading their shares on the stockmarket.
This price is not identical to NAV per share of the underlying assets less liabilities of the Company.
If the share price is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
This usually indicates that there are more sellers of shares than buyers.
Shares trading at a price above NAV per share are said to be at a premium, in which case there tend to be more buyers than sellers.
The Boards discount policy is set out on page 17.
Net Asset Value NAV with Debt at Market Value the Companys debt debenture and loans is valued in the Balance Sheet on page 62 at amortised cost, which is materially equivalent to the repayment value of the debt on the assumption that it is held to maturity.
This is often referred to as Debt at Par.
The current replacement or market value of the debt, which assumes it is repaid and renegotiated under current market conditions, is often referred to as the Debt at Market Value or Debt at Fair value.
This Market Value is spelt out in notes 15 and 16 pages 75 and 76 on the Accounts.
The difference between market and par values of the debt is subtracted from or added to the Balance Sheet NAV on page 62 to derive the NAV with debt at market value.
The NAV with debt at market value at 31 December 2018 was 3,486,150,000 642.87p per share and the NAV with debt at par was 3,491,913,000 643.93p per share.
Ongoing Charges all operating costs expected to be regularly incurred and that are payable by the Company or suffered within underlying investee funds including Private Equity funds, expressed as a proportion of the average daily net asset values of the Company valued in accordance with accounting policies over the reporting year.
The costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives are excluded, as are interest costs, taxation, non-recurring costs and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Total Costs calculated in accordance with EU rules, comprise all operating costs actually incurred by the Company in the period, including transaction costs and interest on borrowings, together with costs suffered in the period within underlying investee funds and estimated implicit 1 costs of dealing, expressed as a proportion of the average daily NAV of the Company over the period.
Taxation expense and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares are excluded from the calculation.
The principal reasons for the excess of Total Costs over Ongoing Charges are as follows: Finance costs on loans, debenture and overdrafts 8.9m or 0.25% of net assets Transaction charges and implicit dealing costs 2.6m or 0.07% of average net assets Total costs for years prior to 2017 have not been calculated.
Total Expense Ratio TER an alternative measure of expenses to Ongoing Charges.
It comprises all operating costs incurred in the reporting period by the Company see note 4 page 69 and note 5 page 70 on the Accounts, calculated as a percentage of the average daily net asset values valued in accordance with accounting policies in that year see Ten Year Record.
Operating costs exclude costs suffered within investee funds, costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives, interest costs, taxation and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Total Return the return to shareholders calculated on a per share basis by adding dividends paid in the period to the increase or decrease in the Share Price or NAV with debt at market value in the period.
The dividends are assumed to have been re-invested in the form of shares or net assets, respectively, on the date on which the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Dividends paid and payable are set out in note 9 on the Accounts on page 72.
1 the cost differential between the mid-market price of the asset before the order is placed in the market and the price at which the deal is struck as defined by PRIIPs regulations issued by the European Union see Glossary of Terms, PRIIPs on page 99.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 95 Glossary of Terms AAF Report Report prepared in accordance with Audit and Assurance Faculty guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Administrator The administrator is State Street Bank and Trust Company to which BMO has outsourced trade processing, valuation and middle office tasks and systems.
AGM annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 2 May 2019.
AIC Association of Investment Companies, the trade body for closed-ended Investment Companies.
AIFMD the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive that requires investment vehicles in the European Union to appoint a Depositary and an Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
AIFM the Alternative Investment Fund Manager appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with the AIFMD is the Companys Manager, as defined below.
BMO Bank of Montreal, which is the parent company of BMO Asset Management Holdings PLC which in turn owns BMO GAM.
BMO GAM Together, the Manager and its sister company, BMO Asset Management Limited, which operate under the trading name BMO Global Asset Management.
BMO savings plans previously the F&C savings plans, these are now the BMO General Investment Account, BMO Junior Investment Account, BMO Investment Trust ISA, BMO Junior ISA and BMO Child Trust Fund operated by BMO Asset Management Limited, a company authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Benchmark the FTSE All-World Total Return Index is the benchmark against which the increase or decrease in the Companys net asset value is measured.
The Index averages the performance of a defined selection of companies listed in stock markets around the world and gives an indication of how those markets have performed in any period.
Divergence between the performance of the Company and the Index is to be expected as: the investments within this Index are not identical to those of the Company: the Index does not take account of operating costs: and the Companys strategy does not include replicating tracking this Index.
Closed-ended company a company, including an Investment Company, with a fixed issued ordinary share capital, the shares of which are traded on an exchange at a price not necessarily related to the net asset value of the company and which can only be issued or bought back by the company in certain circumstances.
CMA Competition and Markets Authority, an independent non-ministerial government department which promotes competition for the benefit of consumers.
Cum-dividend shares are classified as cum-dividend when the buyer of a security is entitled to receive a dividend that has been declared, but not paid.
Shares which are not cum-dividend are described as ex-dividend.
96 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Other Information Custodian The Custodian is JPMorgan Chase Bank.
The custodian is a financial institution responsible for safeguarding, worldwide, the listed securities and certain cash assets of the Company, as well as the income arising therefrom, through provision of custodial, settlement and associated services.
Depositary The Depositary is JPMorgan Europe Limited.
Under AIFMD rules the Company must appoint a Depositary whose duties in respect of investments, cash and similar assets include: safekeeping: verification of ownership and valuation: and cash monitoring.
Under the AIFMD rules, the Depositary has strict liability for the loss of the Companys financial assets in respect of which it has safe-keeping duties.
The Depositarys oversight duties will include but are not limited to oversight of share buybacks, dividend payments and adherence to investment limits.
Derivative a contract between two or more parties, the value of which fluctuates in accordance with the value of an underlying security.
The contract is usually short-term for less than one year.
Examples of derivatives are Put and Call Options, Swap contracts, Futures and Contracts for Difference.
A derivative can be an asset or a liability and is a form of gearing because the fluctuations in its value are usually greater than the fluctuations in the underlying securitys value.
Distributable Reserves Reserves distributable by way of dividend or for the purpose of buying back ordinary share capital see notes 2 c xi, 17, 18 and 19 on the Accounts.
Company Law requires that Share Capital and the Capital Redemption Reserve may not be distributed.
The Companys articles of association allow distributions by way of dividend out of Capital Reserves.
Dividend payments are currently made out of Revenue Reserve.
The cost of all share buybacks is deducted from Capital Reserves.
Dividend Dates Reference is made in announcements of dividends to three dates.
The record date is the date after which buyers of the shares will not be recorded on the register of shareholders as qualifying for the pending dividend payment.
The payment date is the date that dividends are credited to shareholders bank accounts.
The ex-dividend date is normally the business day prior to the record date most exdividend dates are on a Thursday.
EY The Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP.
FCIT F&C Investment Trust PLC or the Company and previously named Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC.
Fund Manager Paul Niven, an employee of the Manager with overall management responsibility for the total portfolio.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This includes UK Financial Reporting Standards FRS and International GAAP IFRS or International Financial Reporting Standards applicable in the European Union.
Gearing this is the ratio of the borrowings of the Company to its net assets.
Borrowings have a prior charge over the assets of a company, ranking before ordinary shareholders in their entitlement to capital and or income.
They include: preference shares: debentures: overdrafts and short and long-term loans from banks: and derivative contracts.
If the Company has cash assets, these may be assumed either to net off against borrowings, giving a net or effective gearing percentage, or to be used to buy investments, giving a gross or fully invested gearing figure.
Where cash assets exceed borrowings, the Company is described as having net cash.
The Companys maximum permitted level of gearing is set by the Board and is described within the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
General Data Protection Regulation GDPR GDPR is a regulation that requires businesses to protect the personal data and privacy of EU citizens for transactions that occur within EU member states.
Investment Company Section 833 UK Company Law allows an Investment Company to make dividend distributions out of realised distributable reserves, even in circumstances where it has made Capital losses in any year, provided the Companys assets remaining after payment of the dividend exceed 150% of the liabilities.
An Investment Company is defined as investing its funds in shares, land or other assets with the aim of spreading investment risk.
Investment portfolios sometimes referred to as strategies, the separate regional, global and Private Equity portfolios that together make up the total investment portfolio of the Company.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 97 Investment Trust taxation status Section 1158 UK Corporation Tax law allows an Investment Company referred to in Tax law as an Investment Trust to be exempted from tax on its profits realised on investment transactions, provided it complies with certain rules.
These are similar to Section 833 above but further require that the Company must be listed on a regulated stock exchange and that it cannot retain more than 15% of income received.
The Directors Report contains confirmation of the Companys compliance with this law and its consequent exemption from taxation on capital gains.
ISAE Report Report prepared in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements.
Leverage as defined under AIFMD rules, leverage is any method by which the exposure of an AIF being an investment vehicle under the AIFMD is increased through borrowing of cash or securities or leverage embedded in derivative positions.
Leverage is broadly equivalent to gearing, but is expressed as a ratio between the assets excluding borrowings and the net assets after taking account of borrowings.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after deduction of cash balances, without taking account of any hedging or netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
Manager AIFM BMO Investment Business Limited, a subsidiary of BMO Asset Management Holdings PLC, which in turn is wholly owned by Bank of Montreal BMO.
Its responsibilities and fee are set out in the Business Model, Report of the Management Engagement Committee and note 4 on the accounts.
Market benchmark the Companys existing benchmark, the FTSE All-World Total Return Index, from January 2013 and the Companys previous benchmark which was a composite of 40% FTSE All-Share Total Return 60% FTSE WI World ex UK Total Return prior to that date.
Market capitalisation the stockmarket quoted price of the Companys shares, multiplied by the number of shares in issue.
If the Companys shares trade at a discount to NAV, the market capitalisation will be lower than the NAV.
Net asset value NAV the assets less liabilities of the Company, as set out in the Balance Sheet, all valued in accordance with the Companys Accounting Policies see note 2 on the Accounts and UK Accounting Standards.
The Net Assets correspond to Total Shareholders Funds, which comprise the capital account, capital redemption reserve and capital and revenue reserves.
Non-executive Director a Director who has a contract for services, rather than a contract of employment, with the Company.
The Company does not have any executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors remuneration is described in detail in the Remuneration Report.
The duties of the Directors, who govern the Company through the auspices of a Board and Committees of the Board, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Non-Financial Information Statement NFIS Under sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006 certain large companies within scope are subject to an additional layer of narrative reporting originally introduced under EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive EU 2014 95 and implemented by amending the strategic report requirements in the Companies Act 2006 by the Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Non-Financial Reporting Regulations 2016.
The regulations require those companies to disclose to the extent necessary an understanding of the companys development, performance, position and impact of its activity, information relating to environmental, employee, social, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters.
Although F&C Investment Trust PLC does not fall within the scope of these requirements, the Board has opted to do so and has integrated the disclosures into the Strategic Report.
F&C Investment Trust PLCs NonFinancial Reporting disclosures that have been made in relation to the requirements are referenced in the following table to indicate in which part of the Strategic Report they appear.
Non-financial information Section Page Business model Strategic report and business model 8 Policies Principal policies 16 Principal Risks Principal risks and future prospects 20 Key performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators 19 98 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Other Information Open-ended Fund a collective investment scheme which issues shares or units directly to investors, and redeems directly from investors, at a price that is linked to the net asset value of the fund.
Peer group Investment Trusts and Funds investing in Global markets on behalf of investors, in competition with the Company and included within either the AIC Global Sector or the Investment Association IA Global Sector in the UK.
PRIIPs Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products regulations that require generic pre-sale disclosure of investment product costs, risks and indicative future return scenarios.
The Companys ordinary shares are defined as a product for the purposes of the regulations.
Costs as calculated under PRIIPs are explained within Alternative Performance Measures on page 95, under Total Costs.
Private Equity an asset consisting of shares and debt in operating companies that are not publicly traded on a stock exchange.
The holdings in such companies may be collected in a Fund which operates as a limited partnership, with Partners contributing capital to the Fund over a period of years and receiving proportional repayments of capital and income as and when the investments are sold.
Section 172 1 Section 172 1 of the Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company to act in the way he considers, in good faith, to be most likely to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole, and in doing so have regard to matters specified in that section.
The directors are required to report on this in the Strategic Report section of the Report and Accounts each year.
Sustainable Development Goals SDGs The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015, provides a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future.
At its heart are the 17 goals, which are an urgent call for action by all countries - developed and developing - in a global partnership.
They recognise that ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand-in-hand with strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth all the while tackling climate change and working to preserve our oceans and forests.
SSAE Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
SORP Statement of Recommended Practice.
The accounts of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Investment Trust SORP, issued by the AIC, as described in note 2 on the Accounts.
Special Dividends dividends received from investee companies which have been paid out of capital reconstructions or reorganisations of the investees are sometimes referred to as Special Dividends and may be allocated to Capital Reserves in accordance with the Companys accounting policies and the SORP.
Dividends which are unusually large in terms of the investee companies annual earnings or normal payment pattern are also sometimes referred to as special but are treated as revenue in nature unless the evidence suggests otherwise.
Treasury shares ordinary shares previously issued by the Company that have been bought back from shareholders on the open market and kept in the Companys own treasury.
Such shares may, at a later date, be re-issued for sale on the open market or cancelled if demand is insufficient.
Treasury shares carry no rights to dividends and have no voting rights and hence are not included within calculations of earnings per share or net asset value per share.
UK Code of Corporate Governance UK Code the standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders that all companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange are required to report on in their annual report and accounts.
It has been revised with effect from 1 January 2019.
The United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI An international network of investors working together with the goal of understanding the implications of sustainability for investors and support signatories to incorporate these issues into their investment decision-making and ownership practices.
In implementing the Principles, signatories contribute to the development of a more sustainable global financial system.
The Principles offer a menu of possible actions for incorporating environmental, social and corporate governance issues into investment practices across asset classes.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 99 Warning to Shareholders Beware of Share Fraud.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell to you shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy your shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment following which the proceeds are never received.
If you receive unsolicited investment advice or requests: Check the Financial Services Register from fca.
uk to see if the person or firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA Call the Financial Conduct Authority FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at fca.
uk scams Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme Think about getting independent financial and professional advice If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA by using the share fraud reporting form at fca.
uk scams where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
100 | F&C Investment Trust PLC F&C Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Registered office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY 020 7628 8000 Fax: 020 7628 8188 fandcit.
com Registrars: C omputershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ 0800 923 1506 Fax: 0870 703 6143 computershare.
co. uk 2019 BMO Global Asset Management.
BMO Global Asset Management is a trading name of BMO Asset Management Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
