Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and Accounts in Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also accordance with applicable law and regulations.
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Statement of Corporate Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting The Report and Accounts is published on the fandcit.
com website, Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard which is maintained by BMO GAM.
The Directors are responsible applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
The work undertaken by the auditors does not involve consideration of Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the Directors are required to: the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Each of the Directors listed on pages 30 and 31 confirm to the best of and prudent: their knowledge that: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, explained in the financial statements respectively: and liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in performance of the business and the position of the Company, business.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above in the opinion of the Directors the annual report and requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Further details can financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and be found in notes 2 and 24 on the Accounts.
understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting business model and strategy.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the On behalf of the Board financial statements comply with the Act.
They are also responsible Simon Fraser for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking Chairman reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 11 March 2019 irregularities.
