How to invest One of the most convenient ways to invest in F&C Investment Trust PLC is through one of the savings plans run by BMO.
BMO Investment Trust ISA Charges You can use your ISA allowance to make an annual taxAnnual management charges and other charges apply according to the type of plan.
efficient investment of up to 20,000 for the 2019 20 tax year with a lump sum from 500 or regular savings from 50 a month per Trust.
You can also transfer any existing Annual account charge ISAs to us whilst maintaining the tax benefits.
ISA: 60 VAT GIA: 40 VAT BMO Junior ISA JISA JISA JIA CTF: 25 VAT You can invest up to 4,368 for the tax year 2019 20 from You can pay the annual charge from your account, or by direct debit in addition to 500 lump sum or 30 a month per Trust, or a combination any annual subscription limits of both.
Please note, if your child already has a Child Trust Fund CTF, then you cannot open a separate JISA, however Dealing charges you can transfer the existing CTF held either with BMO or ISA: 0.2% another provider to a BMO JISA.
GIA JIA JISA: postal instructions 12, online instructions 8 per Trust.
Dealing charges apply when shares are bought or sold but not on the reinvestment BMO Child Trust Fund CTF of dividends or the investment of monthly direct debits for the GIA, JIA and JISA.
If your child has a CTF you can invest up to 4,368 for the There are no dealing charges on a CTF but a switching charge of 25 applies if more 2019 20 tax year, from 100 lump sum or 25 a month than 2 switches are carried out in one year.
per Trust, or a combination of both.
You can also transfer a Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies on the purchase of shares where CTF from another provider to a BMO CTF.
CTF has been replaced by the JISA and is only available to There may be additional charges made if you transfer a plan to another provider or investors who already hold a CTF.
transfer the shares from your plan.
The value of investments can go down as well as up and you may not get back your BMO General Investment Account GIA original investment.
Tax benefits depend on your individual circumstances and tax This is a flexible way to invest in our range of Investment allowances and rules may change.
Please ensure you have read the full Terms and Trusts.
There are no maximum contributions, and Conditions, Privacy Policy and relevant Key Features documents before investing.
investments can be made from 500 lump sum or 50 a For regulatory purposes, please ensure you have read the Pre-sales cost disclosures month per Trust.
You can also make additional lump sum related to the product you are applying for, and the relevant Key Information top-ups at any time from 250 per Trust.
Documents KIDs for the investment trusts you are wanting to invest into.
BMO Junior Investment Account JIA HOW TO INVEST This is a flexible way to save for a child in our range of Investment Trusts.
There are no maximum contributions, To open a new BMO plan, apply online at bmogam.
com apply and the plan can easily be set up under bare trust where Note, this is not available if you are transferring an existing plan with another the child is noted as the beneficial owner or kept in your provider to BMO, or if you are applying for a new plan in more than one name.
name if you wish to retain control over the investment.
Investments can be made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a month per Trust.
You can also make additional lump sum New Customers: Existing Plan Holders: top-ups at any time from 100 per Trust.
9:00am 5:00pm, weekdays The CTF and JISA accounts are opened in the childs name and they have access to the money at age 18.
com Calls may be recorded or monitored for training and quality purposes.
By post: BMO Administration Centre PO Box 11114 Chelmsford CM99 2DG You can also invest in the trust through online dealing platforms for private investors BMO Asset Management Limited that offer share dealing and ISAs.
Companies include: Alliance Trust Savings, BMO Asset Management Limited 2019.
Issued and approved by BMO Asset Halifax, Hargreaves Lansdown, HSBC, Interactive Investor, LLoyds Bank, Management Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Registered Office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY.
Registered in England & Wales No 517895.
