Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and fortieth Annual General Special Resolutions: Meeting of the Company will be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as special Threadneedle Street, London EC2 on Thursday 2 May 2019 at 12 noon for the resolutions: following purposes: 15.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 14 above and in substitution for Ordinary Resolutions: any existing authority, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as ordinary authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors be and they are hereby resolutions: authorised, pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and accounts for the year the Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of ended 31 December 2018. the Act either pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 14 for cash 2.
To approve the Directors annual report on remuneration excluding or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 561 1 of the Act did not the Directors remuneration policy.
apply to any such allotment or transfer, provided this authority shall be 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 2.8 limited to: pence per ordinary share.
To re-elect Sarah Arkle as a Director.
a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity 5.
To re-elect Sir Roger Bone as a Director.
To re-elect Francesca Ecsery as a Director.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be 7.
To re-elect Simon Fraser as a Director.
practicable to their existing holdings: and 8.
To re-elect Jeffrey Hewitt as a Director.
ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights 9.
To re-elect Beatrice Hollond as a Director.
of those securities or as the Directors otherwise consider 10.
To re-elect Edward Knapp as a Director.
To re-elect Nicholas Moakes as a Director.
and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make 12.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company.
any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal 13.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of with any treasury shares, fractional entitlements or securities represented the auditors.
by depositary receipts, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems 14.
in, or under the laws of, any territory or the requirements of any regulatory THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, but without prejudice to the body or stock exchange or any other matter: and exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance b the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a of this Resolution with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to exercise all 15 of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant 6,700,000, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution together being relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount or on 30 June 2020 whichever is the earlier, unless extended by the of 6,700,000 during the period commencing on the date of the passing Company in a general meeting the relevant period save that the of this resolution and expiring at the conclusion of the annual general Company may at any time prior to the expiry of this authority make meeting of the Company in 2020 or 30 June 2020 whichever is earlier, offers or enter into agreements which would or might require equity unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in a general securities to be allotted or transferred after the expiry of the relevant meeting the relevant period save that the Company may, at any time period and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot or prior to the expiry of this authority, make offers or enter into agreements transfer equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of the relevant period and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
88 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Lombard Street Notice of Meeting 16.
Share buyback authority d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, but without prejudice to the annual general meeting of the Company after passing of this resolution exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be or on 30 June 2020 whichever is earlier unless such authority is varied, and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in revoked or renewed prior to such time by the Company in general accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make meeting by special resolution: and market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary e the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such authority enter shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time into a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under such to time determine, provided that: authority which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and the Company may purchase a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts as if the purchased shall be 81,270,000 or, if less, 14.99% of the number of authority conferred hereby had not expired.
ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares as at the date of the passing of this resolution: By Order of the Board Registered office: BMO Investment Exchange House b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Business Limited Primrose Street ordinary share shall be 25p: Secretary London EC2A 2NY 11 March 2019 c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Registered number: 12901 ordinary share is the higher of: i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle Notes: market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the 1.
A member is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business any of the members rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the share is contracted to be purchased, and meeting for the members vote to be counted.
If a member appoints ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last more than one proxy to attend the meeting, each proxy must be independent trade for an ordinary share and the highest appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares current independent bid for an ordinary share on the trading held by that member.
venues where the purchase is carried out: 2.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in Meeting Location the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has a Liverpool notifiable obligation under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Street Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
As a result, any person holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or Bank of all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a notification England obligation under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules Merchant Taylors Hall need not make a separate notification to the Company and the FCA.
Bank Leadenhall Steet Cornhill Threadneedles Lloyds 3.
Any such person holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Mansion Hotel of London House Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such person complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Fenchurch St Monument Station Report and Accounts 2018 | 89 Threadneedle Street King William Street Old Broad Street Bishopsgate 4.
A Form of Proxy is provided with this notice for members.
If a member or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting.
If a wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so requires additional Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not proxy forms, the member should contact Computershare Investor wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an agreement Services PLC on 0800 923 1506.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy and to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or at the meeting.
a notarially certified copy of such authority must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at the Companys 8.
Nominated Persons should also remember that their main point of registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, contact in terms of their investment in the Company remains the Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, not less than 48 hours before member who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy information the time of the holding of the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
rights or, perhaps, the custodian or broker who administers the Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not preclude members investment on their behalf.
Nominated Persons should continue to from attending and voting at the meeting should they wish to do contact that member, custodian or broker and not the Company so.
Amended instructions must also be received by the Companys regarding any changes or queries relating to the Nominated registrars by the deadline for receipt of Forms of Proxy.
Persons personal details and interest in the Company including any administrative matter.
The only exception to this is where the 5.
Alternatively, members may register the appointment of a Company expressly requests a response from a Nominated Person.
proxy for the meeting electronically, by accessing the website eproxyappointment.
com where full instructions for the procedure 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated Securities are given.
The Control Number, Shareholder Reference and PIN as Regulations 2001 as amended and for the purposes of section 360B printed on the Form of Proxy will be required in order to use the of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company has specified electronic proxy appointment system.
This website is operated by that only those members registered on the register of members of Computershare Investor Services PLC.
The proxy appointment and the Company at close of business on 30 April 2019 the Specified any power of attorney or other authority under which the proxy Time or, if the meeting is adjourned to a time more than 48 hours appointment is made must be received by Computershare Investor after the Specified Time, by close of business on the day which is two Services PLC not less than 48 hours before the time for holding days prior to the time of the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned registered in their name at that time.
If the meeting is adjourned to meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
If you a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, that time want to appoint more than one proxy electronically please contact will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of Computershare Investor Services PLC on 0800 923 1506. members to attend and vote and for the purposes of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
Investors holding shares in the Company through the BMO Investment Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall Trust ISA, Junior ISA, Child Trust Fund, General Investment Account be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and and or Junior Investment Account should ensure that forms of vote at the meeting.
direction are returned to Computershare Investor Services PLC not later than 12 noon on 25 April 2019.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the be submitted electronically at eproxyappointment.
com by entering CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting the Control Number, Shareholder Reference Number and PIN as and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in printed on the form of direction.
Voting directions must be submitted the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored electronically no later than 12 noon on 25 April 2019. members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting 7.
Any person receiving a copy of this notice as a person nominated service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the their behalf.
Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person should note that the provisions in notes 1, 4 and 5 above concerning the appointment 11.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST of a proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in place of a member service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy do not apply to a Nominated Person as only shareholders have the Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with right to appoint a proxy.
However, a Nominated Person may have Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the a right under an agreement between the Nominated Person and information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST the member by whom he or she was nominated to be appointed, Manual available via euroclear.
The message, regardless 90 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Notice of Meeting of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an 16.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a issuers agent ID number 3RA50 by the latest time s for receipt of statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward proxy appointments specified in notes 4 and 5 above.
For this purpose, the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the 12.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland the meeting.
However, members should note that no answer need be Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any given in the following circumstances: particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It a if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the the meeting or would involve a disclosure of confidential CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or information: has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall b if the answer has already been given on a website in the be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of form of an answer to a question: or the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting c if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings euroclear.
As at 6 March 2019, being the last practicable date prior to the printing of this notice, the Companys issued capital less the shares held 13.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the in Treasury consisted of 543,680,712 ordinary shares of 25 pence circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Securities Regulations 2001 as amended.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more 19.
This notice, together with information about the total number of corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its shares in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to powers as a member provided that, if it is appointing more than one exercise voting rights at the meeting as at 6 March 2019 being the last corporate representative, it does not do so in relation to the same practicable date prior to the printing of this notice and, if applicable, shares.
any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this 15.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold notice, will be available at fandcit.
requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter 20.
Any electronic address provided either in this notice or in any relating to: related documents including the Form of Proxy may not be used to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and expressly stated.
the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or 21.
Copies of the letters of appointment between the Company and its b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing Directors: a copy of the articles of association of the Company: the to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and register of Directors holdings: and a deed poll relating to Directors reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
indemnities will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Report and Accounts 2018 | 91 Sundays and Bank Holidays excluded until the date of the meeting and also on the date and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the meeting to the conclusion thereof.
No Director has a service agreement with the Company.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: a t o give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting, and or b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless: a in the case o f a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the companys constitution or otherwise, b it is fide famatory of any person or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 20 March 2019, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
