Mineral reserves are reported at metal equivalent cut-off grades based on metal price assumptions, variable metallurgical recovery assumptions variable metallurgical recoveries as a function of grade and relative metal distribution, mining costs, processing costs, general and administrative G&A costs, sustaining capital costs, and variable NSR factors NSR factors include smelting and transportation costs.
Each AgEq cut-off is calculated by dividing the appropriate cost by the corresponding Ag net value factor which includes prices, recoveries, and payabilities.
2 Reserves include planned dilution to a minimum mining width and to minable outlines.
Additionally, based on mining method, floor dilution is included and appropriate mining recovery factors are applied.
3 The cut-off grades for the Cinega reserve vary between 171 and 359 g t AgEq.
4 Reserves have no additional dilution added to that inherent in the Selective Mining Unit SMU of 15m x 15m x 8m.
Reserves are converted from resources through the process of pit optimisation, pit design, production schedule and supported by a Minera Penmont cash flow model.
5 Mega Centauro mineral reserves are reported at varied cut-offs dependent on material types and grade.
Oxide material above 0.25 g t Au reports to the heap leach, transitional and sulfide material above 0.30 g t Au reports to the heap leach, oxide material above 1.05 g t Au reports to the mill, transitional and sulfide material above 0.54 g t Au reports to the mill.
6 The Soledad Dipolos mine has been subject to legal action regarding surface access.
SRK has been provided with documents indicating a reasonable chance that these actions will be settled in favour of the mine.
Metal price assumptions considered for the calculation of metal equivalent grades are: Gold US$ oz 1,250.00, Silver US$ oz 17.00, Lead US$ lb 0.90 and Zinc US$ lb 1.10 The reserves are valid as of 31 December 2018.
All topography is valid as of 31 October 2018.
The ore reserves were estimated by Fresnillo.
Fernando Rodrigues, BS Mining, MBA, MMSAQP #01405, MAusIMM #304726 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the open pit reserve and underground reserve estimates.
