222 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
CORPORATE INFORMATION Fresnillo plc the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 5.
The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes with tax residency in Mexico City.
For further information see note 4.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75 percent of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
The country of incorporation of Peoles is Mexico.
Copies ofPeoles accounts can be obtained from www.
mx The primary activity of the Company is as a holding company for the Fresnillo Group of companies.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on25 February 2019.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES A BASIS OF PREPARATION AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain derivative financial instruments and equity securities which have been measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all monetary amounts are rounded to thenearest thousand US$000 except when otherwise indicated.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
B CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the separate financial statements for the year ended 31December 2017, except for the following: On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted IFRS 9, Financial Instruments which replaced IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement using the modified retrospective approach, hence, the Company does not restate prior periods.
Differences between previous carrying amounts using accounting policies as disclosed in the 2017 ARA and those determined under IFRS 9 at the date of initial application have been included in opening retained earnings.
IFRS 9 provides a revised model for classification and measurement of financial instruments: a single, forward-looking expected loss impairment model: and changes to hedge accounting.
The classification and measurement model for financial assets in IFRS 9 is based on the Companys business models for managing its financial assets and whether the contractual cash flows represent solely payments for principal and interest.
Generally, equity instruments are classified and measured as fair value through profit or loss FVPL.
However, in respect of equity instruments that the Company intends to hold for the foreseeable future, IFRS 9 permits the Company to irrevocably elect upon initial recognition or transition to classify those assets as fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
Changes in the fair value of equity instruments elected to be classified as FVOCI are not reclassified to profit or loss in future periods.
Most of the requirements in IAS 39 for classification and measurement of financial liabilities were carried forward in IFRS 9.
LONG-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS The adoption of IFRS 9 resulted in certain changes to the classification of financial assets previously classified as available-for-sale financial assets AFS.
The Company designated its investments in quoted equity investments as FVOCI and classified investments in funds as FVPL: in thousands of US dollars 1 January 2018 31 December 2017 Available-for-sale financial assets 144,856 Debt instruments at fair value through profit or loss 19,877 Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 124,979 144,856 144,856 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 223 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Upon transition, the balance in the AFS reserve relating to investments in funds was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income OCI to retained earnings in the amount of US$46.9 million.
In addition, the amounts previously recognised in retained earnings related to historical impairment of AFS that are now classified as FVOCI have been reclassified to the FVOCI reserve in the amount of US$6.0 million.
IMPAIRMENT The adoption of the new expected credit loss impairment model under IFRS 9, as opposed to an incurred credit loss model under IAS 39, had a negligible impact on the carrying amounts of the Companys financial assets on the transition date given the probability of default determined for its subsidiaries, see note 2 f. At 1 January 2018 the expected credit loss was negligible.
REVENUE RECOGNITION On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers which supersedes IAS 18, Revenue.
IFRS 15 establishes a single five-step model framework for determining the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer.
IFRS 15 requires entities to recognise revenue when control of goods or services transfers to the customer whereas the previous standard, IAS 18, required entities to recognise revenue when the risks and rewards of the goods or services transfer to the customer.
The Company concluded there is no change in the timing of revenue recognition of the trademark royalties under IFRS 15 compared to the previous standard as the point of transfer of risks and rewards of goods and services and transfer of control occur at the same time.
Therefore, no adjustment was required to the Companys financial statements.
Other than the amendment mentioned above, there were no significant new standards that the Company was required to adopt effective from 1 January 2018.
STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS AND AMENDMENTS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Companys financial statements are disclosed below.
The Company intends to adopt these standards, as applicable to the Companys financial statements, when they become effective, except where indicated.
IFRS 16 LEASES IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value.
A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier application is permitted.
As at 31 December 2018 the Company has no lease agreements as a lessor or as a lessee, thus no impact is expected on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Company.
IFRIC 23 UNCERTAINTY OVER INCOME TAX TREATMENTS This Interpretation clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
The interpretation is to be applied to the determination of taxable profit tax loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
Application of tax law can be complex and requires judgement to assess risk and estimate outcomes where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain.
The Company evaluated potential uncertain tax positions under the requirements of the Interpretation and has not identified any impact on the Companys financial statements.
IFRIC 23 is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The IASB has issued other amendments to standards, including those resulting from improvements to IFRSs that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Company.
The Company has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective.
C SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The preparation of the Companys financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is in the accounting policies and the notes to the financial statements.
224 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED JUDGEMENTS An area of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements is: Contingencies note 12 : By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS A significant area of estimation uncertainty made by management in preparing the financial information statements include: Impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment of investments in subsidiaries notes 2 e and 5 : The Company assesses investments in subsidiaries annually to determine whether any indication of impairment exists.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs ofdisposal FVLCD and the value in use.
Due to the nature of the subsidiaries, the assessment of the recoverable amount is generally determined based on the net present value of future cash flows related to the subsidiaries requiring the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, reserves and resources and the associate production profiles, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
These cash flows are discounted using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
The determination of that rate requires certain judgements.
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, the Company assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of that investment, requiring similar estimates and assumptions as those for determining an impairment charge.
At 31 December 2018 the Company recognised an impairment loss of US$725.9 million 2017: reversal of impairment of US$102.8 million to recognised a cumulative impairment relating to subsidiaries of US$1,162.3 million 2017: US$436.4 million.
D FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The Companys financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company.
The functional currency for the Company is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date ofthe transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in aforeign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair valued is determined.
E INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Subsidiaries are entities which the Company controls due to it being exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at acquisition cost less any provision for impairment.
Impairment charges and reversals, up to the value of the merger reserve, are reclassified from retained earnings to the merger reserve.
When the Company increases its capital investment in or where there is a return of share capital from its subsidiaries, such movements are recognised as an addition to, or return of the original cost recognised in investment in subsidiaries.
Dividends are recognised as other income in the statement of profit or loss when the right of payment has been established.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use.
The Company usually determines fair value based on the net present value of the future cash flows related to its subsidiaries.
If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount.
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
An impairment loss is reversed to profit or loss to the extent that the increased carrying value of the investment in subsidiary does not exceed that that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 225 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES From 1 January 2018, the Company classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories: those to be measured at amortised cost.
those to be measured subsequently at fair value through OCI, and.
those to be measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss.
The classification depends on the Companys business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or OCI.
For investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading, this will depend on whether the group has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
The Company reclassifies debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes.
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade-date, the date on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss FVPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss.
Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest.
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Companys business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset.
There are three measurement categories into which the Company classifies its debt instruments: AMORTISED COST Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost.
Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in other gains losses together with foreign exchange gains and losses.
Impairment losses are presented as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss.
The Companys financial assets at amortised cost include receivables from loans granted to related parties.
FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI.
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in profit or loss.
When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss and recognised in other gains losses.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other gains losses and impairment expenses are presented as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss.
At transition to IFRS 9, the Company had certain financial assets that were accounted for as debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income: however, at the reporting date, no such assets existed.
EQUITY INSTRUMENTS DESIGNATED AS FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Upon initial recognition, the Company can elect to classify irrevocably its equity investments as equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI when they meet the definition of equity under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and are not held for trading.
The classification is determined on an  basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to profit or loss.
Dividends are recognised as other income in the statement of profit or loss when the right of payment has been established, except when the Company benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI.
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are not subject to impairment assessment.
The Company elected to classify irrevocably its listed equity investments under this category.
226 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL.
A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVPL is recognised in profit or loss and presented net within other gains losses in the period in which it arises.
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at FVPL are recognised in other gains losses in the statement of profit or loss asapplicable.
The Companys derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
fide-RECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS From 1 January 2018, the Company assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses associated with its debt instruments carried at amortised cost and FVOCI.
The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
For loans granted to subsidiaries the Company evaluate the expecting credit loss using a one year probability of default corresponding to the mining industry determined by a specialised financial institution and considering an appropriate severity based on the cost of capital of the Group.
For other trade receivables, the Company applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
G CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest atthe respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
H SHARE CAPITAL Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue.
The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any excess is recorded in the share premium account, including the costs that were incurred with the share issue.
I REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes.
TRADEMARK ROYALTIES Trademark royalty income is recognised only at the time when it is probable that the amounts related to certain rights will be received.
J INCOME TAX CURRENT INCOME TAX Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to thetaxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
DEFERRED INCOME TAX Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets andliabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 227 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where thetiming of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in theforeseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to theextent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxationauthority.
K DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING The Company enters into derivative contracts in order to manage certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodity prices which impact the financial and business transactions of its subsidiaries.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which aderivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value isnegative.
In the Groups consolidated financial statements certain of these derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Companys stand-alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges.
Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly totheincome statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type ofderivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
228 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED L FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT The Company measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 16 and 17.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability: or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Company.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 16.
M DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Mexican Income Tax Law establishes a 10% withholding on earnings from 2014 and thereafter, for dividends paid to foreign residents and Mexican individuals.
Dividends paid are not subject to income tax if paid from the Net Tax Profit Account CUFIN.
Dividends paid that exceed CUFIN are subject to an income tax payable at a rate of 30%.
The tax is payable by the Company and may be credited against the normal income tax payable by the Company in the year in which the dividends are paid or in the following two years.
Dividends paid from earnings previously taxed are not subject to any withholding or additional tax payment.
SEGMENT REPORTING Segmental information is not presented in the Companys stand-alone financial statements as this is presented in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 229 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
INCOME TAX A INCOME TAX REPORTED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Deferred income tax credit charge related to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income: Changes in the fair value of equity investments at FVOCI note 2 b 20,328 Change in fair value on available-for-sale financial assets note 2 b 2,642 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets taken to income during the year 11 Income expense tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 20,328 2,653 B THE MOVEMENTS IN THE DEFERRED INCOME TAX LIABILITY ARE AS FOLLOWS: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net asset 10,169 9,691 Expense income statement credit 7,485 3,131 Net credit charge related to items directly charged to other comprehensive income note 2 b 20,328 2,653 Closing net asset 23,012 10,169 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities.
The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset as at 31 December considering the nature of the temporary differences are asfollows: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Prepayments and other assets 579 614 Accrual for expected credit losses on loans granted to subsidiaries 374 Derivative financial instruments 1,098 5,603 Losses carried forward 18,608 21,998 Equity instruments at FVOCI 3,511 Available-for-sale financial assets 16,818 Net deferred tax asset 23,012 10,169 C UNRECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ON INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The Company has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,430 million 2017: US$1,723 million.
D CORPORATE INCOME TAX IMPUESTO SOBRE LA RENTA OR ISR The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes.
The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%.
230 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 7,094,131 6,957,858 Impairment 725,886 Reversal of impairment 102,789 Additions 46,892 33,484 Closing balance 6,415,137 7,094,131 During 2018, due to gold and silver prices decreasing the Company made an impairment assessment to determine whether the carrying value of each of its subsidiaries was recoverable as at 31 December 2018.
As a result, a cumulative impairment loss of US$1,162.3 million is recognised with respect to certain of the Companys investment in subsidiaries 2017: US$436.4 million.
The recoverable amount was estimated based on the Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal FVLCD model 2017: FVLCD.
The following tables provide relevant information in respect of each impaired subsidiary: Year ended 31 December 2018 Current year Cumulative Recoverable Impairment loss Impairment amount US$thousand US$thousand US$ thousands Discount rate Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. 578,642 578,642 3,982,547 Post-tax 5.77% Minera Mexicana la Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. 140,358 501,149 496,394 Post-tax 5.49% Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. 6,886 82,549 139,784 Post-tax 5.38% 725,886 1,162,340 In determining FVLCD it is necessary to make a series of assumptions to estimate future cash flows including reserves and resources volumes and related production profile, price assumptions, cost estimates and discount rate.
Accordingly, the fair value is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The price assumptions used to calculate FVLCD are determined with reference analysts consensus of long term prices.
As at 31 December 2018, the Company used long-term price assumptions of US$1,310 ounce and US$19.25 ounce for gold and silver, respectively.
Year ended 31 December 2017 Current year Impairment Cumulative Recoverable reversal Impairment amount US$thousand US$thousand US$ thousands Discount rate Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. 94,747 4,440,269 Post-tax 5.13% Minera Mexicana la Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. 360,791 571,439 Post-tax 5.13% Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. 8,042 75,663 146,670 Post-tax 5.02% 102,789 436,454 In determining FVLCD it is necessary to make a series of assumptions to estimate future cash flows including reserves and resources volumes and related production profile, price assumptions, cost estimates and discount rate.
The price assumptions used to calculate FVLCD are determined with reference analysts consensus of long-term prices.
As at 31 December 2017, the Company used price assumptions of US$1,300 ounce and US$19 ounce for gold and silver, respectively.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS As at 31 December 2018 management has performed a sensitivity analysis for those subsidiaries where cumulative impairment may be affected by a reasonably possible change in silver and gold prices.
Management has considered a decrease in silver and gold of 15% and 10% respectively 2017: 10% silver and gold.
The sensitivity resulted in an additional impairment on Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. of US$719.9 million 2017: US$448.2 million, Minera Mexicana la Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. US$102.1 million 2017: US$110.6 million and Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. US$134.5 million 2017: US$49.5 million.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 231 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The subsidiaries in which investments are directly held as at 31 December 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Equity interest % Year ended 31 December Country of Legal company Principal activity incorporation 2018 2017 3 Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead silver and zinc Mxico 100 100 concentrates 1 3 Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Production of dor bars gold silver Mxico 56 56 3 Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates and Mxico 100 100 silver precipitates 3 Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates Mxico 100 100 3 Desarrollos Mineros Canelas, S. A. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mxico 100 100 1 3 Desarrollos Mineros Fresne, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mxico 56 56 3 Desarrollos Mineros el Aguila, S. A. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mxico 100 100 3 Metalrgica Reyna, S. A. fide C. V. Extraction and sale of mineral ore Mxico 100 100 3 Equipos Mineros Nazas, S. A. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mxico 100 100 1 3 Proveedora fide Equipos Fresne, S fide R. L. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mxico 56 56 3 Equipos Mineros la Hacienda, S. A. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mxico 100 100 3 Proveedora fide Equipos Jerez, S. A. fide C. V. Leasing of mining equipment Mxico 100 100 3 Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. Mining project Mxico 56 56 3 Comercializadora fide Metales Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Holds rights over silver production from Mxico 100 100 Peoles polymetallic Sabinas mine through the Silverstream contract 3 Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration services Mxico 100 100 3 Exploraciones y Desarrollos Mineros Coneto, S. A. P. I. fide C. V. Exploration services Mxico 55 55 3 Minera El Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mining equipment leasing Mxico 100 100 3 Compaa Minera Las Torres, S. A. fide C. V. Mine project Mxico 100 100 3 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Administrative services Mxico 100 100 3 Operaciones Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Administrative services Mxico 100 100 3 Servicios fide Exploracin Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Administrative services Mxico 100 100 4 Fresnillo Management Services, Ltd Administrative services UK 100 100 5 Fresbal Investments, Ltd Holding company for mining Investments Canada 100 100 6 Fresnillo Per, S. A. C. Exploration services Peru 100 100 6 Parrea Per, S. A. C. Exploration services Peru 100 7 Fresnillo Chile, SpA Exploration services Chile 100 100 7 Minera Capricornio, SpA Exploration services Chile 100 2 3 Caja fide Ahorros Fresnillo, S. C. Administrative services Mxico The list of subsidiary undertakings presented in this note represents the full list of subsidiary undertakings, required to be submitted by Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006.
1 The remaining 44% interest in these companies are held by Comercializadora fide Metales Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
2 Whilst Fresnillo plc holds no direct ownership in Caja fide Ahorros Fresnillo, S. C. the entire share capital of the company is held through its subsidiaries.
3 The registered address for all Mexican subsidiaries is: Calzada Saltillo 400 No.
4 Registered address is: Second Floor, 21 Upper Brook Street, London W1.
5 Registered address is: 355 Burrard Street, Suite 1800, Vancouver, BC, V6C 2G8.
6 Registered address is: Repblica fide Colombia 643, Piso 9, Distrito San Isidro, Lima 27.
7 Registered address is: Apoquindo 4775 oficina 1002 Las Condes, Santiago fide Chile.
232 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other receivables from related parties note 13 4,176 7,958 Prepayments 157 159 Other 3 22 4,336 8,139 As of 31 December for each year presented, other receivables from related parties were neither past due nor impaired.
In determining the recoverability of a receivable, the Company performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the credit worthiness of the counterparty.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 104 6 Short-term deposits 4,456 133,364 Cash and cash equivalents 4,560 133,370 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary shares.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary shareholders.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares ata price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares.
Except at the option of the Company the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferable.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 233 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESERVES SHARE PREMIUM This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
MERGER RESERVE The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets acquired as part of the Pre-IPO reorganisation andthe nominal value of the shares issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Movements in this reserve during 2018 and 2017 represent the impairment losses and reversals of the carrying value of Fresnillos investments in subsidiaries transferred from retained earnings.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS RESERVE As at 31 December 2017 this reserve recorded fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax.
On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value were recycled to the income statement.
These assets were reclassified upon adoption of IFRS 9, for further detail see note 2 b.
FAIR VALUE RESERVE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVOCI The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in OCI, as explained in note 2 b.
These changes are accumulated within the FVOCI reserve within equity.
The Company transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earnings when the relevant equity securities are derecognised.
RETAINED EARNINGS This reserve records the accumulated results of the Company, less any distributions and dividends paid.
DIVIDENDS DECLARED AND PAID The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 are as follows: US cents per Amount Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2018 1 Final dividend for 2017 declared and paid during the year 29.8 219,594 2 Interim dividend for 2018 declared and paid during the year 10.7 78,848 40.5 298,442 Year ended 31 December 2017 3 Final dividend for 2016 declared and paid during the year 21.5 158,432 4 Interim dividend for 2017 declared and paid during the year 10.6 78,111 32.1 236,543 1 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 30 May 2018 and paid on 4 June 2018.
2 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 September 2018 and paid on 7 September 2018.
3 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2017 and paid on 26 May 2017.
4 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 31 July 2017 and paid on 8 September 2017.
234 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS SENIOR NOTES On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of an aggregate principal amount of US$800 million of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 the Notes.
An analysis of the debt recognised in the balance sheet is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 799,046 798,027 Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 1 Interest paid 46,267 46,267 Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 1,081 1,019 Closing balance 800,127 799,046 1 Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November.
The Group has the following restrictions derived from the issuance of the Notes: CHANGE OF CONTROL: Should the rating of the senior notes be downgraded as a result of a change of control defined as the sale or transfer of 35% or more of the common shares: the transfer of all or substantially all the assets of the Group: starting a dissolution or liquidation process: or the loss of the majority in the board of directors the Group is obligated to repurchase the notes at an equivalent price of 101% of their nominal value plus the interest earnt at the repurchase date, if requested to do so by any creditor.
PLEDGE ON ASSETS: The Group shall not pledge or allow a pledge on any property that may have a material impact on business performance key assets.
Nevertheless, the Group may pledge the aforementioned properties provided that the repayment of the Notes keeps the same level of priority as the pledge on those assets.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other payables to related parties note 13 1,592 3,895 Other taxes and contributions 8,490 5,332 Accrued expenses 738 596 10,820 9,823 The fair value of trade and other payables approximates their book values.
The Companys exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade andother payables is disclosed in note 17.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 235 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
CONTINGENCIES As of 31 December 2018 the Company has the following contingencies: The Company is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities SAT, by its Spanish acronym in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of corporate income tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, the reviews may cover longer periods.
As such, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future.
Other than discussed below, tax inspections that had been initiated by the SAT in previous years, were either closed or resolved through a Conclusive Agreement in 2018 or in early 2019.
According to article 69-H of the Mexican Tax Code, settlements reached and executed by taxpayers and the authority may not be challenged in any way.
Such settlements shall only be effective between the parties: and they shall not constitute a precedent in any case.
With respect to Minera Penmonts 2012 and 2013 tax inspections, on 11 July 2018 the Company filed before tax authorities a substance administrative appeal against the tax assessment, and on 3 September 2018, it filed additional documentation before tax authorities and is waiting for its response.
On 22 October 2018 we were notified of the SATs findings in respect of Minera Penmonts 2015 & 2016 tax inspections.
The Company considers it completed the provision of all documentation required to demonstrate that the tax deductions which are being challenged, are appropriate and is waiting for the SATs response.
On 1 February 2019 we were notified that the SAT will conduct an inspection of Minera Saucitos 2013 tax certificate.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome arising from these or any future inspections that may be initiated.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to theseparation of the Fresnillo Group the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as aresult of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided thatPeoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission: and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta or CUFIN account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
In regard to the ejido El Bajio matter previously reported by the Company: - In 2009 five members of the El Bajio agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont Penmont, submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court Tribunal Unitario Agrario of Hermosillo, Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land.
The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of the Soledad-Dipolos mine are located.
The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land.
The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
- The Agrarian Court noted in that same year that certain remediation activities were necessary to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency SEMARNAT in this respect.
The Agrarian Court further issued a procedural order in execution of its ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmonts occupation.
- In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order was excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appeared not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits.
In December 2016, the Agrarian Court issued a subsequent procedural order in which the Court recognised that Penmont complied with the agrarian ruling by having returned the land in dispute and, furthermore, that remediation activities are to be conducted in accordance with Federal environmental guidelines and regulations, as supervised by the competent Federal authorities.
Remediation activities in this respect are pending as the agrarian members have not yet permitted Penmont physical access to the lands.
Penmont has already presented a conceptual mine closure and remediation plan before the Agrarian Court in respect of the approximately 300 hectares where Penmont conducted mining activities.
The agrarian community Ejido El Bajio appealed this procedural order from the Agrarian Court and a Federal District Court denied this appeal.
The agrarian community has presented in the month of August 2017 a further and last recourse against this ruling by the Federal District Court and the final result is pending.
236 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED - In addition, and as also previously reported by the Company, claimants in the El Bajio matter presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above.
Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont.
As previously reported, the Agrarian Court issued rulings declaring such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmonts occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area.
Given that Penmont has not conducted significant mining operations or has specific geological interest in these land parcels, any contingency relating to such land parcels is not considered material by the Company.
The case relating to the claims over these land parcels remains subject to finalisation.
- Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajio matter.
There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings.
In 2011, flooding occurred in the Saucito mine, following which the Group filed an insurance claim in respect of the damage caused and in respect of business interruption.
In early 2018, the insurance provider notified the Group that the claim had been accepted: however, there is disagreement about the appropriate amount to be paid.
In October the Group received US$13.6 million in respect of the insurance claim, however this does not constitute a final settlement and management continues to pursue a higher insurance reimbursement.
Due to the fact that negotiations are on-going and there is uncertainty regarding the timing of reaching an agreement with the insurer, the amount expected to be recovered is currently not practicable to determine.
On 11 February 2019, the Supreme Court of Mexico issued a ruling regarding a specific constitutional issue presented by the former administration of the Federal Government, who challenged the ability of the State of Zacatecas to impose environmental taxes on aspects such as i extraction of rocks: ii emissions into the air: iii discharges of industrial residues: and iv disposal of industrial waste.
The ruling of the Supreme Court establishes that, from a constitutional point of view, there is no express limitation granting the Mexican State at a Federal level the sole power to impose such taxes: therefore, the State of Zacatecas has a joint right to create these taxes.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Court did not exhaust the analysis of the legality of each particular tax created by the State of Zacatecas.
The Company had previously challenged the legality of such taxes and in 2017 obtained an injunction from a Federal court.
The State of Zacatecas has appealed this ruling and the final result is pending.
RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party and include the Companys subsidiaries disclosed in note 5, as well as those entities who have a minority participation in Fresnillo Group companies.
Related party balances will be settled in cash.
All the balances as at 31 December 2018 and 2017 and the transactions carried-out with related parties for the years then ended correspond to subsidiaries.
A RELATED PARTY ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE Accounts receivable Accounts payable US$ thousands US$ thousands 31 December 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 2018 31 December 2017 1 Loans with related parties 895,315 590,286 334,857 Administrative services 4,101 7,911 1,590 2,888 Trademark royalty 733 Other 75 47 2 274 Sub-total 899,491 598,244 336,449 3,895 Less-current portion 899,491 598,244 336,449 3,895 Non-current portion 1 Accounts receivable derived from loans with related parties are net of reserve for expected credit loss of US$1.2 million 2017: nil see note 2 f. Effective interest rates on loans granted to related parties in US dollar range between 4.26% to 4.74% 2017: 3.23% to 3.43% : in Mexican peso range 9.98% to 10.36% 2017: 9.04% to 9.44.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 237 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES APART FROM DIVIDENDS, ADDITIONAL INVESTMENTS AND RETURNS OF CAPITAL ARE AS FOLLOWS: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: Trademark royalties 16,860 32,111 Interest on loans to related parties 54,270 52,163 Total income 71,130 84,274 Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: Administrative services 5,168 8,517 Interest on loans from related parties 1,439 1,451 Others 97 Total expenses 6,704 9,968 C COMPENSATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL OF THE COMPANY Key management personnel comprise Non-executive Directors.
In 2018, their compensation was US$0.7 million 2017: US$0.7million.
This compensation paid is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION The auditors remuneration for the Company was US$1.3 million 2017: US$1.2 million in respect of the audit of its financial statements together with a proportion of the fees in relation to Fresnillo Group audit.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the stand alone financial statements because Group financial statements are prepared which include these fees on a consolidated basis.
NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 571,022 323,122 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Impairment reversal of investment in subsidiaries 5 725,886 102,789 Dividend income 152,616 218,593 Income tax expense 1,753 3,131 Other expenses 1,526 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 36 Net finance gain loss 3,200 36,668 Foreign exchange loss 3,444 852 Working capital adjustments Decrease Increase in trade and other receivables 5,293 7,930 Increase in prepayments and other assets 159 Decrease Increase in trade and other payables 1,162 7,241 Cash generated from operations 10,700 20,657 Income tax paid 94 594 Net cash generated from operating activities 10,606 20,063 238 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A FAIR VALUE CATEGORY As at 31 December 2018 US$ thousands Amortised Fair value through Fair value through Financial assets: cost OCI profit or loss Trade and other receivables 4,336 Loans to related parties 896,562 Other financial assets 78,219 Derivative financial instruments 314 At amortised Fair value through Financial liabilities: Cost profit or loss Interest-bearing loans 800,127 Trade and other payables 1,592 Derivative financial instruments 3,807 As at 31 December 2017 US$ thousands At fair value Available-for-sale Loans through profit investments at fair and Financial assets: or loss value through OCI receivables Trade and other receivables 8,138 Loans to related parties 590,286 Available-for-sale financial assets 144,856 Derivative financial instruments 382 At fair value through profit or At amortised Financial liabilities: loss Cost Interest-bearing loans 799,046 Trade and other payables 2,888 Derivative financial instruments 19,216 B FAIR VALUES The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, other than those with carrying amounts that are a reasonable approximation of their fair values are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying Amount Fair Value 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 314 382 314 382 1 Loans to related parties 896,562 590,286 896,562 590,286 Other financial assets 78,219 78,219 Available-for-sale financial assets 144,856 144,856 Financial liabilities: 2 Interest-bearing loans 800,127 799,046 817,936 878,864 Derivative financial instruments 3,807 19,216 3,807 19,216 1 Loans with related party are categorised in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
2 Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 239 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2018 US$ thousands Fair value measure using Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts note 16 c 240 240 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 74 74 Other financial assets: Equity investments 78,219 78,219 78,219 314 78,533 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts note 16 c 3,660 3,660 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 147 147 3,807 3,807 As of 31 December 2017 US$ thousands Fair value measure using Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts note 16 c 71 71 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 311 311 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 144,856 144,856 144,856 382 145,238 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts note 16 c 19,179 19,179 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 37 37 19,216 19,216 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair valuemeasurements.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: OPTION AND FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The foreign currency forward Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies.
The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency.
240 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED OPTION COMMODITY CONTRACTS The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The option commodity Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities.
The option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity.
EQUITY INVESTMENTS: The fair value of equity investments is derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Level 1 INTEREST-BEARING LOANS Fair value of the Companys interest-bearing loan, is derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Level 1 LOANS WITH RELATED PARTIES Fair value of the Companys loan to related party is determined using a discounted cash flow method based on market interest rates at each reporting date.
C DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its subsidiaries exposure to foreign exchange risk arising from theactivities of these subsidiaries.
Also the Company enters into option contracts to manage its subsidiaries exposure to commodity price risk associated with the sales of gold.
In the Groups consolidated financial statements certain of these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Companys stand-alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flowhedges.
The following tables summarise the fair value of derivative financial instruments held as of 31 December 2018 and 2017.
As at 31 December 2018 2017 Financial assets US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Option contracts Gold 194 Lead 46 71 Total derivative related assets 240 71 Less current portion 240 71 2 Non-current portion As at 31 December 2018 2017 Financial liabilities US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Commodity contracts Gold 3,660 18,096 Zinc 1,083 Total derivative related liabilities 3,660 19,179 Less current portion 3,660 4,992 2 Non-current portion 14,187 1 Option contracts operate as zero cost collars.
2 Non-current portion corresponds to gold option contracts that mature in a period over one year from the reporting date.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 241 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW The Companys principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, are comprised of trade receivables, cash, availablefor-sale financial assets, loans to and from related parties, interest-bearing loans andtrade payables.
The Company enters into certain derivative transactions with the purpose of managing foreign exchange risk arising on the activity and transactions of its subsidiaries.
The Company has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Market risk, including foreign currency, interest rate and equity price risks.
This note presents information about the Companys exposure to each of the above risks and the Companys objectives, policies and processes forassessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company risk management framework.
The Companys risk management policies have been established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company activities.
The Company, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Company risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Company.
The Audit Committee isassisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, theresults of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
A MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, or interest rates will affect the Company income or the value ofits financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar.
Transactions in foreign currencies include the purchase of services, payment or receipt of dividends and other items.
Asa result, the Company has financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the USdollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods.
There is no impact on the Companys equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of US decrease Year ended 31 December dollar US$ thousands 2018 10% 399 10% 487 2017 20% 88 10% 59 242 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the USdollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of US decrease Year ended 31 December dollar US$ thousands 2018 10% 172 10% 258 2017 10% 335 10% 500 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the USdollar compared to the euro, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of US decrease Year ended 31 December dollar US$ thousands 2018 10% 1,460 10% 1,453 2017 10% 1,058 10% 1,056 COMMODITY RISK The Companys subsidiaries have exposure to changes in metals prices specifically gold, lead and zinc which have a significant effect on the Companys results.
These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles.
The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge against precious metals commodity price exposure in its subsidiaries, see mentioned in note 16 c. The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity relating to changes in the fair value of commodity derivative contracts of financial assets and liabilities, reflecting the impact on the Companys profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
There is no impact on the Companys equity other than the effect on profit before tax.
Effect on profit before tax: Increase decrease in commodity prices increase decrease Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands 2018 10% 15% 25% 20% 8,703 10% 15% 20% 15% 14,910 2017 10% 10% 20% 15% 50,854 10% 10% 20% 15% 31,725 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 243 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTEREST RATE RISK The Company is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments.
The Companys earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on any floating element of the loans with related parties and interest earned on cash balances.
Interest-bearing loans are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value but not its carrying amount.
Therefore, interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are excluded from the table below.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of all financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied toa full year from the balance sheet date.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2018 75 34 75 34 2017 90 1,200 50 667 EQUITY PRICE RISK The Company has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale financial assets.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Companys profit before tax and equity: Effect on profit Effect on equity: Increase before tax: increase decrease increase decrease Year ended 31 December in equity price decrease US$ thousands 2018 40% 31,288 40% 31,288 2017 40% 28,972 65% 65,408 B CREDIT RISK Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Companys ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The financial assets are trade and other receivables, intercompany loans, cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale financial assets.
The Companys policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties failure to honour their obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Companys exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Companys exposure tocredit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counter party.
The Companys financial assets are with counterparties that the Company considers to have an appropriate credit rating.
As disclosed in note 13, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties.
At each balance sheet date, the Companys financial assets were neither impaired nor past due.
The Companys policies are aimed at minimising losses from the foreign currency and commodity hedging contracts.
The Companys foreign currency and commodity derivative contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Companys surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. which manages cash and cash equivalents investing ina number of financial institutions.
In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Company only deposits cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions with a credit rating of M-1 Moodys and mxA-1 Standard and Poors and above, and only for periods of less than four months.
The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes.
See note 2 b for the maximum credit exposure for other financial assets, note 8 for cash and cash equivalents and note 13 for related partybalances.
244 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED C LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Company monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2018 Interest-bearing loans 46,267 92,534 92,534 800,000 1,031,335 Derivatives financial instruments liabilities 3,660 - - - 3,660 Trade and other payables 3,807 - - - 3,807 US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 Interest-bearing loans 46,267 92,534 92,534 846,267 1,077,602 Derivatives financial instruments liabilities 4,992 14,224 - - 19,216 Trade and other payables 2,888 - - - 2,888 The disclosed financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows.
However those amounts may be settled gross or net.
The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2018 Inflows 12,608 4,310 - - 16,918 Outflows 12,688 4,290 - - 16,978 Net 80 20 60 US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 Inflows 15,174 - - - 15,174 Outflows 14,884 - - - 14,884 Net 290 - - - 290 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from derivative financial instruments which the Company expects are going to be exercised during 2019 as at 31 December 2018 and during 2018 as at 31 December 2017, either by the Company or counterparty.
Management considers that the Company has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The primary objective of the Companys capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value.
Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains and losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and other financial assets.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The Companys dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows.
Mineral resources are not ore reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability.
All gures rounded to reect the relative accuracy of the estimates.
Gold, silver, lead and zinc assays were capped where appropriate.
2 Mineral resources are reported at metal equivalent cut-off grades based on metal price assumptions, variable metallurgical recovery assumptions variable metallurgical recoveries as a function of grade and relative metal distribution, mining costs, processing costs, general and administrative G&A costs, and variable NSR factors NSR factors include smelting and transportation costs.
The AgEq variable cut-offs grades are calculated by dividing the applicable costs by a variable Ag net value factor which includes prices, recoveries, and payabilities.
3 The cut-off grade for Cinegas mineral resources varies between 171 and 237 g t AgEq.
4 The Mega Centauro, Soledad Dipolos, and Noche Buena resources are reported within pit shells run at a US$1,250 oz Au price.
5 The Mega Centauro, Soledad Dipolos, Noche Buena open pit mines has produced silver at an average concentration of 0.3 g t to 1.1 g t. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model.
Based on past production, factored in situ silver in the open pit M & I & I resources is approximately in the range of 14 to 15 Moz.
6 Mega Centauro mineral reserves are reported at varied cut-offs dependent on material types and grade.
Oxide material above 0.25 g t Au reports to the heap leach, transitional and sulfide material above 0.30 g t Au reports to the heap leach, oxide material above 1.05 g t Au reports to the mill, transitional and sulfide material above 0.54 g t Au reports to the mill.
7 The Soledad Dipolos mine has been subject to legal action regarding surface access.
SRK has been provided with documents indicating a reasonable chance that these actions will be settled in favour of the mine.
Metal price assumptions considered for the calculation of metal equivalent grades are: Gold US$ oz 1,250.00, Silver US$ oz 17.00, Lead US$ lb 0.90 and Zinc US$ lb 1.10 The resources were estimated by Fresnillo.
Dr Bart Stryhas, CPG #11034, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource estimates for Minera Penmont.
Matthew Hastings, M. Sc, P. Geo, MAusIMM #314693 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource estimates for Cinega.
Benjamin Parsons, BSc, MSc Geology, MAusIMM CP #222568 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource estimates for Fresnillo and Saucito.
Giovanny Ortiz, MAusIMM #304612 of SRK Consulting U. S., Inc. a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource estimates for San Julin.
