250 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL CALENDAR SHARE FRAUD WARNING Preliminary Statement 26 February 2019 Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of First Interim Management Statement 10 April 2019 the blue and offered shares that turn out to be worthless or Annual General Meeting 21 May 2019 non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
These Interim Statement 30 July 2019 calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms, mostly Second Interim Management Statement 23 October 2019 based abroad.
While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
Most victims DIVIDEND PAYMENT SCHEDULE are experienced investors, losing on average 20,000.
2018 Final Dividend Record Date 26 April 2019 PROTECT YOURSELF 2018 Final Dividend Payment Date 24 May 2019 2019 Interim Dividend Record Date 9 August 2019 If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted 2019 Interim Dividend Payment Date 6 September 2019 shares, inflated prices for shares you own, or free company or research reports, take these steps before handing over any money: REGISTRAR JOINT CORPORATE BROKER Equiniti Ltd Merrill Lynch International 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation.
Aspect House, 2 King Edward Street 2.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk Spencer Road, Lancing London EC1A 1HQ register to ensure they are authorised.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact United Kingdom the firm.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there REGISTERED OFFICE Ernst & Young LLP are no contact details on the Register or you are told they 21 Upper Brook Street 1 More London Place are out of date.
Search the list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid United Kingdom United Kingdom doing business with.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS SOLICITOR Calzada Legaria No.
549 Travers Smith If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares, you will not Torre 2, Piso 11 10 Snow Hill have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Delegacin Miguel Hidalgo London EC1A 2AL Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
11250 Mexico, D. F. United Kingdom Mexico REPORT A SCAM If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the SPONSOR AND CORPORATE FCA using the form at www.
uk scams where you can BROKER also review the latest scams or call the Consumer Helpline on JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 0800 111 6768.
25 Bank Street London E14 5JP If you have already paid money to share fraudsters then United Kingdom contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
For further information, please visit our website: www.
com or contact: Fresnillo plc Tel: 44 0 20 7399 2470 Gabriela Mayor, Head of Investor Relations Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 251 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, plans, projects, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will, or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Groups intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, the Groups results of operations, financial position, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the silver and gold industries.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results of the Groups operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of the markets and the industry in which the Group operates, may differ materially from those described in, or suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this document.
In addition, even if the results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of the markets and the industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this document, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
A number of factors could cause results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, general economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency fluctuations including the US dollar and Mexican peso exchange rates, the Groups ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential into resources or reserves, changes in its business strategy, political and economic uncertainty.
Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materially from actual results.
Any forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this document, reflect the Groups current view with respect to future events and are subject to risks relating to future events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the Groups operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.
Investors should specifically consider the factors identified in this document which could cause actual results to differ before making an investment decision.
Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements in this document that may occur due to any change in the Groups expectations or to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
252 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018
