170 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 5 of the Parent Company accounts the Group.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75 percent of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
The registered address of Peoles is Calzada Legaria 549, Mexico City 11250.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
Further information on related party balances and transactions with Peoles Group companies is disclosed in note 26.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 25 February 2019.
The Groups principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production.
The primary contents ofthis production are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
Further information about the Group operating mines and its principal activities is disclosed in note 3.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES A BASIS OF PREPARATION AND CONSOLIDATION, AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE BASIS OF PREPARATION AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for trade receivables, derivative financial instruments, equity securities, investment in funds and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all values are rounded tothenearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as of 31 December 2018 and 2017, and the results of operations and cash flows for the years then ended.
Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated tothe extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition byacquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Anylosses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, a transaction with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interest are also recorded in equity.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 171 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, except for the following: NEW STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS AND AMENDMENTS NEW STANDARDS ADOPTED BY THE GROUP FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted IFRS 9, Financial Instruments which replaced IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement using the modified retrospective approach, hence, the Group does not restate prior periods.
Differences between previous carrying amounts using accounting policies as disclosed in the 2017 ARA and those determined under IFRS 9 at the date of initial application have been included in opening retained earnings.
IFRS 9 provides a revised model for classification and measurement of financial instruments: a single, forward-looking expected loss impairment model: and changes to hedge accounting.
The classification and measurement model for financial assets in IFRS 9 is based on the Groups business models for managing its financial assets and whether the contractual cash flows represent solely payments for principal and interest.
Generally, equity instruments are classified and measured as fair value through profit or loss FVPL.
However, in respect of equity instruments that the Group intends to hold for the foreseeable future, IFRS 9 permits the Group to irrevocably elect upon initial recognition or transition to classify those assets as fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
Changes in the fair value of equity instruments elected to be classified as FVOCI are not reclassified to profit or loss in future periods.
Most of the requirements in IAS 39 for classification and measurement of financial liabilities were carried forward in IFRS 9.
LONG-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS The adoption of IFRS 9 resulted in certain changes to the classification of financial assets previously classified as available-for-sale financial assets AFS.
The Company designated its investments in quoted equity investments as FVOCI and classified investments in funds as FVPL: in thousands of US dollars 1 January 2018 31 December 2017 Available-for-sale financial assets 144,856 Debt instruments at fair value through profit or loss 19,877 Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 124,979 144,856 144,856 Upon transition, the balance in the AFS reserve relating to investments in funds was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income OCI to retained earnings in the amount of US$53.8 million.
In addition, the amounts previously recognised in retained earnings related to historical impairment of AFS that are now classified as FVOCI have been reclassified to the FVOCI reserve in the amount of US$6.0 million.
TRADE RECEIVABLES Under IFRS 9, embedded derivatives are no longer separated from their host contracts.
Instead, where embedded derivatives are present, the entire host contract is classified as fair value through profit or loss.
For the Group, this change affects the trade receivables that include provisional pricing adjustments.
However, it did not result in any change in the carrying amount of those trade receivables.
IMPAIRMENT The adoption of the new expected credit loss impairment model under IFRS 9, as opposed to an incurred credit loss model under IAS 39, had a negligible impact on the carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets on the transition date given the Group transacts exclusively with organisations with strong credit ratings, has had a negligible historical level of counterparty default and only has a short term period of exposure to credit risk.
HEDGING The new general hedge accounting requirements retain the three types of hedge accounting mechanisms previously available under IAS 39.
Under IFRS 9, however, greater flexibility has been introduced to the types of transactions eligible for hedge accounting, specifically broadening the types of instruments that qualify for hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non-financial items that are eligible for hedge accounting.
In addition, the effectiveness test has been replaced with the principle of an economic relationship and retrospective assessment of hedge effectiveness is no longer required.
Enhanced disclosure requirements about an entitys risk management activities have also been introduced.
172 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IFRS 9 changes the accounting requirements for the time value of purchased options where only the intrinsic value of such options has been designated as the hedging instrument.
In such cases, changes in the time value of options are initially recognised in OCI as a cost of hedging.
Where the hedged item is transaction related, amounts initially recognised in OCI related to the change in the time value of options are reclassified to profit or loss or as a basis adjustment to non-financial assets or liabilities upon maturity of the hedged item, or, in the case of a hedged item that realises over time, the amounts initially recognised in OCI are amortised to profit or loss on a systematic and rational basis over the life of the hedged item.
Under IAS 39, the change in time value of options was recorded in the income statement.
As at 1 January 2018, the adjustment to reflect the changes in accounting for the time value of such options increased retained earnings and decreased the cost of hedging reserve by US$19.1 million US$13.4 million net of tax.
REVENUE RECOGNITION On January 1, 2018, the Group adopted IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers which supersedes IAS 18, Revenue.
IFRS 15 establishes a single five-step model framework for determining the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer.
IFRS 15 requires entities to recognise revenue when control of goods or services transfers to the customer whereas the previous standard, IAS 18, required entities to recognise revenue when the risks and rewards of the goods or services transfer to the customer.
The Company concluded there is no change in the timing of revenue recognition of its dor, precipitates and concentrate sales under IFRS 15 compared to the previous standard as the point of transfer of risks and rewards of goods and services and transfer of control occur at the same time.
Therefore, no adjustment was required to the Groups financial statements.
Revenue associated with the sale of concentrates, precipitates and dor bars is recognised when control of the asset sold is transferred to the customer.
Indicators of control transferring include an unconditional obligation to pay, legal title, physical possession, transfer of risk and rewards and customer acceptance.
This generally occurs when the goods are delivered to the customers smelter or refinery agreed with the buyer: at which point the buyer controls the goods.
The Groups sales contracts, in general, provide for a provisional payment based upon provisional assays and quoted metal prices.
Revenues are recorded under these contracts at the time control passes to the buyer and measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable based on forward market prices set on specified quotational periods applied to the Groups best estimate of contained metal quantities.
At each reporting date, provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract, changes in fair value of provisionally priced metal is recognised in revenue adjusting the value of sales.
The transaction price can be measured reliably as an active and freely traded commodity market such as the London Metals Exchange exists for silver, gold, zinc and lead and the value of product sold by the Company is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
Variations between the price recorded at the date when control is transferred to the buyer and the actual final price set under the smelting contracts are caused by changes in metal prices resulting in the receivable being recorded atFVPL.
Final settlement is based on quantities adjusted as required following the inspection of the product by the customer as well as applicable commodity prices.
IFRS 15 requires that variable consideration should only be recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur.
The Group concluded that the adjustments relating to the final assay results for the quantity and quality of concentrate sold are not significant and do not constrain the recognition of revenue.
Refining and treatment charges under the sales contracts continue to be deducted from revenue from sales of concentrates as these are not related to a distinct good or service.
OTHER NARROW SCOPE AMENDMENTS The Group has adopted IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Considerations, which did not have a material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Other than the amendment mentioned above, there were no significant new standards that the Group was required to adopt effective from 1 January 2018.
STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS AND AMENDMENTS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, as applicable to the Groups financial statements, when they become effective, except where indicated.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 173 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 16 LEASES IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value.
A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier application is permitted.
The Group has elected to adopt the new standard from 1 January 2019 applying the simplified transition approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption.
Right-of-use assets will be measured at the amount of the lease liability on adoption.
The Group has set up a project team which has reviewed all of the Groups leasing arrangements over the last year in light of the new lease accounting rules in IFRS 16.
As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of $16.1 million, see note 24.
Of these commitments, approximately $0.2 million relate to short-term leases and $2.7 million to low value leases which will both be recognised on a straight-line basis as expense in profit or loss.
IFRIC 23 UNCERTAINTY OVER INCOME TAX TREATMENTS This Interpretation clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
The interpretation is to be applied to the determination of taxable profit tax loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
Application of tax law can be complex and requires judgement to assess risk and estimate outcomes where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain.
The Group evaluated potential uncertain tax positions under the requirements of the Interpretation and has not identified any impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 23 is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The IASB and IFRS Interpretation committee have issued other amendments resulting from improvements to IFRSs that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective.
C SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates andassumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included intheconsolidated financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes tothe consolidated financial statements.
JUDGEMENTS Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 are: Stripping costs, note 2 e : The Group incurs waste removal costs stripping costs during the development and production phases of its surface mining operations.
During the production phase, stripping costs production stripping costs can be incurred both in relation to the production of inventory in that period and the creation of improved access and mining flexibility in relation to ore to be mined in the future.
The former are included as part of the costs of inventory, while the latter are capitalised as a stripping activity asset, where certain criteria are met.
Once the Group has identified production stripping for a surface mining operation, judgment is required in identifying the separate components of the ore bodies for that operation, to which stripping costs should be allocated.
Generally, a component will be a subset of the total ore body that is made more accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
In identifying components of the ore body, the Group works closely with the mining operations personnel to analyse each of the mine plans since components are usually identified during the mine planning stage.
The Group reassesses the components of ore bodies in line with the preparation and update of mine plans which usually depend on newest information of reserves and resources.
In the current year, this reassessment did not give rise to any changes in the identification of components except for those existing at Centauro pit at Herradura mine.
Following the results of reserves and resources studies in the prior year, significant additional gold reserves were identified at Centauro pit.
The mining operations worked on assessing the impact of these new reserves on the design of the mine and proposed a new mine plan which was approved in July 2018.
The new design significantly expands the size of the Centauro pit and results in areas which were previously going to be mined as two separate components being accessed and mined as a single component.
Based on the new mine plan, effective 1 July 2018 the Group has changed the components identified at Centuaro pit and therefore the measurement of the corresponding stripping costs.
This change was incorporated prospectively from 1 July 2018.
Had the determination of components not changed, capitalised stripping cost during the six-month period ended 31 December 2018 would have been US$28.6 million higher, with an offsetting impact against the work-in-progress inventory balance as of 31 December 2018.
174 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Contingencies, note 25: By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources, note 2 e : Ore reserves are estimates of the amount of ore that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups mining properties: mineral resources are an identified mineral occurrence with reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by appropriately qualified persons relating to the geological and technical data on the size, depth, shape and grade of the ore body and suitable production techniques and recovery rates, in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code 2012.
Such an analysis requires complex geological judgements to interpret the data.
The estimation of recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources is based upon factors such as geological assumptions and judgements made in estimating the size and grade of the ore body, estimates of commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, future capital requirements and production costs.
As additional geological information is produced during the operation of a mine, the economic assumptions used and the estimates of ore reserves and mineral resources may change.
Such changes may impact the Groups reported balance sheet and income statement including: The carrying value of property, plant and equipment and mining properties may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows, which consider both ore reserves and mineral resources: Depreciation and amortisation charges in the income statement may change where such charges are determined using the unit-of-production method based on ore reserves: Stripping costs capitalised in the balance sheet, either as part of mine properties or inventory, or charged to profit or loss may change due to changes in stripping ratios: Provisions for mine closure costs may change where changes to the ore reserve and resources estimates affect expectations about when such activities will occur: and The recognition and carrying value of deferred income tax assets may change due to changes regarding the existence of such assets and in estimates of the likely recovery of such assets.
Estimate of recoverable ore on leaching pads: In the Groups open pit mines, certain mined ore is placed on leaching pads where a solution is applied to the surface of the heap to dissolve the gold and enable extraction.
The determination of the amount of recoverable gold requires estimation with consideration of the quantities of ore placed on the pads and the grade of that ore based on assay data and the estimated recovery percentage based on metallurgical studies and current technology.
The grades of ore placed on pads are regularly compared to the quantities of metal recovered through the leaching process to evaluate the appropriateness of the estimated recovery metallurgical balancing.
The Group monitors the results of the metallurgical balancing process and recovery estimates are refined based on actual results over time and when new information becomes available.
In 2017, the Group decided that it would construct a new leaching pad in a separate area of the Herradura mine.
To reduce the hauling distance from the pit to the new pad, the Group constructed an access route through certain existing leaching pads, removing and redepositing the ore in the process.
These works allowed the Group to perform assays and verify certain characteristics of the ore, including the humidity of the ore deposited and the grade of gold in solution.
The Group finalised the evaluation of those assays during first half of 2018.
As a result of this new information, the Group updated its estimate of the remaining gold content in leaching pads resulting in an increase of 98.9 thousand ounces of gold as at 1 January 2018.
This represents 1.7% of the total gold content deposited from the inception of the mine to 31 December 2017.
This change in estimation was incorporated prospectively in inventory from 1 January 2018.
The increase in the number of ounces reduced the weighted average cost of inventory.
Had the estimation not changed, production cost during the year ended 31 December 2018 would have been US$71.9 million higher, with an offsetting impact against the work-in-progress inventory balance as of 31 December 2018.
Silverstream, note 13: The valuation of the Silverstream contract as a derivative financial instrument requires estimation by management.
The term of the derivative is based on the Sabinas life of mine and the value of this derivative is determined using a number of estimates, including the estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources and future production profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated recoveries of silver from ore mined, estimates of the future price of silver and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
For further detail on theinputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 30.
The impact of changes in silver price assumptions, foreign exchange, inflation and the discount rate is included in note 31.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 175 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Estimation of the mine closure costs, notes 2 j and 19: Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect theultimate amounts payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, the currency in which the cost will be incurred, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
Income tax, notes 2 q and 10: The recognition of deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order toutilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application ofexisting tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability oftheGroup to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
D FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Parent Companys functional currency.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be more than one currency in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
For all operating entities, this is US dollars.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of thetransaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined.
For entities with functional currencies other than US dollars as at the reporting date, assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency of the Group by applying the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
The resulting difference on exchange is included as a cumulative translation adjustment in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of an entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement.
E PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any.
Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into working condition for its intended use.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost less the residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life hasbeen assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of sales on a unit-of-production UOP basis for mine buildings and installations, plant and equipment used in the mine production process or on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset when not related to the mine production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect unit-of-production calculations, are accounted forprospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
The expected useful lives are as follows: Years Buildings 6 Plant and equipment 4 1 Mining properties and development costs 16 Other assets 3 1 Depreciation of mining properties and development cost are determined using the unit-of-production method.
An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising at fide-recognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount oftheasset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is fide-recognised.
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use.
Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
176 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED DISPOSAL OF ASSETS Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
MINING PROPERTIES AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Payments for mining concessions are expensed during the exploration phase of a prospect and capitalised during the development of the project when incurred.
Purchased rights to ore reserves and mineral resources are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part ofabusiness combination.
Mining concessions, when capitalised, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of time in which benefits are expected to be obtained from that specific concession.
Mine development costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment.
Mine development activities commence once a feasibility study hasbeen performed for the specific project.
When an exploration prospect has entered into the advanced exploration phase and sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals has been obtained preoperative expenses relating to mine preparation works are also capitalised as a mine development cost.
The initial cost of a mining property comprises its construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the mining property into operation, the initial estimate of the provision for mine closure cost, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
The Group cease the capitalisation of borrowing cost when the physical construction of the asset is complete and is ready for its intended use.
Revenues from metals recovered from ore mined in the mine development phase, prior to commercial production, are credited to mining properties and development costs.
Upon commencement of production, capitalised expenditure is depreciated using the unit-of-production method based onthe estimated economically proven and probable reserves to which they relate.
Mining properties and mine development are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value, if any.
CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of construction in progress is not depreciated.
SUBSEQUENT EXPENDITURES All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those partsthat are replaced, is fide-recognised.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statementas incurred.
STRIPPING COSTS In a surface mine operation, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste material in order to gain access to the ore bodies stripping activity.
During development and pre-production phases, the stripping activity costs are capitalised as part of the initial cost of development and construction of the mine the stripping activity asset and charged as depreciation or depletion to cost of sales, in the income statement, based on the mines units of production once commercial operations begin.
Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a surface mine.
At the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the surface mine the activity is referred to as production stripping.
Production stripping cost is capitalised only if the following criteria is met: It is probable that the future economic benefits improved access to an ore body associated with the stripping activity will flow to the Group: The Group can identify the component of an ore body for which access has been improved: and The costs relating to the improved access to that component can be measured reliably.
If not all of the criteria are met, the production stripping costs are charged to the income statement as operating costs as they areincurred.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 177 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Stripping activity costs associated with such development activities are capitalised into existing mining development assets, as mining properties and development cost, within property, plant and equipment, using a measure that considers the volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume, for a given volume of ore production.
This measure is known as component stripping ratio, which is revised annually in accordance with the mine plan.
The amount capitalised is subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body related to the stripping activity asset, by using the units of production method.
The identification of components and the expected useful lives of those components are evaluated as new information of reserves and resources is available.
Depreciation is recognised as cost of sales in the income statement.
The capitalised stripping activity asset is carried at cost less accumulated depletion depreciation, less impairment, if any.
Cost includes the accumulation of costs directly incurred to perform the stripping activity that improves access to the identified component of ore, plus an allocation of directly attributable overhead costs.
The costs associated with incidental operations are excluded from the cost of the stripping activity asset.
F IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS The carrying amounts of non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If there are indicators ofimpairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of those from other assets or groups ofassets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at therecoverable amount in the balance sheet.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
THE RECOVERABLE AMOUNT OF AN ASSET The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Fair value less cost of disposal is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in an orderly sale transaction between market participants.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independently of those from other assets, or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
REVERSAL OF IMPAIRMENT An assessment is made each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years.
Such impairment loss reversal is recognised in the income statement.
G FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES From 1 January 2018, the Group classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories: those to be measured at amortised cost: those to be measured subsequently at fair value through OCI: and those to be measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss.
The classification depends on the Groups business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cashflows.
For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or OCI.
For investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading, this will depend on whether the Group has made an irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the equity investment at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets changes.
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade-date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss FVPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss.
178 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest.
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Groups business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset.
There are three measurement categories into which the Group classifies its debt instruments: AMORTISED COST Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost.
Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in other gains losses together with foreign exchange gains and losses.
Impairment losses are presented as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss.
The Groups financial assets at amortised cost include receivables other than trade receivables which are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest, are measured at FVOCI.
Movements in the carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in profit or loss.
When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss and recognised in other gains losses.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in other gains losses and impairment expenses are presented as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss.
At transition to IFRS 9, the Group had certain financial asset that were accounted for as debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income: however, at the reporting date, no such assets existed.
EQUITY INSTRUMENTS DESIGNATED AS FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to classify irrevocably its equity investments as equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI when they meet the definition of equity under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and are not held for trading.
The classification is determined on an  basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to profit or loss.
Dividends are recognised as other income in the statement of profit or loss when the right of payment has been established, except when the Group benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI.
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are not subject to impairment assessment.
The Group elected to classify irrevocably its listed equity investments under this category.
FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL.
A gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVPL is recognised in profit or loss and presented net within other gains losses in the period in which it arises.
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at FVPL are recognised in other gains losses in the statement of profit or loss asapplicable.
The Groups trade receivables and derivative financial instruments, including the Silverstream contract, are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
fide-RECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS From 1 January 2018, the Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses associated with its debt instruments carried at amortised cost and FVOCI.
The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
For receivables other than trade receivables which are measured at FVPL, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 179 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS H INVENTORIES Finished goods, work in progress and ore stockpile inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method based on cost of production which excludes borrowing costs.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: personnel expenses, which include employee profit sharing, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: the depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Operating materials and spare parts are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
An allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories is determined by reference to specific items of stock.
A regular review is undertaken by management to determine the extent of such an allowance.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
I CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
J PROVISIONS MINE CLOSURE COST A provision for mine closure cost is made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure, restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas based on a mine closure plan, in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future economic benefit and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis by the Group for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, the portion of the increase is charged directly as an expense.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
K EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group operates the following plans: DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLAN This funded plan is based on each employees earnings and years of service.
This plan was open to all employees in Mexico until it was closed to new entrants on 1 July 2007.
The plan is denominated in Mexican Pesos.
For members as at 30 June 2007, benefits were frozen at that date subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index NCPI.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared byan external actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date.
The discount rate is the yield on bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss.
Past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits havealready vested following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is .
The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which theobligations are to be settled directly.
The value of any asset is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form ofrefunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan.
Net interest cost is recognised in finance cost and return on plan assets other than amounts reflected in net interest cost is recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss.
180 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLAN A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due.
The contributions are based on the employees salary.
This plan started on 1 July 2007 and it is voluntary for all employees to join this scheme.
SENIORITY PREMIUM FOR VOLUNTARY SEPARATION This unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year forthose unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service.
Non-unionised employees with more than 15 years of service have the right toa payment equivalent to 12 days for each year of service.
For both cases, the payment is based on the legal current minimum salary.
The cost of providing benefits for the seniority premium for voluntary separation is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an external actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised as income orexpense in the period in which they occur.
OTHER Benefits for death and disability are covered through insurance policies.
Termination payments for involuntary retirement dismissals are charged to the income statement, when incurred.
L EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING In accordance with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay for employee profit sharing PTU equivalent to ten percent ofthe taxable income of each fiscal year.
PTU is accounted for as employee benefits and is calculated based on the services rendered by employees during the year, considering their most recent salaries.
The liability is recognised as it accrues and is charged to the income statement.
PTU, paid in each fiscal year, is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
M LEASES The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a There is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: b A renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the leaseterm: c There is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset: or d There is a substantial change to the asset.
GROUP AS A LESSEE Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance ofthe liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
GROUP AS A LESSOR Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognisedover the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise tothe reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b above.
For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2007, in accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 181 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS N REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS Revenue is recognised when control of goods or services transfers to the customer based on the performance obligations settle in the contracts with customers.
SALE OF GOODS Revenue associated with the sale of concentrates, precipitates and dor bars is recognised when control of the asset sold is transferred to the customer.
As the adjustments relating to the final assay results for the quantity and quality of concentrate sold are not significant, they do not constrain the recognition ofrevenue.
Refining and treatment charges under the sales contracts are deducted from revenue from sales of concentrates as these are not related to a distinct good or service.
O EXPLORATION EXPENSES Exploration activity involves the search for mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability ofan identified resource.
Exploration expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred and are recorded in the following captions: Cost of sales: costs relating to in-mine exploration, that ensure continuous extraction quality and extend mine life, and Exploration expenses: Costs incurred in geographical proximity to existing mines in order to replenish or increase reserves: and Costs incurred in regional exploration with the objective of locating new ore deposits in Mexico and Latin America and which are identified byproject.
Costs incurred are charged to the income statement until there is sufficient probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals and a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project.
P SELLING EXPENSES The Group recognises in selling expenses a levy in respect of the Extraordinary Mining Right as sales of gold and silver are recognised.
The Extraordinary Mining Right consists of a 0.5% rate, applicable to the owners of mining titles.
The payment must be calculated over the total sales of all mining concessions.
The payment of this mining right must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year and can be credited against corporate income tax.
The Group also recognises in selling expenses a discovery premium royalty equivalent to 1% of the value of the mineral extracted and sold during the year from certain mining titles granted by the Mexican Geological Survey SGM in the San Julin mine.
The premium is settled to SGM on a quarterly basis.
Q TAXATION CURRENT INCOME TAX Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the country the Group operates.
DEFERRED INCOME TAX Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets andliabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timingof the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
182 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to theextent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future andtaxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable thatsufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxationauthority.
MINING RIGHTS The Special Mining Right is considered an income tax under IFRS and states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities See note 10 e. The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities on temporary differences arising in the determination of the Special Mining Right See note 10.
SALES TAX Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except: When the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable: and When receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
R DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING The Group uses derivatives to reduce certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodities price which impact its financial and business transactions.
Hedges are designed to protect the value of expected production against the dynamic market conditions.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The full fair value of a derivative is classified as non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the item is more than 12 months.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to theincome statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type ofderivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates forcontracts with similar maturity profiles, European foreign exchange options are valued using the Black Scholes model.
The Silverstream contract is valued using a Net Present Value valuation approach.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 183 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Beginning 1 January 2018, the documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the Group will assess whether the hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements including the analysis of sources of hedge ineffectiveness and how the hedge ratio is determined.
A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting if it meets all of the following effectiveness requirements: There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument.
The effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship.
The hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Group actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the Group actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedgeditem.
Hedges which meet the criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: CASH FLOW HEDGES For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded as in other comprehensive income and are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such aswhen a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For gains or losses related to the hedging of foreign exchange risk these are included, in the line item in which the hedged costs are reflected.
Where the hedged item is the cost of anon-financial asset or liability, the amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
This is not a reclassification adjustment and will not be recognised in OCI for the period.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised directly as finance costs, in the income statement of the related period.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss recognised directly in other comprehensive income from the period that the hedge was effective remains separately in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the income statement.
When hedging with options, the Group designates only the intrinsic value movement of the hedging option within the hedge relationship.
The time value of the option contracts is therefore excluded from the hedge designation.
S BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes 12 or more months to get ready for its intended use or sale a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where surplus funds are available for a short term from funds borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated from the temporary investment of such amounts is also capitalised and deducted from the total capitalised borrowing cost.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
T FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 29 and 30.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability, or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
184 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 29.
U DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys shareholders or Board asappropriate.
Dividends payable to minority shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys subsidiaries.
SEGMENT REPORTING For management purposes, the Group is organised into operating segments based on producing mines.
At 31 December 2018, the Group has seven reportable operating segments as follows: The Fresnillo mine, located in the state of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine.
The Saucito mine, located in the state of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine.
The Cinega mine, located in the state of Durango, an underground gold mine: including the San Ramn satellite mine.
The Herradura mine, located in the state of Sonora, a surface gold mine.
The Soledad-Dipolos mine, located in the state of Sonora, a surface gold mine.
The Noche Buena mine, located in state of Sonora, a surface gold mine.
The San Julin mine, located on the border of Chihuahua Durango states, an underground silver-gold mine.
The operating performance and financial results for each of these mines are reviewed by management.
As the Groups chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information.
Management monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purpose of performance assessment and making decisions about resource allocation.
Segment performance is evaluated without taking into account certain adjustments included in Revenue as reported in the consolidated income statement, and certain costs included within cost of sales and gross profit which are considered to be outside of the control ofthe operating management of the mines.
The table below provides a reconciliation from segment profit to gross profit as per the consolidated income statement.
Other income and expenses included in the consolidated income statement are not allocated to operating segments.
Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
In 2018 and 2017, substantially all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 185 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPERATING SEGMENTS The following tables present revenue and profit information regarding the Groups operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2018 and2017, respectively.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2018 include those derived from contracts with costumers and other revenues, as showed in note 4.
Adjustments and eliminations correspond to hedging gains note 4.
2 Segment profit excluding foreign exchange hedging gains, depreciation and amortisation and employee profit sharing.
3 Capital expenditure represents the cash outflow in respect of additions to property, plant and equipment, including mine development, construction of leaching pads, purchase of mine equipment and capitalised stripping activity, excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision.
Significant additions the construction of facilities at San Julin phase II, the second dynamic leaching plant at Herradura and the construction of the Pyrites plant at Saucito.
4 During 2018, this segment did not operate due to the Bajio conflict note 25.
5 Other inter-segment revenue corresponds to leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S. A. fide C. V: capital expenditure mainly corresponds to Minera Juanicipio S. A fide C. V. and Minera Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Year ended 31 December 2017 Adjustments SoledadNoche and 4 5 US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Cinega Dipolos Saucito Buena San Julin Other eliminations Total Revenues: 1 Third party 368,286 605,823 183,689 446,008 214,998 274,504 2,093,308 Inter-Segment 79,907 79,907 Segment revenues 368,286 605,823 183,689 446,008 214,998 274,504 79,907 79,907 2,093,308 2 Segment Profit 252,249 355,570 97,098 2,269 315,196 75,496 174,712 59,878 22,966 1,309,502 Depreciation and amortisation 367,609 Employee profit sharing 16,488 Gross profit as per the income statement 925,405 3 Capital expenditure 111,724 153,200 46,461 133,679 18,748 79,069 61,870 604,751 1 Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$139.9 million.
2 Segment profit excluding depreciation and amortisation and employee profit sharing.
During 2017 there were no foreign exchange hedging losses included in Gross profit.
4 During 2017, this segment did not operate due to the Bajio conflict note 25.
Segment profit is derived from the changes in the net realisable value allowance against inventory note 14.
5 Other inter-segment revenue corresponds to leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S. A. fide C. V: capital expenditure corresponds to Minera Juanicipio S. A fide C. V. 186 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
REVENUES Revenues reflect the sale of goods, being concentrates, dor, slag and precipitates of which the primary contents are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
A REVENUES BY SOURCE Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Revenues from contracts with customers 2,102,694 2,084,048 Revenues from other sources: Provisional pricing adjustment on products sold 491 9,260 Hedging gain on sales 1,582 2,103,785 2,093,308 B REVENUES BY PRODUCT SOLD Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Lead concentrates containing silver, gold, lead and by-products 804,882 832,039 Dor and slag containing gold, silver and by-products 818,067 820,821 Zinc concentrates containing zinc, silver and by-products 249,182 195,837 Precipitates containing gold and silver 231,654 244,611 2,103,785 2,093,308 All lead concentrates, precipitates, dor and slag, were sold to Peoles metallurgical complex, Met-Mex, for smelting and refining.
C VALUE OF METAL CONTENT IN PRODUCTS SOLD For products other than refined silver and gold, invoiced revenues are derived from the value of metal content adjusted by treatment and refining charges incurred by the metallurgical complex of the customer.
The value of the metal content of the products sold, before treatment and refining charges is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silver 815,837 844,815 Gold 1,118,087 1,125,290 Zinc 204,499 161,305 Lead 106,536 101,826 Value of metal content in products sold 2,244,959 2,233,236 Adjustment for treatment and refining charges 141,174 139,928 1 Total revenues 2,103,785 2,093,308 1 Includes provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of trade receivables resulting in a loss of US$0.5 million 2017: gain of US$9.2 million due to changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives arising on provisional pricing in sales contracts and hedging gain of US$1.6 million 2017: nil.
For further detail, refer to note 2 n. The average realised prices for the gold and silver content of products sold, prior to the deduction of treatment and refining charges, were: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ per ounce US$ per ounce 2 Gold 1,269.1 1,267.4 2 Silver 15.5 16.9 2 For the purpose of the calculation, revenue by content of products sold does not include the results from hedging.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 187 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
COST OF SALES Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Depreciation and amortisation notes 2 e and 12 411,764 367,609 Personnel expenses note 7 94,653 89,629 Maintenance and repairs 150,021 115,670 Operating materials 191,954 153,221 Energy 176,333 144,298 Contractors 291,970 233,909 Freight 11,633 10,545 Insurance 4,956 4,786 Mining concession rights and contributions 13,271 11,589 Other 29,680 22,043 Cost of production 1,376,235 1,153,299 1 Change in work in progress and finished goods ore inventories 53,178 16,873 Change in net realisable value allowance against inventory note 14 2,269 1,323,057 1,167,903 1 Refer to note 2 c for more detail related to change in work in progress inventories for the year ended 31 December 2018 following a change in estimations.
EXPLORATION EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Contractors 127,734 105,778 Administrative services 6,734 6,818 Mining concession rights and contributions 23,441 15,056 Personnel expenses note 7 4,137 4,260 Assays 3,615 2,850 Rentals 1,378 2,329 Other 5,760 4,017 172,799 141,108 These exploration expenses were mainly incurred in areas of the Fresnillo, Herradura, La Cinega, Saucito and San Julin mines, the San Ramn satellite mine and Orysivo, Guanajuato, Centauro Deep, San Javier and Carina projects.
In addition, exploration expenses of US$6.3 million 2017: US$8.3 million were incurred in the year on projects located in Peru and Chile.
The following table sets forth liabilities generally trade payables corresponding to exploration activities of the Group companies engaged only in exploration, principally Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Liabilities related to exploration activities 112 1,947 The liabilities related to exploration activities recognised by the Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
Cash flows relating to exploration activities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Operating cash out flows related to exploration activities 174,634 140,804 188 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
PERSONNEL EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Salaries and wages 46,542 39,448 Employees profit sharing 13,003 17,150 Bonuses 12,367 12,112 Statutory healthcare and housing contributions 17,976 16,057 Other benefits 10,682 8,704 Vacations and vacations bonus 2,870 2,636 Social security 2,369 1,862 1 Post-employment benefits 4,026 4,224 Legal contributions 2,190 1,608 Training 3,033 3,834 Other 7,404 8,852 122,462 116,487 1 Post-employment benefits include US$0.6 million associated to benefits corresponding to the defined contribution plan 2017: US$0.4 million.
A PERSONNEL EXPENSES ARE REFLECTED IN THE FOLLOWING LINE ITEMS: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cost of sales note 5 94,653 89,629 Administrative expenses 23,672 20,109 Exploration expenses note 6 4,137 6,749 122,462 116,487 B THE MONTHLY AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES DURING THE YEAR WAS AS FOLLOWS: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 No.
Mining 2,236 1,994 Plant concentration 752 602 Exploration 480 501 Maintenance 1,035 865 Administration and other 658 936 Total 5,161 4,898 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 189 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other income: 1 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 25,333 2 Insurance recovery 9,245 Other 2,458 2,870 11,703 28,203 Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other expenses: Rentals 184 229 3 Maintenance 1,278 1,858 Donations 1,313 2,540 Environmental activities 1,216 1,790 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 999 Consumption tax expensed 655 1,031 Impairment available-for-sale financial assets 36 Other 2,715 3,887 8,360 11,371 1 Mainly corresponds to a sale of a certain mining concession from the Fresnillo district to a third party for a consideration of US$26.0 million, resulting in a gain of US$24.8 million.
2 Corresponds to a partial reimbursement for the insurance claim relating to Saucitos flood see note 26 for further detail.
3 Costs relating to the rehabilitation of the facilities of Compaa Minera las Torres, S. A. fide C. V. a closed mine.
FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance income: Interest on short-term deposits and investments 15,584 11,368 Other 4,788 3,208 20,372 14,576 Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance costs: Interest on interest-bearing loans 36,258 35,808 1 Fair value movement on derivatives 274 41,389 Unwinding of discount on provisions 10,044 11,703 Other 3,434 753 50,010 89,653 1 The 2017 figure principally relates to the time value associated with gold commodity options see note 29 for further detail.
During 2018 this effect was recognised within other comprehensive income see note 2 b.
190 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE A MAJOR COMPONENTS OF INCOME TAX EXPENSE: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated income statement: Corporate income tax Current: Income tax charge 156,715 155,692 Amounts under provided in previous years 11,774 8,676 168,489 164,368 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 52,327 45,003 Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 4,487 34,097 47,840 10,906 Corporate income tax 120,649 153,462 Special mining right Current: 1 Special mining right charge 10,860 19,415 10,860 19,415 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2,455 7,805 Special mining right 13,315 27,220 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 133,964 180,682 1 The special mining right SMR allows the deduction of payments of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payable within the same legal entity.
During the fiscal year ended 31 December 2018, the Group credited US$17.3 million 2017: US$15.7 million of mining concession rights against the SMR.
Total mining concessions rights paid during the year were US$22.2 million 2017: US$16.3 million and have been recognised in the income statement within cost of sales and exploration expenses.
Mining concessions rights paid in excess of the SMR cannot be credited to SMR in future fiscal periods, and therefore no deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to the excess.
Without regards to credits permitted under the SMR regime, the current special mining right charge would have been US$28.1 million 2017: US$35.1 million.
Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Deferred income tax credit charge related to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income: Gain on cash flow hedges recycled to income statement 388 Changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 4,224 Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 20,327 2,653 Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans 415 148 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 15,300 2,801 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 191 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B RECONCILIATION OF THE INCOME TAX EXPENSE AT THE GROUPS STATUTORY INCOME RATE TO INCOME TAX EXPENSE AT THE GROUPS EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATE: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accounting profit before income tax 483,930 741,489 Tax at the Groups statutory corporate income tax rate 30.0% 145,179 222,446 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,454 2,562 Inflationary uplift of the tax base of assets and liabilities 16,599 20,011 Current income tax over underprovided in previous years 4,807 472 1 Exchange rate effect on tax value of assets and liabilities 778 9,934 Non-taxable non-deductible foreign exchange losses 1,255 4,242 Inflationary uplift of tax losses 2,909 5,084 IEPS tax credit note 10 e 7,012 26,181 Deferred tax asset not recognised 6,571 4,461 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax 3,992 8,165 Other 1,287 2,862 Corporate income tax at the effective tax rate of 24.9% 2017: 20.7% 120,649 153,462 Special mining right 13,315 27,220 Tax at the effective income tax rate of 27.6% 2017: 24.4% 133,964 180,682 1 Mainly derived from the tax value of property, plant and equipment.
C MOVEMENTS IN DEFERRED INCOME TAX LIABILITIES AND ASSETS: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net liability 442,727 443,027 Income statement credit arising on corporate income tax 47,840 10,906 Income statement charge arising on special mining right 2,455 7,805 Exchange difference Net credit charge related to items directly charged to other comprehensive income 15,300 2,801 Closing net liability 382,042 442,727 192 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2018 and 2017, considering the nature of the related temporary differences, are as follows: Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Related party receivables 220,131 221,451 1,320 22,270 Other receivables 1,315 2,171 3,486 1,554 Inventories 188,119 162,842 25,277 271 Prepayments 1,035 898 137 923 Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract 150,205 147,535 1,942 12,551 Property, plant and equipment arising from corporate income tax 330,722 341,774 11,052 9,551 Exploration expenses and operating liabilities 50,691 44,121 6,570 19,818 Other payables and provisions 57,303 55,379 1,924 10,646 Losses carried forward 67,059 68,213 1,154 1,870 Post-employment benefits 1,016 1,465 34 220 Deductible profit sharing 3,807 4,249 442 344 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax 29,321 30,661 1,340 1,561 Equity investments at FVOCI 3,510 Available-for-sale financial assets 16,818 2,643 Other 4,396 3,772 624 2,594 Net deferred tax liability related to corporate income tax 304,348 367,489 Deferred tax credit related to corporate income tax 47,840 10,906 Related party receivables arising from special mining right 20,161 21,379 1,218 2,616 Inventories arising from special mining right 13,746 11,107 2,639 2,831 Property plant and equipment arising from special mining right 71,279 64,966 6,312 8,020 Net deferred tax liability 382,042 442,727 Deferred tax credit 45,385 3,101 Reflected in the statement of financial position as follows: Deferred tax assets 88,883 48,950 Deferred tax  operations 470,925 491,677 Net deferred tax liability 382,042 442,727 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
On the basis of managements internal forecast, a deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses amounting to US$223.5 million 2017: US$227.4 million.
If not utilised, US$37.6 million 2017: US$13.7 million will expire within five years and US$185.9 million 2017: US$213.6 million will expire between six and ten years.
The Group has further tax losses and other similar attributes carried forward of US$42.2 million 2017: US$37.4 million on which no deferred tax is recognised due to insufficient certainty regarding the availability of appropriate future taxable profits.
D UNRECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ON INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,430 million 2017: US$1,723 million.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 193 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS E CORPORATE INCOME TAX IMPUESTO SOBRE LA RENTA OR ISR AND SPECIAL MINING RIGHT SMR The Groups principal operating subsidiaries are Mexican residents for taxation purposes.
The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%.
During 2016 the Mexican Internal Revenue Law granted to taxpayers a credit in respect of an excise tax Special Tax on Production and Services, or IEPS for its acronym in Spanish paid when purchasing diesel used for general machinery and certain mining vehicles.
The credit can be applied against either the Groups own corporate income tax or the income tax withheld from third parties.
The credit is calculated on an entity-by-entity basis and expires one year after the purchase of the diesel.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group applied a credit of US$14.9 million in respect of the year 2017: US$23.2 million, which was offset by an adjustment in respect of prior years of US$7.8 million 2017: nil.
Additionally, as at 31 December 2017 the Group recognised a deferred tax asset US$2.9 million in respect of the IEPS incurred in 2017 and expected to be applied during 2018.
As the IEPS deduction is itself taxable, the deferred tax asset is recognised at 70% of the IEPS carried forward.
The net amount applied by the Group is presented in the reconciliation of the effective tax rate in note 10 b.
The SMR states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities and is considered as income tax under IFRS.
The SMR allows as a credit the payment of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payable.
The 7.5% tax applies to a base of income before interest, annual inflation adjustment, taxes paid on the regular activity, depreciation and amortisation, as defined by the new ISR.
This SMR can be credited against the corporate income tax of the same fiscal year and its payment must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
The Company has no dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
As of 31 December 2018 and 2017, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Earnings: Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 349,846 560,578 Adjusted profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 339,377 481,019 Adjusted profit is profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement adjusted to exclude revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract of US$14.9 million gain US$10.4 million net of tax 2017: US$113.6 million gain US$79.5 million net of tax.
Adjusted earnings per share have been provided in order to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument.
2018 2017 thousands thousands Number of shares: Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 736,984 736,894 2018 2017 US$ US$ Earnings per share: Basic and diluted earnings per share 0.475 0.761 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations 0.461 0.653 194 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
2 From the additions in other assets category US$ 4.5 million 2017: US$24.1 million corresponds to the reassessment of mine closure rehabilitations costs, see note 20.
The table below details construction in progress by operating mine Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 88,916 101,885 Herradura 70,536 98,401 Noche Buena 20,834 12,028 Cinega 47,838 29,039 Fresnillo 48,671 30,641 San Julin 64,236 53,383 3 Other 157,137 145,678 498,168 471,055 3 Manly corresponds to Juanicipio development project 2017: Juanicipio development project and Minera Bermejal, S. A. fide C. V.. During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group capitalised US$11.1 million of borrowing costs within construction in progress 2017: US$11.4.
Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 5.78% 2017: 5.78%.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 195 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS As at 31 December 2018 and 2017, the carrying amount of mining assets was fully supported by the higher of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD computation of their recoverable amount.
Value in use and FVLCD was determined based on the net present value of the future estimated cash flows expected to be generated from the continued use of the CGUs.
For both valuation approaches management used long-term price assumptions of US$1,310 ounce and US$19.25 ounce 2017: US$1,300 ounce and US$19 ounce for gold and silver, respectively.
Management considers that the models supporting the carrying amounts are most sensitive to commodity price assumptions and have therefore performed a sensitivity analysis for those CGUs, where a reasonable possible change in prices could lead to impairment.
Management has considered a low sensitivity by decreasing gold and silver prices by 5% 2017: gold and silver 5% and a high sensitivity by decreasing gold and silver prices by 10% and 15% respectively 2017: gold and silver 10%.
As at 31 December 2018 the analysis resulted in an impairment on Herradura of US$302.7 million under high sensitivity: US$72.3 million under low sensitivity and San Julin US$159.3 million under high sensitivity: US$45.4 million under low sensitivity 2017: nil for Herradura and San Julin.
SILVERSTREAM CONTRACT On 31 December 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with Peoles through which it is entitled to receive the proceeds received by the Peoles Group in respect of the refined silver sold from the Sabinas Mine Sabinas, a base metals mine owned and operated by the Peoles Group, for an upfront payment of US$350 million.
In addition, a per ounce cash payment of $2.00 in years one to five and $5.00 thereafter subject to an inflationary adjustment that commenced from 31 December 2013 is payable to Peoles.
The cash payment per ounce for the year ended 31 December 2018 was $5.26 per ounce 2017: $5.20 per ounce.
Under the contract, the Group has the option to receive a net cash settlement from Peoles attributable to the silver produced and sold from Sabinas, to take delivery of an equivalent amount of refined silver or to receive settlement in the form of both cash and silver.
If, by 31 December 2032, the amount of silver produced by Sabinas is less than 60 million ounces, a further payment is due from Peoles of US$1 per ounce of shortfall.
The Silverstream contract represents a derivative financial instrument which has been recorded at FVPL and classified within non-current and current assets as appropriate.
The term of the derivative is based on Sabinas life of mine which is currently 35 years.
Changes in the contracts fair value, other than those represented by the realisation of the asset through the receipt of either cash or refined silver, are charged or credited to the income statement.
In the year ended 31 December 2018 total proceeds received in cash were US$36.3 million 2017: US$43.3 million of which, US$4.9 million was in respect of proceeds receivable as at 31 December 2017 2016: US$5.9 million.
Cash received in respect of the year of US$31.3 million 2017: US$37.3 million corresponds to 3.4 million ounces of payable silver 2017: 3.6 million ounces.
As at 31 December 2018, a further US$3.4 million 2017: US$4.9 million of cash receivable corresponding to 335,914 ounces of silver is due 2017: 422,375 ounces.
The US$15.0 million unrealised gain recorded in the income statement 31 December 2017: US$113.6 million gain resulted mainly from the unwinding of the discount and the updating of the Sabinas long-term mine plan, which were partially compensated by the increase in the LIBOR reference rate and the decrease in the forward silver price.
A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance is shown below: 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 538,887 467,529 Cash received in respect of the year 31,379 37,373 Cash receivable 3,371 4,925 Remeasurement gains recognised in profit and loss 14,956 113,656 Balance at 31 December 519,093 538,887 Less Current portion 20,819 32,318 Non-current portion 498,274 506,569 See note 29 for further information on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 30 for further information relating to market and credit risks associated with the Silverstream asset.
196 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14.
INVENTORIES As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Finished goods 15,052 10,957 2 Work in progress 235,094 175,016 3 Ore stockpile 3,799 15,115 Operating materials and spare parts 87,180 75,331 341,125 276,419 Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories 6,101 5,314 Balance as 31 December at lower of cost and net realisable value 335,024 271,105 Less Current portion 243,404 179,485 4 Non-current portion 91,620 91,620 1 Finished goods include metals contained in concentrates and dor bars, and concentrates on hand or in transit to a smelter or refinery.
2 Work in progress includes metals contained in ores on leaching pads note 2 c. 3 Ore stockpile includes ore mineral obtained during the development phase at San Julin.
4 The non-current inventories are expected to be processed more than 12 months from the reporting date.
Concentrates are a product containing sulphides with variable content of precious and base metals and are sold to smelters and or refineries.
Dor is an alloy containing a variable mixture of gold and silver that is delivered in bar form to refineries.
This content once processed by the smelter and refinery is sold to customers in the form of refined products.
The amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the year was US$1,323.1 million 2017: US$1,170.1 million before changes to the net realisable value of inventory.
During the year there was no adjustment to net realisable value allowance against work-inprogress inventory 2017: US$2.2 million decrease.
The adjustment to the allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventory recognised as an expense was US$0.8 million 2017: US$1.04 million.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands 5 Trade and other receivables from related parties note 26 213,292 226,134 Value Added Tax receivable 182,290 85,979 Other receivables from related parties note 26 3,371 4,925 Other receivables from contractors 2,755 21,292 Other receivables 10,306 4,612 412,014 342,942 Provision for impairment of other receivables 857 436 Trade and other receivables classified as current assets 411,157 342,506 Other receivables classified as non-current assets: Loans granted to contractors 129 129 411,157 342,635 5 As of 31 December 2017 trade receivables from related parties includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$6.5 million.
Trade receivables are shown net of any corresponding advances, are non-interest bearing and generally have payment terms of 46 to 60 days.
The total receivables denominated in US$ were US$223.1 million 2017: US$242.3 million, and in Mexican pesos US$187.2 million 2017: US$100.3 million.
As of 31 December for each year presented, with the exception of other receivables in the table above, all trade and other receivables were neither past due nor impaired.
The amount past due and considered as impaired as of 31 December 2018 is US$0.9 million 2017: US$0.4 million.
In determining the recoverability of receivables, the Group performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and thecredit worthiness of the counterparty, see note 30 b. Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 197 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS The Group considers cash and cash equivalents when planning its operations and in order to achieve its treasury objectives.
As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 2,125 4,265 Short-term deposits 558,660 871,769 Cash and cash equivalents 560,785 876,034 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM Authorised share capital of the Company is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 Class of share Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary Shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of 1.00 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 Issued share capital of the Company is as follows: Ordinary Shares Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares Number US$ Number At 1 January 2017 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 50,000 At 31 December 2017 736,893,589 $368, 545,586 50,000 50,000 At 31 December 2018 736,893,589 $368, 545,586 50,000 50,000 As at 31 December 2018 and 2017, all issued shares with a par value of US$0.50 each are fully paid.
The rights and obligations attached to these shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary shares.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares ata price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares.
Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferable.
RESERVES SHARE PREMIUM This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
CAPITAL RESERVE The capital reserve arose as a consequence of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation as a result of using the pooling of interest method.
HEDGING RESERVE This reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge, net of tax.
When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or the loss is transferred out of equity to the income statement or the value of other assets.
198 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
EQUITY CONTINUED COST OF HEDGING RESERVE The changes in the time value of option contracts are accumulated in the costs of hedging reserve.
These deferred costs of hedging are either reclassified to profit or loss or recognised as a basis adjustment to non-financial assets or liabilities upon maturity of the hedged item, or, in the case of a hedge item that realises over time, amortised on a systematic and rational basis over the life of the hedged item.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS RESERVE As at 31 December 2017 this reserve recorded fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax.
On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value were recycled to the income statement.
These assets were reclassified upon adoption of IFRS 9, for further detail see note 2 b.
FAIR VALUE RESERVE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVOCI The Group has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in OCI, as explained in note 2 b.
These changes are accumulated within the FVOCI reserve within equity.
The Group transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earnings when the relevant equity securities are derecognised.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION RESERVE The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of entities with a functional currency different to that of the presentational currency of the Group.
RETAINED EARNINGS ACCUMULATED LOSSES This reserve records the accumulated results of the Group, less any distributions and dividends paid.
DIVIDENDS DECLARED AND PAID The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 are as follows: US cents per Amount Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2018 1 Final dividend for 2017 declared and paid during the year 29.8 219,594 2 Interim dividend for 2018 declared and paid during the year 10.7 78,848 40.5 298,442 Year ended 31 December 2017 3 Final dividend for 2016 declared and paid during the year 21.5 158,432 4 Interim dividend for 2017 declared and paid during the year 10.6 78,111 32.1 236,543 1 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 30 May 2018 and paid on 4 June 2018.
2 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 September 2018 and paid on 7 September 2018.
3 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2017 and paid on 26 May 2017.
4 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 31 July 2017 and paid on 8 September 2017.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS SENIOR NOTES On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of US$800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 the Notes.
Movements in the year in the debt recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 799,046 798,027 Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 5 Interest paid 46,267 46,267 Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 1,081 1,019 Closing balance 800,127 799,046 5 Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 199 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group has the following restrictions derived from the issuance of the Notes: CHANGE OF CONTROL: Should the rating of the Senior Notes be downgraded as a result of a change of control defined as the sale or transfer of 35% or more of the common shares: the transfer of all or substantially all the assets of the Group: starting a dissolution or liquidation process: or the loss of the majority in the board of directors the Group is obligated to repurchase the notes at an equivalent price of 101% of their nominal value plus the interest earnt at the repurchase date, if requested to do so by any creditor.
PLEDGE ON ASSETS: The Group shall not pledge or allow a pledge on any property that may have a material impact on business performance key assets.
Nevertheless, the Group may pledge the aforementioned properties provided that the repayment of the Notes keeps the same level of priority as the pledge on those assets.
PROVISION FOR MINE CLOSURE COST The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the estimated date of depletion of mine deposits.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning, dismantling, reclamation alternatives, timing, and the discount, foreign exchange and inflation rates applied.
The Group has performed separate calculations of the provision by currency, discounting at corresponding rates.
As at 31 December 2018, the discount rates used in the calculation of the parts of the provision that relate to Mexican pesos range from 7.12% to 8.55% 2017: range of 6.27% to 7.97%.
The range for the current year parts that relate to US dollars range from 2.05% to 2.70% 2017: range of 1.37% to 2.22%.
Mexican regulations regarding the decommissioning and rehabilitation of mines are limited and less developed in comparison to regulations in many other jurisdictions.
It is the Groups intention to rehabilitate the mines beyond the requirements of Mexican law, and estimated costs reflect this level of expense.
The Group intends to fully rehabilitate the affected areas at the end of the life of the mines.
The provision is expected to become payable at the end of the production life of each mine, based on the reserves and resources, which ranges from 3 to 25 years from 31 December 2018 3 to 27 years from 31 December 2017.
As at 31 December 2018 the weighted average term of the provision is 12 years 2017:13 years.
As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 184,775 149,109 Increase to existing provision 9,758 1,024 Effect of change in estimation 19,678 Effect of changes in discount rate 14,279 281 Unwinding of discount 10,065 11,729 Payments 545 131 Foreign exchange 68 3,647 Closing balance 189,842 184,775 21.
PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLANS The Group has a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit plan.
The defined contribution plan was established as from 1 July 2007 and consists of periodic contributions made by each non-unionised worker and contributions made by the Group to the fund matching workers contributions, capped at 8% of the employees annual salary.
The defined benefit plan provides pension benefits based on each workers earnings and years of services provided by personnel hired through 30 June 2007 as well as statutory seniority premiums for both unionised and non-unionised workers.
The overall investment policy and strategy for the Groups defined benefit plan is guided by the objective of achieving an investment return which, together with contributions, ensures that there will be sufficient assets to pay pension benefits and statutory seniority premiums for non-unionised workers as they fall due while also mitigating the various risks of the plan.
However, the portion of the plan related to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers is not funded.
The investment strategies for the plan are generally managed under local laws and regulations.
The actual asset allocation is determined by current and expected economic and market conditions and in consideration of specific asset class risk in the risk profile.
Within this framework, the Group ensures that the trustees consider how the asset investment strategy correlates with the maturity profile of the plan liabilities and the respective potential impact on the funded status of the plan, including potential short-term liquidity requirements.
Death and disability benefits are covered through insurance policies.
200 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21.
PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLANS CONTINUED The following tables provide information relating to changes in the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets: Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains losses in OCI Return on plan assets Actuarial Actuarial Defined excluding changes changes benefit amounts arising from arising from increase Balance at Sub-total included changes in changes in Sub-total due to Balance at 1 January Service Net Foreign recognised Benefits in net demographic financial Experience Foreign included Contributions personnel 31 December 2018 cost Interest Exchange in the year paid interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange in OCI by employer transfer 2018 US$ thousands Defined benefit obligation 27,327 62 1,791 5 1,848 884 1,749 821 2,570 25,721 Fair value of plan assets 18,110 1,110 27 1,137 630 40 40 614 57 19,328 Net benefit liability 9,217 62 681 32 711 254 40 1,749 821 2,610 614 57 6,393 Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains losses in OCI Return on plan assets Actuarial Actuarial Defined excluding changes changes benefit amounts arising from arising from increase Balance at Sub-total included changes in changes in Sub-total due to Balance at 1 January Service Net Foreign recognised Benefits in net demographic financial Experience Foreign included Contributions personnel 31 December 2017 cost Interest Exchange in the year paid interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange in OCI by employer transfer 2017 US$ thousands Defined benefit obligation 25,377 956 1,729 1,146 3,831 883 515 498 1,013 15 27,327 Fair value of plan assets 16,282 1,031 731 1,762 413 80 80 422 137 18,110 Net benefit liability 9,095 956 698 415 2,069 470 80 515 498 933 422 122 9,217 Of the total defined benefit obligation, US$7.4 million 2017: US$7.5 million relates to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers which are not funded.
The expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period are nil.
The principal assumptions used in determining pension and other post-employment benefit obligations for the Groups plans are shown below: As at 31 December 2018 2017 % % Discount rate 8.42 7.67 Future salary increases NCPI 5.15 5.0 The life expectancy of current and future pensioners, men and women aged 65 and older will live on average for a further 23.1 and 26.6 years respectively 2017: 23.1 years for men and 26.3 for women.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 10.8 years 2017: 11 years.
The fair values of the plan assets were as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Government debt 351 556 State owned companies 5,132 4,559 Mutual funds fixed rates 13,845 12,995 19,328 18,110 The pension plan has not invested in any of the Groups own financial instruments nor in properties or assets used by the Group.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 201 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 December 2018 is as shown below: Future salary increases Life expectancy of Assumptions Discount rate NCPI pensioners 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 1 Sensitivity Level Increase Decrease increase decrease Increase Decrease increase to the net defined benefit obligation US$ thousands 1,256 1,374 179 173 76 The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on net defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
The pension plan is not sensitive to future changes in salaries other than in respect of inflation.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade payables 91,734 93,664 Other payables to related parties note 26 12,321 9,057 Accrued expenses 13,163 18,600 Other taxes and contributions 15,922 13,628 133,140 134,949 Trade payables are mainly for the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractor services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 30.
COMMITMENTS A summary of capital expenditure commitments by operating mine is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 52,288 64,511 Herradura 17,701 28,813 Noche Buena 3,346 1,643 Cinega 13,779 16,688 Fresnillo 90,181 19,570 San Julin 8,781 27,403 1 Other 142,111 83,729 328,187 242,357 1 Other includes commitments of Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. 2017: Minera Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. and Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. 202 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24.
OPERATING LEASES A OPERATING LEASES AS LESSOR Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 491 After one year but not more than five years 108 599 B OPERATING LEASES AS LESSEE The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for land, offices and equipment.
These leases have renewal terms at the option of the lessee with future lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
The Group has put in place several arrangements to finance mine equipment through loans and the sale of mine equipment to contractors.
In both cases, contractors are obligated to use these assets in rendering services to the Group as part of the mining work contract, during the term of financing or credit, which ranges from two to six years.
The Group considers that the related mining work contracts contain embedded operating leases.
1 The future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows : As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 6,374 3,424 After one year but not more than five years 9,756 2,926 16,130 6,350 As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Minimum lease payments expensed in the year 7,193 4,916 1 During the Groups IFRS 16 implementation activities, a limited number of highly certain extensions to operating lease commitments were identified.
The 2017 commitments have been restated to reflect those judgements in a consistent manner.
CONTINGENCIES As of 31 December 2018, the Group has the following contingencies: The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities SAT, by its Spanish acronym in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of corporate income tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, the reviews may cover longer periods.
As such, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future.
Other than discussed below, tax inspections that had been initiated by the SAT in previous years, were either closed or resolved through a Conclusive Agreement in 2018 or in early 2019.
According to article 69-H of the Mexican Tax Code, settlements reached and executed by taxpayers and the authority may not be challenged in any way.
Such settlements shall only be effective between the parties: and they shall not constitute a precedent in any case.
With respect to Minera Penmonts 2012 and 2013 tax inspections, on 11 July, 2018 the Company filed before tax authorities a substance administrative appeal against the tax assessment, and on 3 September 2018, it filed additional documentation before tax authorities and is waiting for its response.
On 22 October 2018 we were notified of the SATs findings in respect of Minera Penmonts 2015 & 2016 tax inspections.
The Company considers it completed the provision of all documentation required to demonstrate that the tax deductions which are being challenged, are appropriate and is waiting for the SATs response.
On 1 February 2019 we were notified that the SAT will conduct an inspection of Minera Saucitos 2013 tax certificate.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome arising from these or any future inspections that may be initiated.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 203 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta o CUFIN account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
On 30 November 2012, the Mexican government enacted a new federal labour law.
During 2014 management implemented certain actions as a part of an ongoing process in order to manage the exposure resulting from the issuance of the new labour law including any potential impacts on the operations and financial position of the Group, however management does not expect any potential contingency or significant effect on the Groups financial statements as at 31 December 2018 and going forward.
In regard to the ejido El Bajio matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009 five members of the El Bajio agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont Penmont, submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court Tribunal Unitario Agrario of Hermosillo, Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land.
The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of the Soledad-Dipolos mine are located.
The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land.
The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
The Agrarian Court noted in that same year that certain remediation activities were necessary to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency SEMARNAT in this respect.
The Agrarian Court further issued a procedural order in execution of its ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmonts occupation.
In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order was excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appeared not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits.
In December 2016, the Agrarian Court issued a subsequent procedural order in which the Court recognised that Penmont complied with the agrarian ruling by having returned the land in dispute and, furthermore, that remediation activities are to be conducted in accordance with Federal environmental guidelines and regulations, as supervised by the competent Federal authorities.
Remediation activities in this respect are pending as the agrarian members have not yet permitted Penmont physical access to the lands.
Penmont has already presented a conceptual mine closure and remediation plan before the Agrarian Court in respect of the approximately 300 hectares where Penmont conducted mining activities.
The agrarian community Ejido El Bajio appealed this procedural order from the Agrarian Court and a Federal District Court denied this appeal.
The agrarian community has presented in the month of August 2017 a further and last recourse against this ruling by the Federal District Court and the final result is pending.
In addition, and as also previously reported by the Company, claimants in the El Bajio matter presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above.
Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont.
As previously reported, the Agrarian Court issued rulings declaring such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmonts occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area.
Given that Penmont has not conducted significant mining operations nor has specific geological interest in these land parcels, any contingency relating to such land parcels is not considered material by the Company.
The case relating to the claims over these land parcels remains subject to finalisation.
Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajio matter.
There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings.
In 2011, flooding occurred in the Saucito mine, following which the Group filed an insurance claim in respect of the damage caused and in respect of business interruption.
In early 2018, the insurance provider notified the Group that the claim had been accepted: however, there is disagreement about the appropriate amount to be paid.
In October the Group received US$13.6 million in respect of the insurance claim, however this does not constitute a final settlement and management continues to pursue a higher insurance reimbursement.
Due to the fact that negotiations are on-going and there is uncertainty regarding the timing of reaching an agreement with the insurer, the amount expected to be recovered is currently not practicable to determine.
204 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED On 11 February 2019, the Supreme Court of Mexico issued a ruling regarding a specific constitutional issue presented by the former administration of the Federal Government, who challenged the ability of the State of Zacatecas to impose environmental taxes on aspects such as i extraction of rocks: ii emissions into the air: iii discharges of industrial residues, and iv disposal of industrial waste.
The ruling of the Supreme Court establishes that, from a constitutional point of view, there is no express limitation granting the Mexican State at a Federal level the sole power to impose such taxes: therefore, the State of Zacatecas has a joint right to create these taxes.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Court did not exhaust the analysis of the legality of each particular tax created by the State of Zacatecas.
The Company had previously challenged the legality of such taxes and in 2017 obtained an injunction from a Federal court.
The State of Zacatecas has appealed this ruling and the final result is pending.
RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS The Group had the following related party transactions during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 and balances as at 31 December 2018 and 2017.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party, as well as those who have a minority participation in Group companies and key management personnel of the Group.
A RELATED PARTY BALANCES Accounts receivable Accounts payable As at 31 December As at 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade: Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 213,202 225,741 408 397 Other: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 3,371 4,925 Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 3,249 2,434 Servicios Especializados Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 1,556 1,786 Fuentes fide Energa Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 1,138 Termoelctrica Peoles, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 988 1,650 Elica fide Coahuila S. A. fide C. V. 3,459 1,926 Other 90 392 1,523 864 Sub-total 216,663 231,058 12,321 9,057 Less-current portion 216,663 231,058 12,321 9,057 Non-current portion Related party accounts receivable and payable will be settled in cash.
Other balances with related parties: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silverstream contract: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 519,093 538,887 The Silverstream contract can be settled in either silver or cash.
Details of the Silverstream contract are provided in note 13.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 205 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES, INCLUDING INDUSTRIAS PEOLES S. A.
B fide C. V. THE COMPANYS PARENT, ARE AS FOLLOWS: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: 1 Sales: Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 2,119,758 2,101,579 Insurance recovery 2 Grupo Nacional Provincial, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 13,652 Other income 4,419 3,173 Total income 2,137,829 2,104,752 1 Figures do not include hedging gains as the derivative transactions are not undertaken with related parties.
Figures are net of the adjustment for treatment and refining charges of US$141.2 million 2017: US$139.9 million and include sales credited to development projects of US$17.6 million 2017: US$8.3 million.
2 Includes a time value element of US$ 3.1 million which has been recognised in finance income within the income statement.
Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: 3 Administrative services : 4 Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 28,625 26,323 Servicios Especializados Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 15,830 18,239 44,455 44,562 Energy: Termoelctrica Peoles, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 17,383 20,415 Fuerza Elica del Istmo S. A. fide C. V. 2,187 1,678 Fuentes fide Energa Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 3,872 Elica fide Coahuila S. A. fide C. V. 34,147 13,666 57,589 35,759 Operating materials and spare parts: Wideco Inc 5,783 4,534 Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 8,329 6,420 14,112 10,954 Equipment repair and administrative services: Serviminas, S. A. fide C. V. 9,733 8,406 Insurance premiums: Grupo Nacional Provincial, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 8,603 8,157 Other expenses: 2,561 3,795 Total expenses 137,053 111,633 3 Includes US$1.7 million 2017: US$6.4 million corresponding to expenses reimbursed.
4 Includes US$4.2 million 2017: US$7.5 million relating to engineering costs that were capitalised.
206 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED C COMPENSATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL OF THE GROUP Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee.
Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Salaries and bonuses 3,260 3,385 Post-employment benefits 245 235 Other benefits 249 373 Total compensation paid in respect of key management personnel 3,754 3,993 Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement 4,001 4,433 This compensation includes amounts paid to directors disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement represents benefits accrued at the time the benefits were frozen.
There are no further benefits accruing under the defined benefit scheme in respect of current services.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION Fees due by the Group to its auditor during the year ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 Class of services US$ thousands US$ thousands Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 1,306 1,214 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services as follows: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 176 226 Audit-related assurance services 347 308 Tax compliance services 4 19 Total 1,833 1,767 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 207 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 2018 2017 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 349,966 560,807 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation and amortisation 5 411,764 367,609 Employee profit sharing 7 13,003 17,150 Deferred income tax 10 45,385 3,101 Current income tax expense 10 179,349 183,783 Loss gain on the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 8 999 25,333 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 8 36 Net finance costs 27,433 33,674 Foreign exchange loss 8,382 11,434 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 62 58 Non-cash movement on derivatives 34 41,389 Changes in fair value of Silverstream 14 14,956 113,656 Working capital adjustments Increase in trade and other receivables 60,384 44,381 Increase in prepayments and other assets 11,753 708 Increase decrease in inventories 63,918 5,745 Increase in trade and other payables 8,174 36,426 Cash generated from operations 802,770 1,070,816 Income tax paid 200,088 292,063 Employee profit sharing paid 14,323 17,282 Net cash from operating activities 588,359 761,471 29.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A FAIR VALUE CATEGORY As at 31 December 2018 US$ thousands Fair value Amortised Fair value through hedging Fair value through Financial assets: cost OCI instruments profit or loss Trade and other receivables note 15 1,986 216,573 Equity instruments at FVOCI 78,219 Silverstream contract note 13 519,093 Derivative financial instruments 314 Fair value Amortised hedging Fair value through Financial liabilities: cost instruments profit or loss Interest-bearing loans note 19 800,127 Trade and other payables note 22 97,169 Derivative financial instruments 3,807 208 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED As at 31 December 2017 US$ thousands At fair value Available-for-sale Loans At fair value through profit investments at fair and through OCI cash Financial assets: or loss value through OCI receivables flow hedges 1 Trade and other receivables note 15 236,859 Available-for-sale financial assets 144,856 Silverstream contract note 13 538,887 1 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts note 4 6,511 Derivative financial instruments 311 71 At fair value At fair value through profit or At amortised through OCI cash Financial liabilities: loss Cost flow hedges Interest-bearing loans note 19 799,046 Trade and other payables note 22 102,721 Derivative financial instruments 37 19,179 1 Trade and other receivables and embedded derivative within sales contracts are presented net in Trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
B FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Trade receivables 216,573 236,859 216,573 236,859 Equity instruments at FVOCI 78,219 78,219 Available-for-sale financial assets 144,856 144,856 Silverstream contract note 13 519,093 538,887 519,093 538,887 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 6,511 6,511 Derivative financial instruments 74 382 74 382 Financial liabilities: 2 Interest-bearing loans note 19 800,127 799,046 817,936 878,864 Derivative financial instruments 3,807 19,216 3,807 19,216 2 Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 209 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2018 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Trade receivables 216,573 216,573 Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts note 29 c 240 240 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 74 74 Silverstream contract 519,093 519,093 Other financial assets: Equity instruments at FVOCI 78,219 78,219 78,219 314 735,666 814,199 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts note 29 c 3,660 3,660 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 147 147 3,807 3,807 As of 31 December 2017 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 6,511 6,511 Option commodity contracts note 29 c 71 71 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 311 311 Silverstream contract 538,887 538,887 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 144,856 144,856 144,856 382 545,398 690,636 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Option commodity contracts note 29 c 19,179 19,179 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 37 37 19,216 19,216 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
210 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED A reconciliation of the opening balance to the closing balance for Level 3 financial instruments other than Silverstream which is 1 disclosed in note 13 is shown below : 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 225,741 2,750 Net change in trade receivable from goods sold 12,048 Changes in fair value 4,016 15,068 Realised embedded derivatives during the year 3,525 5,807 Balance at 31 December 213,202 6,511 1 Balance as at 31 December 2017 corresponds to the embedded derivative included in trade receivable for sales subject to provisional pricing: from 1 January 2018 onwards as a result of the adoption of IFRS 9 as explained in note 2 b the balance corresponds the whole trade receivable for sales subject to provisional pricing.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: OPTION AND FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The foreign currency forward Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies.
The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency.
OPTION COMMODITY CONTRACTS The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The option commodity Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities.
The option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity.
SILVERSTREAM CONTRACT The fair value of the Silverstream contract is determined using a valuation model including unobservable inputs Level 3.
This derivative has a term of over 20 years and the valuation model utilises a number of inputs that are not based on observable market data due to the nature of these inputs and or the duration of the contract.
Inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are the volume ofsilver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine over the contract life, the future price of silver, future foreign exchange rates between the Mexican peso and US dollar, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
The estimate of the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine requires estimates of the recoverable silver reserves and resources, the related production profile based on the Sabinas mine plan and the expected recovery of silver from ore mined.
The estimation of these inputs is subject to a range of operating assumptions and may change over time.
Estimates of reserves and resources are updated annually by Peoles, the operator and sole interest holder in the Sabinas mine and provided to the Company.
The production profile and estimated payable silver that will be recovered from ore mined is based on the latest plan and estimates, also provided to the Company by Peoles.
The inputs assume no interruption in production over the life of the Silverstream contract and production levels which are consistent with those achieved in recent years.
Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs described above, and determines their impact on the total fair value.
The significant unobservable inputs are not interrelated.
The fair value of the Silverstream is not significantly sensitive to a reasonable change in future exchange rates, however, it is to a reasonable change in future silver price, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
For further information relating to the Silverstream contract see note13.
The sensitivity of the valuation to the inputs relating to market risks, being the price of silver, foreign exchange rates, inflation and the discount rate isdisclosed in note 30.
EQUITY INVESTMENTS: The fair value of equity investments is derived from quoted market prices in active markets Level 1.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS The fair value of the Groups interest-bearing loan, is derived from quoted market prices in active markets Level 1.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 211 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRADE RECEIVABLES: Sales of concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are provisionally priced and revenue is initially recognised using this provisional price and the Groups best estimate of the contained metal.
Revenue is subject to final price and metal content adjustments subsequent to the date of delivery see note 2 n. This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and therefore the entire related trade receivable is measured at fair value.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal content is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the relevant sales contract.
The selling price of metals can be reliably measured as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges but the estimated metal content is a non-observable input to this valuation.
C DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group enters into certain option contracts to manage its exposure to commodity price risk as described in note 2 r. The Group sells gold as the primary product of the Groups open-pit mines.
Upon the acquisition of the remaining 46% interest in the Penmont mines in 2014, the Group entered into commodity option contracts to protect the value of future sales related to that previous non-controlling interest over a period of five years.
The Group also sells lead and zinc as a by-product in certain of its mines.
Except in relation to the acquisition of the remaining in interest in the Penmont mines described above, the Groups risk management strategy is to not hedge primary metal prices and hedge by-product metals in certain market conditions.
The Group monitors metal price volatility in order to determine when to enter into new hedging contracts related to by-products.
New contracts were entered into in 2017 but not in 2018.
These contracts are expected to reduce the volatility attributable to metals price fluctuations.
Hedging the price volatility of forecast metals sales is in accordance with the risk management strategy outlined by the Board of Directors.
There is an economic relationship between the hedged items and the hedging instruments as the terms of the commodity option contracts match the terms of the expected highly probable forecast sales i. e. notional amount and expected payment date.
The Group has established a hedge ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the underlying risks of the commodity option contracts are identical to the hedged risk components.
To test the hedge effectiveness, the Group uses the hypothetical derivative method and compares the changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments against the changes in fair value of the hedged items attributable to the hedged risks.
Due to the terms of the Groups hedge relationships, the change in the fair value of both the hedging instrument and hedged items equalled the amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in the following paragraphs.
The amounts recycled to the income statement in respect of these contracts are recognised in revenue: ineffectiveness is recognised in finance cost.
GOLD OPTION CONTRACTS As at 31 December 2018, the outstanding collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 31 January 2019 to 30 December 2019 and hedge cash proceeds for the sales of gold production amounting 346,152 ounces 2017: 712,584 ounces with a floor price of US$1,100:1 ounce, a range of capped prices from US$1,375 to US$1,495:1 ounce 2017: US$1,375 to US$1,495:1 ounce and weighted average capped price of US$1,424:1 ounce 2017: US$1,423 :1 ounce.
The fair value of the put options as at 31 December 2018 was an asset of US$0.9 million 2017: US$3.7 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2018 was a liability of US$4.6 million 2017:US$21.8 million.
In 2018 the changes in the fair value of the option contracts corresponding to the time value amounted to US$14.4 million and was recorded in other comprehensive income: in 2017 fair value amounted of US$41.1 million was recorded in the income statement.
LEAD OPTION CONTRACTS As at 31 December 2018 there were no outstanding options related to lead contracts.
As at 31 December 2017, lead collar derivative instruments hedge lead production amounting 21,168 tonnes with a floor price of US$2,370:1 tonne, a range of capped prices from US$2,730 to US$2,740:1 tonne and weighted average cap price of US$2,735:1 tonne.
The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2017 was an asset of US$0.5 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2017 was a liability of US$0.5 million.
The gain recycled to the income statement in the period was US$1.0 million 2017: nil.
ZINC OPTION CONTRACTS As at 31 December 2018 there were no outstanding options related to zinc contracts.
As at 31 December 2017, zinc collar derivative instruments hedge lead production amounting 5,760 tonnes with a range of floor prices of US$2,500 to 2,756:1 tonne and weighted average floor price of US$2,591:1 tonne, a range of capped prices from US$3,650 to US$3,800:1 tonne and weighted average cap price of US$3,716:1 tonne.
The fair value of the put options at 31 December 2017 was an asset of US$0.5 million, and the fair value of the call options at 31 December 2017 was a liability of US$1.5 million.
The gain recycled to the income statement in the period was US$0.6 million 2017: nil.
212 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade receivables, cash, equity instruments at FVOCI, interest-bearing loans andtradepayables.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Market risk, including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes forassessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
A MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
In the following tables, the effect on equity excludes the changes in retained earnings as a direct result of changes in profit beforetax.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK The Group has financial instruments that are denominated in Mexican peso, euro and Swedish krona which are exposed to foreign currency risk.
Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar include the purchase of services, fixed assets, spare parts andthe payment of dividends.
As a result, the Group has financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican Peso.
In order to manage the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk on expenditure denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, the Group has entered into certain forward and option derivative contracts with maturity dates from 2018 see note 29 for additional detail.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods for the purposes of calculating thesensitivity with relation to derivative financial instruments.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening decrease Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands 2018 10% 380 10% 464 2017 20% 3,783 10% 1,365 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 213 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2018 10% 19 10% 20 2017 10% 335 10% 500 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the euro on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening decrease Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands 2018 10% 53 10% 52 2017 10% 1058 10% 1,056 FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK SILVERSTREAM Future foreign exchange rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of theSilverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in the Mexican peso as compared to the US dollar, with all other inputs to theSilverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods inthe valuation model.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2018 10% 46 10% 56 2017 20% 781 10% 521 COMMODITY RISK The Group has exposure to changes in metals prices specifically silver, gold, lead and zinc which have a significant effect on the Groups results.
These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles.
The Group uses derivative instruments to hedge against an element of gold, zinc and lead price.
The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in commodities prices, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity shown in the table below relates to changes in fair value of commodity derivatives financial instruments contracts and embedded derivatives in sales.
Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Increase decrease in commodity prices increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands US$ thousands 2018 10% 15% 25% 20% 22,330 14,910 10% 15% 20% 15% 21,204 8,703 2017 10% 10% 20% 15% 83,433 19,164 10% 10% 20% 15% 5,105 1,818 214 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED COMMODITY PRICE RISK SILVERSTREAM Future silver price is one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in future silver prices, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
Itisassumed that the same percentage change in silver price is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
There is no impact on theGroups equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit before tax: Increase increase decrease in decrease Year ended 31 December silver price US$ thousands 2018 15% 106,879 15% 106,879 2017 10% 72,779 10% 72,779 INTEREST RATE RISK The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally relating to the cash balances and the Silverstream contract held at the balance sheet date.
Interest-bearing loans are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value but not its carrying amount.
Therefore, interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are excluded from the table below.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date.
There is no impact on the Groups equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2018 75 4,206 75 4,206 2017 90 7,898 50 4,388 The sensitivity shown in the table above primarily relates to the full year of interest on cash balances held as at the year end.
INTEREST RATE RISK SILVERSTREAM Future interest rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in interest rate is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
There is no impact on the Groups equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2018 75 47,151 75 54,775 2017 90 58,798 50 37,935 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 215 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFLATION RATE RISK INFLATION RATE RISK-SILVERSTREAM Future inflation rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract to a reasonably possible change in the inflation rate, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in inflation is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
There is no impact on the Groups equity, other than theequivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in inflation rate US$ thousands 2018 100 56 100 51 2017 100 88 100 83 EQUITY PRICE RISK The Group has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale financial assets.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale financial assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Groups profit before tax and equity: Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Increase increase increase decrease decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in equity price US$ thousands US$ thousands 2018 40% 31,288 40% 31,288 2017 40% 28,972 65% 65,408 B CREDIT RISK Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The financial assets are trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, the Silverstream contract  financial assets.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties failure to honour their obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counter party.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties with what the Group considers to have an appropriate credit rating.
As disclosed in note 26, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties.
At each balance sheet date, the Groups financial assets were neither impaired nor past due, other than Other receivables as disclosed in note 16.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses from foreign currency hedging contracts.
The Companys foreign currency hedging contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Group has a high concentration of trade receivables with one counterparty Met-Mex Peoles, the Groups primary customer throughout 2018 and 2017.
A further concentration of credit risk arises from the Silverstream contract.
Both Met-Mex and the counterparty to the Silverstream contract are subsidiaries in the Peoles group which currently owns 75 per cent of the shares of the Company and is considered by management to be ofappropriate credit rating.
The Groups surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. which manages cash and cash equivalents, including short-term investments investing inanumber of financial institutions.
Accordingly, on an ongoing basis the Group deposits surplus funds with a range of financial institutions, depending on market conditions.
In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Group only deposits surplus funds with financial institutions with a credit rating of MX-1 Moodys and mxA-1 Standard and Poors and above.
As at 31December 2018, the Group had concentrations of credit risk as 19 percent of surplus funds were deposited with one financial institution of which the total investment was held in short term Mexican governmentpaper.
The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes.
See note 16 for the maximum credit exposure to cash and cash equivalents, note 27 for related party balances with Met-Mex and note 29 for equity instruments at FVOCI.
The maximum credit exposure with relation to the Silverstream contract is the value of the derivative as at 31December 2018, being US$519.1 million 2017: US$538.9 million.
216 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED C LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2018 Interest-bearing loans note 19 46,267 92,534 92,534 800,000 1,031,335 Trade and other payables 97,169 97,169 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 3,807 3,807 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 Interest-bearing loans note 19 46,267 92,534 92,534 846,267 1,077,602 Trade and other payables 102,311 102,311 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 4,992 14,224 19,216 The payments disclosed for financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows.
However, those amounts maybe settled gross or net.
The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2018 Inflows 12,608 4,310 16,918 Outflows 12,688 4,290 16,977 Net 80 20 60 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 Inflows 15,174 15,174 Outflows 14,884 14,884 Net 290 290 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from currency option contracts which the Group expects to be exercised during 2019 as at 31 December 2018 and during 2018 as at 31 December 2017, either by the Group or counterparty.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 217 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support itsbusiness and maximise shareholder value.
Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, including loans from related parties, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains or losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-for-sale financial assets.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Group management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The Groups dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows, including cash flows from the Silverstream.
In managing its capital, the Group considers its cash and other liquid asset position, as set out below: 2018 2017 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash and cash equivalents note 16 560,785 876,034 Available-for-sale financial instruments held in funds 19,877 Cash and other liquid assets position 560,785 895,911
