Financial statements Shareholder and Company information Shareholder information Company information Receiving shareholder information by email: Directors Solicitors Executive Directors Freshfields Bruckhaus You can opt to receive shareholder information from us by Deringer LLP S Desai CBE Co-founder, email rather than by post.
We will then email you whenever we 65 Fleet Street Chief Executive Officer add shareholder communications to the Company website.
To London EC4Y 1HS S R Glithero Chief set this up, please visit www.
co. uk and register for Financial Officer electronic communications e-comms.
Registrars Equiniti Limited Non-Executive Directors If you subsequently wish to change this instruction or revert to Aspect House receiving documents or information by post, you can do so by A D Learoyd Chairman Spencer Road contacting the Companys registrars at the address shown in J E Daniels Lancing the Company Information opposite.
"You can also change your G Gopalan West Sussex BN99 6DA communication method back to post by logging in to your C J Keers Shareview account and going to ""update my communication H W Nelis Brokers preferences"" within the ""Quick links"" section."
N A Rimer Goldman Sachs International R K Steel Senior The Registrar can also be contacted by telephone on Peterborough Court Independent Director 44 0 371 384 2030 non-UK callers 44 0 121 415 7047 133 Fleet Street E J Wray or 44 0 371 384 2255 text phone.
Calls to this number cost London EC4A 2BB no more than a national rate call from any type of phone or Company Secretary Numis Securities Limited provider.
These prices are for indication purposes only: if in L K Vernall The London Stock Exchange doubt, please check the cost of calling this number with your Building Independent Auditors phone line provider.
Lines are open 8.30am5.30pm, Mon-Fri 10 Paternoster Square  LLP excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
London EC4M 7LT 1 Embankment Place Shareholder enquiries London WC2N 6RH Registered office If you have any queries relating to your shareholding, dividend 71 Queen Victoria Street Bankers payments or lost share certificates, or if any of your details London EC4V 4AY Barclays Bank UK plc change, please contact the Companys registrars by visiting 1 Churchill Place www.
co. uk or by using the contact details above.
Registered number London E14 5HP 07123934 Annual shareholder calendar Santander UK plc Final results announced 7 March 2019 2 Triton Square Annual Report published 9 April 2019 Regents Place Annual General Meeting 5 June 2019 London NW1 3AN Interim report Lloyds Banking Group plc As part of our e-comms programme, we have decided not to 25 Gresham Street produce a printed copy of our Interim Report.
We will instead London EC2V 7AE publish the report on our website, where it will be available around mid-August each year.
"Cautionary statement Certain statements included in our 2018 Annual Report, or Iftheassumptions on which the Group bases its forwardincorporated by reference to it, may constitute ""forward-looking looking statements change, actual results may differ from statements"" in respect of the Groups operations, performance, those expressed in such statements."
The forward-looking prospects and or financial condition.
statements contained in this report reflect knowledge and information available at the date of this Annual Report and Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks theGroup undertakes no obligation to update these and uncertainties because they are beyond the Groups forward-looking statements except as required by law.
control and are based on current beliefs and expectations about future events about the Group and the industry in which This report does not constitute or form part of any offer or the Group operates.
invitation to sell, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase, any shares or other securities in the Company, and nothing No assurance can be given that such future results will inthis report should be construed as a profit forecast.
beachieved: actual events or results may differ materially asaresult of risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Funding Circles commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report which has been printed on Galerie Satin, an FSC certified material.
This document was printed by Park Communications using their environmental print technology, which minimises the impact of printing on the environment with 99 per cent ofdry waste is diverted from landfill and vegetable inks were used throughout.
Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management SystemISO14001, Quality management ISO9001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
141 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Funding Circle Holdings plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Funding Circle Holdings plc 71 Queen Victoria Street London EC4V 4AY corporate.
