DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Statement of directors responsibilities in respect Directors responsibility statement of the annual report and the financial statements Each of the directors, the names of whom are set out on pages 74 and 75 of this Integrated Report The directors are responsible for preparing the and Accounts, confirm that, to the best of his or her Integrated Report and Accounts and the Group and knowledge: parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the financial statements in this Integrated Report and Accounts have been prepared in accordance Company law requires the directors to prepare with the applicable accounting standards and give group and parent company financial statements a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial for each financial year.
Under that law they are position and results of the company and the required to prepare the group financial statements Group: and in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent the management report required by DTR4.1.
8R company financial statements in accordance with contained in the strategic report and the UK Accounting Standards comprising FRS101 and Directors report includes a fair review of the applicable law.
development and performance of the business and the position of the parent company and the Group Under company law the directors must not approve taken as a whole, together with a description of the financial statements unless they are satisfied that the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of The strategic report from the inside front cover the Group and parent company and of their profit to page 71 includes information on the Group or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the structure, the performance of the business and the group and parent company financial statements, the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The financial directors are required to: statements on pages 144 to 226 include information select suitable accounting policies and then apply on the Group and the companys financial results, them consistently: financial outlook, cash flow and net debt and make judgments and estimates that are reasonable balance sheet positions.
Notes 22, 25, 26, 29 and and prudent: 30 to the consolidated financial statements include information on the Groups investments, cash and for the group financial statements, state whether cash equivalents, borrowings, derivatives, financial they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs risk management objectives, hedging policies and as adopted by the EU, subject to any material exposure to interest, foreign exchange, credit, liquidity departures disclosed and explained in the group and market risks.
financial statements: for the parent company financial statements, state Pages 144 to 216 contain information on the whether applicable UK Accounting Standards performance of the Group, its financial position, comprising FRS101 have been followed, subject to cash flows, net debt position and borrowing any material departures disclosed and explained in facilities.
Further information, including financial risk the parent company financial statements: and management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and hedging activities, is given in note 30 prepare the financial statements on the going to the financial statements.
After making enquiries, concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume the directors have a reasonable expectation that that the Group and the parent company will the Group has adequate resources to continue in continue in business.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate For this reason the directors consider it appropriate accounting records that are sufficient to show and to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the explain the Group and parent companys transactions financial statements.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and parent Directors are also required to provide a broader company and enable them to ensure that its financial assessment of viability over a longer period, which can statements and Directors Remuneration Report be found on page 89 of the Integrated Report and comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Accounts.
the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS The directors consider that the Integrated Report Regulation.
They have general responsibility for and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to and understandable and provides the information safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and necessary for shareholders to assess the group and detect fraud and other irregularities.
parent companys performance, business model and Under applicable law and regulations, the directors strategy.
are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, The statement of directors responsibilities and the Directors report, Directors remuneration report and strategic report are approved by a duly authorised Corporate governance statement that comply with committee of the board of directors on 12 March that law and those regulations.
2019 and signed on its behalf by Tim Weller, Group The directors are responsible for the maintenance Chief Financial Officer.
and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and TIM WELLER dissemination of financial statements may differ from Group Chief Financial Officer legislation in other jurisdictions.
12 March 2019 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 131
