NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information G4S plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities its subsidiaries controlled by the company collectively comprising the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures made up to 31 December each year.
The Group operates throughout the world and in a wide range of functional currencies, the most significant being the Euro, the US dollar and Sterling.
The Groups financial statements are presented in Sterling, as the Groups primary listing is in the UK.
The address of the registered office is given on page 228.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union IFRSs and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC, and the accounting policies have been consistently applied.
The parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 217 to 226.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared on a going concern basis and using the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain non-current assets and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Judgments made by the directors in the application of those accounting policies which have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment, are discussed in note 4. b Presentation of the consolidated income statement In order to provide further clarity in the Groups consolidated income statement and segmental analysis, the Group separately discloses specific items, restructuring costs, profits or losses on disposal closure of subsidiaries or businesses, amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets and any acquisition-related expenses and goodwill impairment.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported to the Board and assists in providing a more meaningful analysis of the Groups results.
The directors believe that presentation of the Groups results in this way aids the understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Further explanation about the Groups rationale for separately presenting these items is set out in the Alternative Performance Measures section of the Strategic Report on pages 40 to 42.
Specific items The Groups consolidated income statement and segmental analysis note separately identify results before specific items.
Specific items are those that in managements judgment need to be disclosed separately in arriving at operating profit by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an event or transaction is specific, management considers quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
All items that are reported as specific items are evaluated and approved by the Groups Audit Committee prior to being separately disclosed.
The Group seeks to be balanced when reporting specific items for both debits and credits, and any reversals of excess provisions previously created as specific items are classified consistently as specific items.
In general, provisions recognised for future losses on onerous contracts are charged to the consolidated income statement within Adjusted PBITA.
However, where onerous contract charges are individually significant by virtue of their size, they are separately charged within specific items.
Such losses are distinct from in-year losses, which are utilised against provisions for onerous contract losses.
Releases of onerous contract provisions originally charged as specific items are separately credited within specific items.
Specific items may not be comparable with similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
Specific items for the current and prior years are described in note 8.
Other separately disclosed items In order to provide further clarity in the consolidated income statement, the Group also discloses separately certain strategic restructuring costs, profits or losses on disposal or closure of subsidiaries, costs of major corporate restructurings, acquisition-related amortisation and expenses and goodwill impairment.
Restructuring costs that are separately disclosed reflect the multi-year productivity programme which is being implemented by the Group.
This programme is of a strategic nature and, as such, is monitored and approved by the Groups Executive Committee.
During 2016 and 2017 activities under the programme focused primarily on transforming the operating model in the Europe & Middle East region.
Investment during 2018 related to the 2018-2020 strategic productivity programme announced in 2017 which is being implemented across the Group.
Restructuring costs that are incurred in the normal course of business are recorded within Adjusted PBITA.
Further explanation about the Groups rationale for separately presenting profits or losses on disposal or closure of subsidiaries, amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets and goodwill impairment is set out on pages 41 and 42. c Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved where the Group has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the activities that affect the Groups returns and exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
This can be determined either by the Groups ownership percentage, or by the terms of any shareholder agreement.
In the case of certain investments detailed analysis of the different contracts in place is required, together with a level of judgment, to ascertain whether there is control under the definition of IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements see note 4.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 149 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Significant accounting policies continued c Basis of consolidation continued On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The cost of acquisition is measured as the acquisition date fair value of the assets transferred as consideration to the vendor and does not include transaction costs.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency in the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the consolidated income statement in the year of acquisition.
The cost of acquisition includes the present value of deferred and contingent consideration payable, including that in respect of put options held by non-controlling shareholders, as estimated at the date of acquisition.
Subsequent changes to the present value of the estimate of contingent consideration and any difference upon final settlement of such a liability are recognised in the consolidated income statement with respect to contingent consideration and in other comprehensive income with respect to put options.
Non-controlling interests are stated at their proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Profits and losses are applied in the proportion of their respective ownership to the interest of the parent and to the non-controlling interest.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of control and up to the effective date of disposal, respectively.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control have the rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in the Groups consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
The Groups share of post-tax profits or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Where a Group company transacts with a joint venture of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint venture.
d Foreign currencies The financial statements of each of the Groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
Except for operations that have a functional currency that is hyperinflationary, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities which are denominated in other currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value which are denominated in other currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost denominated in other currencies are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the consolidated income statement for the period.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on their acquisition, are translated into Sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rates for the period unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rate prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income, together with exchange differences arising on monetary items that are in substance a part of the Groups net investment in foreign operations, and on borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments where and to the extent that the hedges are deemed to be effective.
On disposal, translation differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Current year transactions of operations that have a functional currency that is hyperinflationary are stated in terms of the value of money at the end of the current reporting period and are translated by applying relevant closing exchange rates.
Prior year comparatives presented in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of financial position are not restated for changes in the value of money or exchange rates.
Any adjustments arising on the restatement of transactions and balances in the year to the value of money at the end of the current reporting period are included within finance costs.
e Intangible assets Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for by the application of the acquisition method.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or joint venture.
No goodwill arises on the acquisition of an additional interest from a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary as this is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Goodwill is stated at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses, and is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that amounts may be impaired.
On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Acquisition-related intangible assets Intangible assets on acquisitions that are either separable or arising from contractual rights are recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Such acquisition-related intangible assets include trademarks, technology, customer contracts and customer relationships.
The fair value of acquisition-related intangible assets is determined by reference to market prices of similar assets, where such information is available, or by the use of appropriate valuation techniques, including the royalty relief method and the excess earnings method.
Acquisition-related intangible assets are amortised by equal annual instalments over their expected economic life.
The directors review acquisitionrelated intangible assets on an on-going basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
150 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 150 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 The estimated useful lives are as follows: Trademarks and technology up to a maximum of five years Customer contracts and customer relationships up to a maximum of ten years  intangible assets Development expenditure represents expenditure incurred in establishing new services and products of the Group.
Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only if the following can be demonstrated: the expenditure creates an identifiable asset, its cost can be measured reliably, it is probable that it will generate future economic benefits, it is technically and commercially feasible, and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
In all other instances, the cost of development expenditure is recorded directly in the consolidated income statement.
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over the period during which the expenditure is expected to be revenue-producing, up to a maximum of ten years.
The directors review the capitalised development expenditure on an on-going basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
Research expenditure is charged to the consolidated income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Capitalised computer software is stated at cost, net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Amortisation is charged on software so as to write off the cost of the assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives, up to a maximum of eight years.
f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings up to 50 years Short leasehold buildings under 50 years over the life of the lease Equipment and motor vehicles 2 to 10 years Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their expected useful economic lives and the terms of the relevant lease.
Where significant, the residual values and the useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment are re-assessed annually.
g Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
The Group classifies its financial assets except derivatives in the following measurement categories: Those to be measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss.
This category includes investments: and Those to be measured at amortised cost.
This category includes trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group classifies its financial liabilities except derivatives as measured at amortised cost.
Fair values are classified by reference to the inputs to the valuation technique used to derive them, using the following hierarchy: Level 1 inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 inputs are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly but are not quoted prices included in Level 1: Level 3 inputs are unobservable for the asset or liability.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at fair value as financial assets or financial liabilities.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated income statement unless they are designated as hedges.
The accounting for subsequent changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as hedges depends on the nature of the hedging relationship as described below.
Fair value hedges The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted for fair value changes attributable to the risk being hedged.
Changes in the fair value of both the hedging instrument and the fair value of the risk being hedged are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve within equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are re-classified to the consolidated income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 151 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Significant accounting policies continued g Financial instruments continued Any cumulative deferred gains or losses along with any deferred costs of hedging that are recorded in equity when a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, any cumulative gains or losses and deferred costs of hedging that are recorded in equity are immediately re-classified to the consolidated income statement.
Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in similar manner to cash flow hedges.
Any gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in reserves in equity.
Any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are re-classified to profit or loss when the foreign operation is disposed of in whole or in part.
Cost of hedging The currency basis spread is a margin that is present in a cross currency derivative that is not present in a hedged item that is a single currency exposure.
As such, when designating a cross currency derivative as a hedging item and measuring the effectiveness of the hedge, the Group excludes the currency basis spread.
Additionally, when cross currency swaps are designated in a net investment hedge to manage the spot to spot exposure of net assets, forward points inherent in the derivative are also considered to be a cost of hedging.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated as net investment hedges or cash flow hedges which relate to the currency basis spread or forward points described above are recognised in other comprehensive income and included in the cost of hedging reserve which is a component of equity.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value which, unless there is a significant financing component, represents the amount of consideration that is unconditional.
These are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less loss allowances.
Loss allowances are determined using expected loss rates which are calculated taking into account payment profiles over a period of 36 months before the balance sheet date and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period.
The expected loss rates are adjusted for current and forward-looking local economic and market conditions.
Investments Investments comprise investments in securities and certificates of deposit which are measured at fair value both on initial recognition and subsequently.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term call deposits.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing bank overdrafts, loans and loan notes are recognised at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are recognised in the consolidated income statement on an accrual basis using the effective-interest method.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing, are stated initially at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
h Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business in bringing inventories to their present condition and location and includes appropriate overheads.
Cost is calculated using either the weighted average or the first-in-first-out method.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
i Impairment The carrying values of the Groups assets, with the exception of inventories, financial receivables and deferred tax assets, are reviewed on an ongoing basis for any indication of impairment and, if any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement whenever the carrying value of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of any other asset, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine its recoverable amount.
The amount of the reversal is limited such that the assets carrying amount does not exceed that which would have been determined after depreciation and amortisation if no impairment loss had been recognised.
j Employee benefits Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefits scheme.
152 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 152 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the present value of the Groups total defined benefit obligation reduced by the fair value of the related scheme assets.
The total of all of the Groups individual schemes that are in a net asset position is presented separately in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The value of any net asset recognised for a defined benefit scheme is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
For defined benefit plans, the cost charged to the consolidated income statement consists of current service cost, net interest cost, and past service cost.
The finance element of the pension charge is shown in finance expense and the remaining service cost element is charged as a component of employee costs in the consolidated income statement.
Actuarial and other re-measurement gains and losses are recognised immediately in full within other comprehensive income.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is determined at the date of grant and expensed, with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest.
The amount expensed is adjusted over the vesting period for changes in the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest, excluding changes resulting from any market-related performance conditions.
Cash-settled sharebased payments are recognised as a liability at fair value at the date of grant.
The value of the liability is re-measured at each reporting date and at the date the liability is settled.
Changes in the liability are recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
k Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised when a present legal or constructive obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
The amount recognised as a provision is the Groups best estimate of the likely outflows at the end of the reporting period.
In respect of claims, onerous customer contracts and litigation, the Group provides for anticipated costs where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
For all such items, the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement.
Management exercises judgment in measuring the Groups exposures to contingent liabilities see note 32 through assessing the likelihood that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the possible range of financial outcomes.
Where the time value of money is material, provisions are stated at the present value of the expected expenditure using an appropriate discount rate.
l Restructuring costs A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the on-going activities of the entity.
The Group distinguishes in the consolidated income statement between restructuring costs that are recurring and those that relate to one-off or transformational Group programmes that impact a number of operations.
Recurring restructuring costs that are incurred in the normal course of business are recorded as part of the Groups results within adjusted profit before interest, tax and amortisation Adjusted PBITA.
Restructuring costs that are one-off and individually material or relate to programmes linked to the Groups wider transformation, and require approval at executive level, are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
m Revenue recognition The Group has no revenue other than that arising from contracts with customers.
For the majority of the Groups services, including the provision of manned security and cash security services, the Groups right to consideration from its customers equates to the value of services supplied to the customer.
Where that is the case, the practical expedient has been applied under IFRS 15 to recognise revenue when the services are provided for the amount that the Group has a right to invoice for those services.
Technology installations are considered to comprise one performance obligation consisting of a group of inseparable services.
Revenue in respect of such installations is recognised as the services are delivered based on costs incurred as a proportion of the total expected costs of the installation.
Contracts for the provision of security alarms, smart safes and cash recycling equipment are assessed to identify distinct performance obligations which will typically include one or more of: the outright sale of equipment: the provision of installation and or maintenance services: equipment rental and ongoing monitoring.
In contracts that include the outright sale of equipment, revenue in respect of the sale and installation is recognised when the equipment is installed.
In countries in which equipment cannot be sold without the provision of on-going maintenance or other services and in contracts for the rental of equipment, revenue is recognised over the period of the contract.
On-going maintenance and monitoring services represent a series of services with a constant pattern of transfer to the customer over time.
Revenue in respect of such services is recognised over the period of the contract.
Where a contract contains a number of distinct performance obligations, the amount of revenue recognised in respect of each is determined by allocating the total transaction price in the contract to performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling prices.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 153 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 153 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Significant accounting policies continued m Revenue recognition continued Contracts for facilities management and Care & Justice Services typically require the provision of a group of interrelated goods and services to the customer over a period of time.
Such goods and services are typically considered to represent a single performance obligation as each promise is satisfied over the same period.
Consideration received in respect of such services typically equates to the value of services supplied to the customer to date and the practical expedient has been applied under IFRS 15 to recognise revenue when services are provided for the amount that the Group has a right to invoice for those services.
Certain of the Groups contracts include payments that vary depending on its performance, including payments or penalties that are determined based on the Group achieving KPIs.
In such cases, the amount of revenue recognised is limited to the extent that it is not highly probable that the Group will ultimately receive payment.
For the majority of the Groups contracts, invoices are raised in the month or months after the delivery of services.
Accrued income arises in relation to services provided that have not been invoiced at the year end.
For some contracts, particularly in facilities management, construction, and Care & Justice Services activities, payments are received in advance of the performance of the related services and are recognised within deferred income until the related services are delivered.
n Contract acquisition and fulfilment costs The Group recognises the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer as an asset, to the extent that those costs are expected to be recovered during the contract.
Such capitalised costs are amortised over the contract term.
Bid team and other costs incurred prior to winning a contract are not capitalised but are charged to the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Contract fulfilment costs are capitalised if they relate directly to a contract: result in the creation or enhancement of an asset to be used in the performance of that contract: and are expected to be recovered under that contract.
Capitalised contract fulfilment costs are amortised over the contract term in line with the delivery of goods or services.
o Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions are recognised when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Managements profit-improvement plans to recover the position on loss-making contracts require a level of judgment and are generally taken into account in the calculation of the onerous contract provision only when implementation has commenced and tangible evidence exists of benefits being delivered.
The provision is calculated based on discounted cash flows to the end of the contract.
In general, provisions recognised for future losses are charged to the consolidated income statement within Adjusted PBITA.
Where onerous contract provisions are individually material by virtue of their size, they are separately charged within specific items.
In-year operating losses from onerous contracts are accounted for as a utilisation of the related provision for future losses.
Any excess or shortfall to the initial estimate for onerous contract provisions is credited or charged in the consolidated income statement consistent with where the charge for the initial provision was recognised.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming vacant.
The provision is calculated based on discounted cash flows to the end of the lease taking into account expected future sub-lease income.
p Interest Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
This is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial assets net carrying amount.
Borrowing costs, also calculated using the effective-interest method, are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement.
q Income taxes Tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case it is recognised through other comprehensive income.
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax, and excludes charges for interest on tax and certain penalties on tax settlements, which are reported within finance expenses and administration expenses respectively.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of potential deferred tax assets is re-assessed at each balance sheet date and recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow those assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Tax liabilities or refunds may differ from those anticipated due to changes in tax legislation, differing interpretations of tax legislation and uncertainties surrounding the application of tax legislation.
In situations where uncertainties exist, provision is made for tax liabilities and assets on 154 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 154 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 the basis of management judgment following consideration of the available relevant information.
Further detail on managements judgments in respect of taxation is provided in note 4. r Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
On occasion this classification requires a level of judgment.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the inception of the lease at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments made or received are apportioned between finance charges or income and the reduction of the lease liability or asset so as to produce a constant rate of interest on the outstanding balance of the liability or asset.
Rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to income on a straight-line basis over the lease term, as are incentives to enter into operating leases.
s Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
The Group must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
t Dividend distribution Dividends are recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period in which they are paid or approved by the shareholders in general meeting.
u Adoption of new and revised accounting standards and interpretations The Group has applied IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the first time in the year ended 31 December 2018.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers with effect from 1 January 2018 and has prepared its 2018 Integrated Report and Accounts in accordance with the requirements of this new standard.
The Group has chosen to apply the standard fully retrospectively and has restated comparatives where appropriate.
The Group derives its revenue principally from providing manned security and cash security services: technology installation: the provision of security equipment particularly security alarms, smart safes and cash recycling equipment : and facilities management including Care & Justice Services.
Where that is the case, the practical expedient has been applied under IFRS 15 to recognise revenue when services are provided for the amount that the Group is entitled to invoice for those services.
Technology installations represent long-term technology or other installation projects that span one or more reporting years.
Under IFRS 15, such installations are considered to comprise one performance obligation consisting of a group of inseparable services.
Contracts for facilities management and Care & Justice Services typically require the provision of a group of interrelated goods and services to the customer over a period of time.
Consideration received in respect of such services typically equates to the value of services supplied to the customer to date and the practical expedient has been applied under IFRS 15 to recognise revenue as the customer is billed.
In some facilities management contracts, the Group receives payment at the inception of the contract to compensate for mobilisation costs incurred at the inception of the contract.
Historically, such payments have been recognised as revenue as the Group has incurred the related costs.
Under IFRS 15, such amounts have been recorded as deferred income and recognised as services are provided.
The effect of this change has been to increase trade and other payables at 31 December 2017 by 13m 1 January 2017: 12m.
The impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the Groups consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 was an immaterial change to the presentation of penalties incurred and an immaterial reduction in the amount capitalised with respect to the costs of bidding for and winning contracts with the effect of reducing revenue by 2m and increasing each of Adjusted PBITA, operating profit, profit before tax, profit after tax, profit for the year and profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent by 1m.
The adoption of IFRS 15 had no impact on the Groups net cash flow from operating activities for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 155 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 155 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Significant accounting policies continued u Adoption of new and revised accounting standards and interpretations continued The impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 on the Groups consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017 and as at 1 January 2017 is presented below: As at 31 December 2017 As at 1 January 2017 Restatement for Restatement for As published IFRS15 Restated As published IFRS15 Restated Consolidated statement of financial position m m m m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Trade and other receivables 83 1 82 101 1 100 Deferred tax asset 240 2 242 285 2 287 Other non-current assets 2,526 2,526 2,637 2,637 2,849 1 2,850 3,023 1 3,024 Current assets Trade and other receivables 1,416 1 1,417 1,381 2 1,383 Other current assets 1,156 1,156 1,207 1,207 2,572 1 2,573 2,588 2 2,590 Total assets 5,421 2 5,423 5,611 3 5,614 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,262 1 1,263 1,260 2 1,262 Other current liabilities 1,164 1,164 1,044 1,044 2,426 1 2,427 2,304 2 2,306 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 23 12 35 30 13 43 Other non-current liabilities 2,118 2,118 2,414 2,414 2,141 12 2,153 2,444 13 2,457 Total liabilities 4,567 13 4,580 4,748 15 4,763 Net assets 854 11 843 863 12 851 EQUITY Share capital 388 388 388 388 Share premium 258 258 258 258 Reserves 204 11 193 196 12 184 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 850 11 839 842 12 830 Non-controlling interests 4 4 21 21 Total Equity 854 11 843 863 12 851 156 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 156 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The Group has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with effect from 1 January 2018 and has prepared its Integrated Report and Accounts in accordance with the requirements of this new standard.
The new standard is applicable to the classification, measurement, impairment and re-categorisation of financial assets and liabilities.
It also introduces a new hedge accounting model.
There has been no material change to the Group's consolidated income statement, statement of other comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, statement of financial position or statement of cash flows on adoption.
The Group has no financial liabilities held at fair value other than derivatives.
The introduction of an expected loss impairment model has had no material effect given the general quality and short-term nature of the Group's trade receivables.
There has been no re-categorisation of assets on adoption of the new standard.
Hedge accounting The Group has adopted the new general hedge accounting model in IFRS 9.
This requires the Group to ensure that hedge accounting relationships are aligned with its risk management objectives and strategy, and to apply a more qualitative and forward-looking approach to assessing hedge effectiveness.
Following a review of the Groups hedging arrangements, the Group has determined that its existing hedges are compliant with the new requirements.
In accordance with the accounting policy, the Group has elected to present separately the cost of hedging reserve in equity.
Transition Changes in accounting policies resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 have been applied retrospectively.
Other than described above, the Group has not made any voluntary elections on adoption.
New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective The Group has not early-adopted any standard, amendment or interpretation in the year.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The directors are currently evaluating the impact of these new standards on the group financial statements: Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle IFRS 9 amendments Prepayment features with negative compensation IAS 28 amendments Long term interests in associates and joint ventures IAS 19 amendments Plan amendment, curtailment or settlement IFRS 3 amendments Definition of a business IAS 1 and IAS 8 Definition of material IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 will be effective for the first time in the Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019.
Its principal effect will be to gross up the Groups balance sheet to recognise additional right of use assets within property, plant and equipment and additional lease liabilities in respect of leases that are currently treated as operating leases.
The associated operating lease charge that is currently recorded within operating costs will be removed and replaced with a depreciation charge in respect of the additional assets recognised and an interest charge in respect of the additional lease creditors recognised.
The Group will apply the standard using the fully retrospective method and will restate its results for comparative periods as if the Group had always applied the new standard.
The only exception is that leases as defined by IFRS 16 that were in existence at 1 January 2018 but did not meet the previous definition of leases will continue to apply their historical accounting.
The Group will not apply the standard to short-term leases being those with an initial term of 12 months or less or leases of low-value items defined as leases of assets with an initial cost of less than 2,500.
It will apply the practical expedient to include non-lease components within the measurement of lease assets and liabilities.
Adopting IFRS 16 requires the Group to exercise judgment.
In particular: IFRS 16 requires the Group to take into account periods covered by options to extend or terminate leases to the extent that it is reasonably certain that the leases will continue for those terms.
In assessing what is reasonably certain, the Group considers past practice, its future needs, the lease terms, and, in respect of leases of assets that are used to serve sales contracts, the length of the related sales contracts.
IFRS 16 requires the Group to estimate incremental rates of borrowings in respect of leases for which no interest rate is implicit in the lease.
The Group has determined the incremental rates of borrowing for individual leases based on swap rates with matching start-dates, terms and currencies, adjusted for the country-specific risk of the lessee.
No adjustment has been made to reflect the nature of the leased assets on the basis that a lender would not make a material adjustment to the borrowing rate to reflect the nature of the underlying assets.
Based on the Groups provisional estimates, it anticipates that it will recognise additional right of use assets of approximately 345m at 31 December 2018 385m at 1 January 2018.
Additional finance lease creditors of approximately 410m will be recorded at 31 December 2018 460m at 1 January 2018 including some that will replace existing property and onerous contract provisions.
Of the right of use asset recognised at 31 December 2018, approximately 225m relates to properties and approximately 90m relates to motor vehicles.
The remainder relates to other operational equipment leased by the Group.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 157 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 157 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Significant accounting policies continued u Adoption of new and revised accounting standards and interpretations continued The Group provisionally estimates that the adoption of IFRS 16 will reduce the operating lease expense for the year ended 31 December 2018 by approximately 190m and increase the depreciation expense by approximately 155m resulting in a net increase in operating profit of approximately 35m.
In addition, interest on the finance lease liability is expected to increase the interest charge for the year by approximately 20m.
Note: all amounts stated to the nearest 5m and at 2018 year-end rates of exchange.
The Group expects that a significant portion of its property and onerous contract provisions related to leases will be derecognised and replaced with finance lease creditors.
In addition, the Group expects to make various consequential adjustments as a result of adopting IFRS 16 including: adjusting operating profit to remove the effect of movements in property and onerous contract provisions related to leases: adjusting prepayments and accruals in respect of leases that have previously been treated as operating leases: and consequential changes to reflect movements in foreign exchange rates.
During 2019, the Group will also complete its assessment of the tax and deferred tax effects of adopting IFRS 16.
The Group will finalise those adjustments in early 2019.
Accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3, with respect to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period.
Significant judgments Significant judgments are those made by management when applying its accounting policies that are considered to have the most significant impact on amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
Those judgments that are considered to have the most significant impact on amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements, apart from those involving estimations which are disclosed separately below, are the following: Compliance with foreign ownership rules and consolidation of subsidiaries The Group has a diverse set of complex ownership structures, which are sometimes driven by local laws and regulations relating to foreign ownership.
In some instances the Group operates through local structures with limited direct share ownership of the business but exercises control through shareholder agreements.
Judgment is required in determining whether certain Group entities qualify for consolidation under IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements, and in some instances professional and legal advice is sought to support these judgments.
Consolidation of any of these entities would be at risk if the Groups ability to enforce its rights of control was successfully challenged.
These judgments have been applied in determining how the Group consolidates businesses with an aggregated revenue of c. 700m, Adjusted PBITA of c. 50m and equity shareholders funds of c. 200m.
The impact on the Groups earnings after tax of equity accounting rather than full consolidation would not be material.
Classification of leases The classification of leases as operating or finance leases is based on the criteria set out in IAS 17 Leases, which defines a series of attributes which, when contained within a lease, may result in its classification as a finance lease.
Judgment is required in assessing leases at inception as to whether individual attributes, in aggregate or in isolation, are such that the substance of the lease is that of a finance lease.
Details of the Groups finance leases are disclosed in note 27 and the Groups operating lease commitments are set out in note 37.
Alternative Performance Measures The Group uses Adjusted PBITA as a consistent internal and external reporting measure of its performance, as management views it as being more representative of the normal course of business and more comparable period to period.
Adjusted PBITA excludes strategic restructuring costs, amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets and specific and other separately disclosed items which the Group believes should be disclosed separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Judgment is required when defining those items to be disclosed separately and when applying the classification criteria to each periods results.
Further details on separately disclosed items are set out in note 8.
Significant estimates and assumptions Significant estimates and associated assumptions are those that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Significant estimates are made taking into account historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, including current and expected economic conditions, and, in some cases, actuarial techniques.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The most significant estimates, assumptions and sources of uncertainty in preparing the Groups 2018 consolidated financial statements are set out below: Onerous contracts The Group delivers certain long-term services that are complex in nature.
Some of the contracts to deliver these services may evolve to become loss-making, such that net unavoidable losses are expected to be incurred over their life.
Where a contract is expected to be loss-making over its remaining term, the net present value of estimated future losses is determined in order to calculate an onerous contract provision.
The identification and measurement of such provisions is subject to inherent risk, given the extended time periods often involved and the number of variables which are not all within the Groups control.
158 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 158 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 In particular, estimation is required in assessing future expected revenue and costs on such contracts, including: determining the expected impact of any profit improvement plans where sufficient evidence exists of benefits being delivered by those plans: determining the expected outcome of any contractual or commercial disputes: and determining an appropriate discount rate to apply to material future cash flows.
The level of uncertainty in the estimates and assumptions supporting expected future revenues and costs can vary with the complexity of each contract and with the form of service delivery.
For further details of how the Group has applied judgments and estimates to significant onerous contract provisions refer to note 32 on pages 195 to 197.
Carrying value of goodwill The Group tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that amounts may be impaired.
The impairment analysis for such assets is based principally upon discounted estimated future cash flows from the use and eventual disposal of the assets, requiring assumptions on growth rates and the impact of local economic factors.
The full methodology and results of the Groups impairment testing, including an analysis of the sensitivity of goodwill to the key assumptions, are presented in note 18.
Taxation The Group operates in many tax jurisdictions including countries where the tax legislation is not consistently applied and under some complex contractual circumstances where the responsibility for tax arising is not always clear.
Judgments and estimates are required to determine the appropriate amount of tax to provide for and any required disclosure around contingent tax liabilities at each period end.
Provisions for tax liabilities are estimated for existing matters under dispute with local tax authorities, as well as for matters which it is considered may be disputed by them, where it is probable that a future liability will arise.
The tax liability provided is managements best estimate, taking into account external advice, the anticipated position of the relevant tax authorities, and other local factors.
In certain cases, and where appropriate, a probability weighting is applied in determining the amount provided.
In all cases it is assumed that the local tax authorities have, or will be provided with, full information.
Therefore the tax liability is not reduced for detection risk.
Further details about the range of the potential tax exposure to which the Group is subject are set out in note 13.
The Group has tax losses and other deductible temporary differences, mainly in the UK and USA, that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that their recovery is probable, having regard to the projected future taxable income of these entities and after taking into account specific risk factors that affect the recovery of these assets.
The same profit projections are used for these purposes as are used by the business, for example in assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
Judgment is applied on a case-by-case basis due to the jurisdictional nature of taxation.
This analysis is considered afresh at each balance sheet date.
Valuation of retirement benefit obligations The valuation of defined retirement benefit schemes is arrived at using the advice of qualified independent actuaries who use the projected unit credit method for determining the Groups obligations.
This methodology requires the use of a variety of assumptions and estimates, including the determination of an appropriate discount rate, the expected return on scheme assets, mortality assumptions, future service and earnings increases of employees and inflation.
Full details of the Groups retirement benefit obligations, including an analysis of the sensitivity of the calculations to the key assumptions, are presented in note 31.
Labour laws and commercial agreements The Group is involved in disputes in a number of countries, mainly related to activities incidental to its operations.
Currently there are a number of such disputes, including class actions, open in relation to the application of local labour law, commercial agreements with customers and subcontractors and claims and compliance matters, in some cases in the course of litigation.
In addition the interpretation of labour laws and regulations in a number of countries where the Group operates is complex and there is an inherent judgment made when applying those laws and regulations that are open to interpretation.
As such, there is a risk that further disputes and claims from employees could arise in the future.
Where there is a dispute or where there is a risk of a dispute on claims in the future and where, based on legal counsel advice, the Group estimates that it is probable that the dispute will result in an outflow of economic resources, provision is made based on the Groups best estimate of the likely financial outcome.
For further details of how the Group has applied judgments and estimates to these provisions and, where relevant, an analysis of the sensitivity of the provisions to the key underlying estimates and assumptions, refer to note 32 on pages 195 to 197.
In certain instances it is not possible to determine a reliable estimate or a reasonable range of potential outcomes.
For these cases, disclosure of the relevant items as contingent liabilities is provided in note 32.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 159 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 159 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
Revenue The Groups revenue by type of service and reportable segment see note 6 can be analysed as follows: Cash Europe Total Secure Africa Americas Asia & Middle East Solutions Solutions Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m Sale of goods 10 58 6 37 111 34 145 Rendering of services 396 2,246 853 2,530 6,025 1,103 7,128 Revenue from construction contracts 139 23 77 239 239 Total 406 2,443 882 2,644 6,375 1,137 7,512 Cash Europe Total Secure Africa Americas Asia & Middle East Solutions Solutions Total 1 Year ended 31 December 2017 Restated m m m m m m m Sale of goods 8 56 6 38 108 173 281 Rendering of services 391 2,351 866 2,616 6,224 1,118 7,342 Revenue from construction contracts 86 24 93 203 203 Total 399 2,493 896 2,747 6,535 1,291 7,826 1.
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2017 has been restated for the effects of IFRS 15 see note 3.
The Groups revenue by customer type can be analysed as follows: 2017 1 Restated 2018 Year ended 31 December 2018 m m Major corporates 2,556 2,594 Government 1,615 1,615 Financial institutions 1,249 1,341 Retail, leisure and consumers 1,256 1,412 Private energy utilities 429 463 Transport, ports and aviation 407 401 Total 7,512 7,826 1.
Each of the Groups segments made sales to all customer types both in 2018 and 2017.
Assets and liabilities related to contracts with customers 2017 2016 1 1 2018 Restated Restated Current assets Note m m m Amounts due from construction contract customers 23 14 17 17 Accrued income 23 231 168 153 Trade debtors 23 1,065 1,071 1,060 Loss allowance 23 55 61 65 Total contract assets 1,255 1,195 1,165 Liabilities Amounts due to construction contract customers current 28 2 2 3 Deferred income current 28 72 64 78 Deferred income non-current 28 15 18 22 Total contract liabilities 89 84 103 1.
Restated for the effects of IFRS 15 see note 3.
During the year the Group recognised 58m of revenue that was held in deferred income or amounts payable to construction contract customers as at 31 December 2017 2017: 58m related to amounts as at 31 December 2016, and nil 2017: 3m of revenue in relation to performance obligations satisfied in prior years.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group has recorded 3m 2017: 2m of capitalised contract fulfilment costs, included within other debtors.
The Group did not incur any material contract acquisition costs during the current or prior years.
The increase in accrued income in the year to 31 December 2018 primarily arises because of the timing of invoicing for services in new contracts in the UK and US Secure Solutions businesses.
160 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 160 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 6.
Operating segments As indicated in the 2017 Integrated Report and Accounts, from 1 January 2018 the Group has reorganised the group-wide management of its businesses to create a Global Cash Solutions division and to consolidate its Secure Solutions business into four regions: Africa: Americas combining the previous North America and Latin America regions : Asia including India and Bangladesh that formerly reported under the Middle East & India region : and Europe & Middle East combining the previous Europe, UK & Ireland and Middle East & India regions except for India and Bangladesh that now report under the Asia region.
The Cash Solutions business is managed and reported separately to the Group Executive Committee.
Whilst it operates in various geographic regions, the nature of the products and services provided and the type of customer are similar across those regions.
Prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly to present segmental results on a consistent basis.
For each of the reportable segments, the Group Executive Committee the chief operating decision maker reviews internal management reports on a regular basis.
Segment information is presented below: Total segment Total segment Inter-segment External revenue Inter-segment External revenue revenue revenue revenue 2017 revenue 2017 1 1 2018 2018 2018 Restated 2017 Restated Revenue by reportable segment m m m m m m Africa 408 2 406 406 7 399 2 Americas 2,447 4 2,443 2,498 5 2,493 Asia 889 7 882 904 8 896 4 Europe & Middle East 2,663 19 2,644 2,763 16 2,747 Total Secure Solutions 6,407 32 6,375 6,571 36 6,535 2,3, 4 Cash Solutions 1,144 7 1,137 1,295 4 1,291 Total Revenue 7,551 39 7,512 7,866 40 7,826 Continuing Total operations Continuing Discontinued Discontinued 2017 2017 operations operations Total operations 1 1 Restated Restated 2018 2018 2018 2017 Operating profit by reportable segment m m m m m m Africa 31 31 29 29 2 Americas 127 2 129 123 6 117 Asia 63 63 60 60 Europe & Middle East 175 175 182 182 Total Secure Solutions 396 2 398 394 6 388 2,3 Cash Solutions 114 114 147 147 Operating profit before corporate costs 510 2 512 541 6 535 Corporate costs 50 50 49 49 Adjusted profit before interest, tax and amortisation Adjusted PBITA 460 2 462 492 6 486 Specific items net 22 22 34 34 California class action settlement 100 100 Guaranteed minimum pension equalisation charge 35 35 Restructuring costs 31 31 20 20 Loss profit on disposal closure of subsidiaries businesses 15 15 74 74 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 4 4 10 10 Operating profit 253 2 255 502 6 496 1.
The revenue and operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the Groups reorganisation as described above and for the effects of IFRS 15 see note 3.
As part of the disposal of the Colombia Cash business in 2018, a small number of contracts that were previously reported in the Cash Solutions division were transferred to the Colombia Secure Solutions business and integrated into their operations.
Results from these contracts have been re-classified to be reported within the Americas region in the Secure Solutions division and prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Includes a benefit of 8m from the early completion of a bullion centre contract in the UK Cash Solutions business 2017: 3m from the same contract.
Revenue in the UK, being the Groups country of domicile, was 1,304m 2017: 1,298m.
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
The Group has no transactions with a single external customer that amount to 10% or more of total Group revenue in the current or prior years.
Refer to note 7 for details on discontinued operations.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 161 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 161 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
Operating segments continued Non-current assets The following information is analysed by reportable segment and by the geographical area in which the assets are located: 2017 4 2018 Restated 1 Non-current assets m m By reportable segment Africa 62 58 Americas 645 627 Asia 134 111 2 Europe & Middle East 851 871 Total Secure Solutions 1,692 1,667 2 Cash Solutions 690 737 1 Total segment non-current assets 2,382 2,404 Corporate 52 47 1 Total non-current assets 2,434 2,451 3 Other non-current assets 435 425 Less: Non-current assets held for sale 9 26 Total non-current assets 2,860 2,850 1.
Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other acquisition-related intangible assets,  intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investments in joint ventures.
Non-current assets in the UK, being the Groups country of domicile, amounted to 815m 2017: 817m.
Other non-current assets comprise trade and other receivables, investments, retirement benefit surpluses and deferred tax assets.
Non-current assets for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated for the effects of IFRS 15 see note 3.
Other information Depreciation Depreciation and Capital and Capital amortisation additions amortisation additions 2018 2018 2017 2017 By reportable segment m m m m Africa 6 11 67 Americas 15 17 18 16 Asia 6 11 76 Europe & Middle East 37 31 44 29 Total Secure Solutions 64 70 75 58 Cash Solutions 51 46 55 40 Total segment 115 116 130 98 Corporate 2 14 6 10 Total 117 130 136 108 7.
Discontinued operations The profit from discontinued operations of 2m in the current year relates to the recovery in 2019 of receivables that had been provided for as at 1 January 2018, in relation to historical disposals of businesses classified as discontinued operations at the time of sale 2017: loss of 6m comprising impairments of trade receivables and costs and charges incurred or expected to be incurred.
Discontinued operations incurred no tax charge during the year 2017: nil.
None of the Groups businesses currently held for sale or sold or closed during the year meet the criteria to be classified as discontinued operations in the current year 2017: none.
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 6.
Discontinued operations generated no cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
162 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 162 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 8.
Operating profit The consolidated income statement can be analysed as follows: 2017 1 2018 Restated Continuing operations m m Revenue 7,512 7,826 Cost of sales 6,208 6,429 Gross profit 1,304 1,397 2 Administration expenses 1,047 893 2 Net impairment losses on financial and contract assets 11 11 Share of profit after tax from joint ventures 7 9 Operating profit 253 502 1.
Comparative results have been restated for the adoption of IFRS 15, see note 3.
Comparative results have been re-presented to show separately the net impairment losses on financial and contract assets that were previously included within administration expenses.
Operating profit includes items that are separately disclosed for the year ended 31 December 2018 relating to: Specific items charges of 32m 2017: 34m include 12m related to additional provisions in Asia in respect of historical employee gratuities and end of service benefits and 11m related to the reassessment of estimated settlement amounts in respect of historical workers compensation claims in the Americas.
In addition, this includes a 9m onerous contract charge related to two UK Care & Justice contracts, reflecting the estimated losses over the expected remaining contract terms: Specific items charges incurred during the year ended 31 December 2017 of 34m included 19m primarily relating to the anticipated total losses over the next 15 to 20 years in respect of certain UK government contracts, 6m related to the estimated cost of settlement of subcontractor claims from commercial disputes in respect of prior years, and 9m related mainly to the settlement of labour disputes in respect of prior years in the Americas: Specific items credits of 10m 2017: nil include a 5m release of onerous contract provisions in the UK for which the related charges had previously been recorded as specific items, following the implementation of operational efficiencies in the contracts leading to a reduction in expected future losses.
In addition, a further 5m related to successful court claims made by the Group in the Americas: Following the UK High Court Ruling in the case of Lloyds Banking Group Pension Trustees Limited v Lloyds Bank plc and others in October 2018, the Group incurred a charge of 35m 2017: nil in respect of the equalisation of benefits for historical Guaranteed Minimum Pension obligations between males and females in the UK: In January 2019 the Group agreed the settlement of a class action relating to claims for employee meal and rest breaks for the period 2001 to 2010 in California.
This settlement is subject to the final approval of the Superior Court of the State of California.
The amount to be settled is between US$100m and US$130m with the precise amount to be determined during the settlement administration process.
A provision of 100m has been established in the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 representing managements best estimate of the amount of the class action settlement and any related costs: Investment in restructuring programmes of 31m 2017: 20m relates to the 2018-2020 strategic productivity programme announced in 2017 which is being implemented across the Group, mainly in Europe & Middle East, the Americas and Global Cash Solutions.
In addition, the Group incurred non-strategic severance costs of 9m 2017: 10m which are included within cost of sales and administration expenses as appropriate: Disposal loss of 15m 2017: profit of 74m relating to the disposal of a number of the Groups operations including its businesses in Hungary and the Philippines, its archiving business in Kenya and the Cash Solutions businesses in the United Arab Emirates, Colombia and Saudi Arabia.
In 2017, the Group disposed of a number of operations including the businesses in Israel and Bulgaria and its Youth Services business in North America: and Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets of 4m 2017: 10m is lower than the prior year as certain intangible assets recognised on legacy acquisitions became fully amortised in 2017.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 163 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 163 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Profit from operations Profit from continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2018 2017 Notes m m Cost of sales Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 90 98 Administration expenses Net specific items 8 22 34 Guaranteed minimum pension equalisation charge 8 35 California class action settlement 8 100 Restructuring costs 8 31 20 Net loss profit on disposal closure of subsidiaries businesses 8, 17 15 74 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 8 4 10 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19 93 104 Amortisation of  intangible assets 18 20 22 Research and development expenditure 4 4 1 Operating lease rentals payable restated 197 172 Share-based payments 38 8 10 1.
As a result of the detailed work carried out to assess the impact of IFRS 16 Leases, effective 1 January 2019, the Group has identified that the operating lease rentals payable that were previously disclosed for the year ended 31 December 2017 as 104m were understated.
As a result, it has re-presented the operating lease rentals payable above.
The adjustment has no effect on the total of administrative expenses, or the profit for the year to 31 December 2017.
Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 m m Fees payable to the companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: 1 The audit of the companys subsidiaries 7 7 2 All other services 1 1 1.
2018 fees included nil 2017: 1m in respect of prior years.
Other services of 0.6m 2017: 0.7m relate mainly to other assurance services of 0.5m 2017: 0.5m which include the half year review.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 98 to 104 outlines the companys established policy for ensuring that audit independence is not compromised through the provision by the companys auditor of other services.
164 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 164 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 11.
Staff costs and employees The average monthly number of employees, including executive directors was: 2018 2017 By reportable segment Number Number Africa 116,188 119,514 Americas 117,802 123,134 Asia 175,693 177,704 Europe & Middle East 103,411 103,078 Total Secure Solutions 513,094 523,430 Cash Solutions 34,873 37,492 Head office 265 248 Total average number of employees excluding joint ventures 548,232 561,170 Average number of employees employed by joint ventures 11,648 12,501 Total average number of employees including joint ventures 559,880 573,671 Their aggregate remuneration, comprised: 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 4,505 4,629 Social security costs 477 501 Employee benefits 212 233 Total staff costs excluding joint ventures 5,194 5,363 Joint venture staff costs 63 70 Total staff costs including joint ventures 5,257 5,433 Information on directors remuneration, long-term incentive plans, pension contributions and entitlements is set out in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 105 to 127.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 165 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 165 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
Net finance expense 1 2018 2017 m m Interest and other income on cash, cash equivalents and investments 14 12 Other finance income 2 Finance income 16 12 Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 16 18 Interest on loan notes 81 87 1 Net interest payable receivable on loan-note related derivatives 7 4 Gain arising from fair value adjustment to the hedged loan note items 6 14 Loss arising from change in fair value of derivative financial instruments hedging loan notes 6 14 Interest on obligations under finance leases 2 3 2 Other interest charges 9 12 Total Group borrowing costs 115 116 Finance costs on defined retirement benefit obligations 11 11 Finance expense 126 127 Net finance expense 110 115 1.
In the prior year, the net interest receivable on loan note related derivatives was presented within finance income.
In the current year it has been included within finance expense, and the prior year comparatives re-presented accordingly.
Other interest charges include nil 2017: 2m relating to discounts unwound on provisions.
Tax 2018 2017 m m Current tax expense Current year 87 89 Adjustments in respect of prior years note vii 12 8 Total current tax expense 75 97 Deferred tax credit expense see note 33 Current year 30 42 Re-assessment of deferred tax recoverability on losses note vi 4 5 Adjustments in respect of prior years note vii 6 6 Total deferred tax credit expense 20 31 Total income tax expense for the year 55 128 UK corporation tax is calculated at 19% 2017: 19% of the estimated assessable profits for the year.
Overseas tax is calculated at the corporation tax rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
166 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 166 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the consolidated income statement as follows: 2017 1 2018 Restated m m Profit before tax 1 Continuing operations 143 387 Discontinued operations 2 6 1 Total profit before tax 145 381 Tax at UK corporation tax rate of 19% 2017: 19% 28 74 Items that are not deductible and other additions to taxable profit note i 15 20 Losses on disposal of businesses not relieved note ii 5 1 Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in non-UK jurisdictions note iii 13 23 Benefit of tax incentives and credits 3 5 Impact of phased reduction in UK rate to 17% 2 Adjustment for joint ventures 2 1 Tax losses not recognised in the current year note iv 1 2 Impact of US tax reforms note v 19 Re-assessment of deferred tax recoverability on losses note vi 4 5 Adjustment in respect of prior years current and deferred tax note vii 6 2 Total income tax charge 55 128 Effective tax rate for continuing and discontinued operations 38% 34% 1.
Restated for the effect of IFRS 15 see note 3.
The effective tax rate for continuing operations was 38% 2017: 33%.
i Items that are not deductible and other additions to taxable profit 15m 2017: 20m : reflects the tax effect of items which, in managements judgment, are potentially disallowable for the purposes of determining local taxable profits.
This includes unrelieved withholding taxes of 1m 2017: 8m relating to withholding tax deducted on domestic or cross-border payments in excess of the profits tax arising in the recipient company.
ii Losses on disposal of businesses not relieved 5m 2017: 1m : relates to losses arising on the disposal of businesses that are not allowable for tax or for which there are insufficient taxable profits available in the foreseeable future to utilise those losses.
iii Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in non-UK jurisdictions 13m 2017: 23m : arise because of the effect of profits of the Group being subject to tax at rates different from the current UK corporation tax rate of 19%.
iv Tax losses not recognised in the current year 1m 2017: 2m : relates to current-year losses not recognised as deferred tax assets on the basis that there are insufficient taxable profits available to utilise them in the foreseeable future.
v Impact of US tax reforms nil 2017: 19m : The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act introduced significant changes in US tax laws taking effect on 1 January 2018.
For 2017, the changes in legislation resulted in a one-off charge to the income statement of 19m which related to a revaluation of deferred tax asset balances due to the reduction in the US Federal tax rate and the impairment of foreign tax credits which were no longer expected to be utilisable in future periods against foreign source income.
vi Re-assessment of deferred tax recoverability on losses 4m 2017: 5 m : relates to the re-assessment of deferred tax assets on historical tax losses during the year as a result of updated group forecasts and business plans.
vii Adjustment in respect of prior years current and deferred tax 6 m 2017: 2m : relates to i changes in provisions for unresolved tax issues as a result of settlements with tax authorities: and ii a re-assessment of the recoverability of certain tax balances.
Issues relating to taxation The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves consideration of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be ultimately determined until final resolution has been reached through negotiation with the relevant tax authorities, or via a domestic or international dispute resolution process.
The global nature of the Groups operations means that the most significant tax risk is in relation to challenges from tax authorities in respect of the pricing of cross-border transactions and the Groups interpretation of the OECDs arms-length principle.
This risk is largely driven by the inherently subjective nature of transfer pricing and the divergent views taken by tax authorities.
In determining the appropriate level of provisions in respect of such challenges, the Group applies a risk-based approach which considers factors such as the quantum of the charge, the countries party to the transaction and the relevant statutes of limitation.
An assessment is also made of the likelihood that compensating adjustments will be obtained under the relevant tax treaties to mitigate the level of double taxation which could arise.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 167 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 167 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Tax continued As the Group operates in a significant number of countries, determining the appropriate level of judgment is typically influenced by the Groups evolving experience of tax controversy in different countries.
The Group has open tax periods in a number of countries involving a number of issues, with the most material disputes typically being in respect of cross-border transactions.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had total tax exposures of approximately 134m 2017: 153m of which 25m 2017: 48m is provided against.
The Group believes that it has made appropriate provision for open tax periods which have not yet been agreed by tax authorities.
The final agreed liabilities may vary from the amounts provided, as these are dependent upon the outcomes of the domestic and international dispute resolution processes in the relevant countries.
The Group typically has limited control over the timing of resolution of uncertain tax positions with tax authorities.
Acknowledging this inherent unpredictability, and on the basis of currently available information, the Group does not expect material changes to occur to the level of provisions against uncertain tax positions during the next twelve months.
The potential tax impacts which could arise as a consequence of the UK withdrawing from the European Union are dependent on the manner of the UKs withdrawal, but on the basis of current information the Group does not anticipate that significant additional tax liabilities will arise.
The following taxation charge has been recognised directly in equity within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 2018 2017 m m Tax relating to defined retirement benefit schemes 6 4 Change in fair value of net-investment and cash-flow hedging financial instruments 2 Total tax charged to other comprehensive income 8 4 14.
Dividends Pence DKK 2018 2017 per share per share m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders of the parent in the year Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 5.82 0.5029 90 Interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2017 3.59 0.2948 55 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 6.11 0.5097 95 Interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2018 3.59 0.2969 55 150 145 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 6.11 0.5321 95 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
If so approved, it will be paid on 14 June 2019 to shareholders who are on the register on 3 May 2019.
The Danish kroner exchange rate shown above for the dividend is that at 11 March 2019.
168 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 168 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 15.
Earnings per share attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 2017 1 2018 Restated m m From continuing and discontinued operations Earnings Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 82 237 2 Weighted-average number of ordinary shares m 1,547 1,548 Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations pence Basic and diluted 5.3p 15.3p From continuing operations Earnings Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 82 237 Adjustment to exclude profit loss for the year from discontinued operations net of tax 2 6 Profit from continuing operations 80 243 Earnings per share from continuing operations pence Basic and diluted 5.2p 15.7p From discontinued operations Earnings Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations net of tax 2 6 Earnings loss per share from discontinued operations pence Basic and diluted 0.1p 0.4 p 1.
Excluding shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust and accounted for as treasury shares see note 35.
Acquisitions The Group has not made any material acquisitions in the current or prior year.
During the year, the Group has invested 2m in the acquisition of two minor Secure Solutions businesses in Asia and Europe & Middle East 2017: invested 1m in minor acquisitions, and has also paid 2m in respect of acquisitions completed in prior years 2017: nil.
In addition, during the year, shareholder agreements were re-negotiated for certain joint ventures resulting in the Group obtaining control of these operations.
The Group committed to invest 21m in the acquisition of non-controlling interests in certain operations, primarily in Asia 2017: invested 16m primarily in Europe & Middle East.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 169 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 169 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
Disposals and closures During the year ended 31 December 2018 the Group sold nine businesses including the Groups businesses in Hungary and the Philippines, the archiving business in Kenya, and the Cash Solutions businesses in the United Arab Emirates, Colombia and Saudi Arabia, realising net cash consideration of 45m.
The Group also closed a small number of minor operations during the year, which together with the businesses sold generated Adjusted PBITA of 9 m in 2018 up to the date of disposal or closure for the year ended 31 December 2017: 3m.
In 2017 the Group sold nine businesses, including the Youth Services business in North America, the childrens homes business in the UK, the cash businesses in Peru and Paraguay, and the Groups businesses in Israel and Bulgaria, realising net cash consideration of 156m.
A further four businesses were closed during the prior year.
The net assets and net loss profit on disposal closure of operations disposed of or closed were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Goodwill 22 52 Other acquisition-related intangible assets 1 Property, plant and equipment 23 13 Other non-current assets 4 17 Current assets 51 78 Liabilities 38 61 Net assets of operations disposed of closed 62 100 Less: recycling from currency translation reserve 1 18 Net impact on the consolidated statement of financial position due to disposals closures 61 82 Fair value of retained investment in former joint venture 3 Loss profit on disposal closure of subsidiaries businesses 15 74 Total consideration 46 153 Satisfied by: Cash received 48 166 Net disposal costs paid 4 10 Additional net consideration received relating to disposals completed in prior years 1 Net cash consideration received in the year 45 156 Deferred consideration receivable 6 4 Accrued disposal and other costs 5 7 Total consideration 46 153 170 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 170 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 18.
Intangible assets Acquisition-related intangible assets  Goodwill Trademarks related Technology intangible assets Total 2018 m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 2,080 3 61 256 2,400 Additions 7 31 38 Disposals 15 5 20 Acquisition of a subsidiary 4 4 Re-classifications 1 1 Exchange differences 35 2 2 35 At 31 December 2018 2,105 3 66 284 2,458 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 2018 166 2 53 168 389 Amortisation charge 4 20 24 Disposals 1 5 6 Exchange differences 1 2 1 At 31 December 2018 166 2 55 184 407 Carrying amount At 1 January 2018 1,914 1 8 88 2,011 At 31 December 2018 1,939 1 11 100 2,051 2017 Cost At 1 January 2017 2,157 34 674 9 255 3,129 Additions 24 24 Disposals 2 2 Write-off of fully amortised intangible assets 32 599 9 17 657 Transferred to held for sale 9 7 16 Re-classifications 1 12 Exchange differences 66 14 80 At 31 December 2017 2,080 3 61 256 2,400 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 2017 167 32 658 9 169 1,035 Amortisation charge 2 8 22 32 Write-off of fully amortised intangible assets 32 599 9 17 657 Transferred to held for sale 1 67 Exchange differences 14 14 At 31 December 2017 166 2 53 168 389 Carrying amount At 1 January 2017 1,990 2 16 86 2,094 At 31 December 2017 1,914 1 8 88 2,011 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 171 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 171 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill allocation Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating units CGUs which are expected to benefit from that business combination.
A significant portion of the Groups goodwill was generated by the merger of the security services businesses of Group 4 Falck and Securicor in 2004, which was accounted for as an acquisition of Securicor by Group 4 Falck.
Goodwill impairment testing The Group tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that it may be impaired.
The Groups annual impairment test compares the carrying value of goodwill and other relevant non-current assets held by each CGU with the recoverable amount of each CGU as at 31 December each year.
The Group has historically identified CGUs for goodwill impairment testing purposes on a country-level basis including significant business units.
As a result of the Groups re-organisation into a Secure Solutions division and a Cash Solutions division from 1 January 2018, a number of CGUs that previously represented entire countries have been divided into separate Cash Solutions and Secure Solutions CGUs for the Groups 2018 goodwill impairment test.
The revised CGUs are consistent with the way in which the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker now reviews performance.
As a result, goodwill of 445m that was previously held at a country level has been allocated to new CGUs based on their relative fair values 243m to Secure Solutions and 202m to Cash Solutions.
Under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, an impairment is deemed to have occurred where the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than the carrying value of goodwill and other relevant non-current assets.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is generally determined by its value in use which is derived from discounted cash flow calculations.
The key inputs to the calculations are described below.
In certain circumstances, where market prices can be ascertained for example through recent transactions or by reference to normal industry standard multiples, the fair value less costs to sell is used as a basis for the recoverable amount.
Forecast cash flows All operating countries in the Group are required to submit a budget for the next financial year for the year ending 31 December 2019 and strategic plan forecasts for the two years following the budget year i. e. for the years ending 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2021 for both their Secure Solutions and Cash Solutions businesses.
Estimated future cash flows are based on these plan forecasts for the first three years, with year 4, year 5 and the terminal value projected by applying growth rates as set out in the growth rate section below.
Estimated future cash flows are discounted using country-specific risk-adjusted discount rates as described in the discount rate section.
Growth rates The following table demonstrates the application of growth rates to forecast cash flows: Growth assumptions Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Terminal value 1 Input Budget Strategic plan Strategic plan Projected to achieve Projected lower of Country-specific 1 1 forecast forecast midpoint between year 3 forecast or long-term 2 years 3 and 5 country-specific inflation rate 2 inflation rate Example 8% 7% 6% 4% 2% 2% 1.
Budgets and strategic plan forecasts are reviewed by the group board.
Sourced from the IMF website.
In this example, budgeted year 1 growth rate is 8%, forecast growth in year 2 is 7% and in year 3 is 6%.
The long-term country inflation rate is 2% so the year 4 growth rate is calculated to be the midpoint between 6% in year 3 and 2% in year 5, i. e. 4%.
The terminal value calculation applies the long-term inflation rate of 2%.
172 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 172 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Discount rates The following key inputs are used to calculate country-specific discount rates for all CGUs: Input How determined 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Risk-free rate Group The Groups risk-free rate is based on the UK government's 20 year gilt bond rates.
1.77% in UK 1.75% in UK Adjusted risk-free rate Country-specific risk free rates are derived for each CGU by adjusting the Groups risk- 2.3% in UK 2.3% in UK country specific free rate for both the relevant inflation rate differential between the UK and that CGUs country and by applying an appropriate country-specific risk premium sourced primarily from the IMF and New York University websites as well as other studies by independent economists.
Unleveraged beta Beta is a risk adjustment applied to the discount rate to reflect the risk of the Groups 0.75 for the 0.75 for the operating companies relative to the market as a whole.
The Groups beta is estimated Group Group by performing an analysis of comparable multi-national listed companies and is adjusted for the appropriate leverage of the Group.
Debt margin The Group applies a Group-wide debt margin to the country-specific risk free rates to 1.3% in UK 1.3% in UK obtain a cost of debt for each CGU.
The debt margin is determined by calculating the premium between the yield on a BBB-rated 15 year UK benchmark bond and the UK risk-free rate.
Weighted-average cost The weighted-average cost of capital is calculated by weighting the cost of equity and 9.5% in UK 9.1% in UK of capital pre-tax the cost of debt by the applicable debt to equity ratio at the year end.
The table below sets out the pre-tax discount rates and growth rates used for the Groups CGUs with significant goodwill balances: Long-term Long-term Goodwill Goodwill 1 1 growth rate growth rate Discount rate Discount rate 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m Brazil Secure Solutions 16.2% 15.6% 4.0% 4.0% 70 77 US Commercial Security Solutions 11.0% 10.1% 2.2% 2.3% 430 405 Netherlands Secure Solutions 7.3% 8.2% 2.1% 1.6% 76 75 UK Central Government Services 10.0% 9.1% 0.0% 2.0% 225 225 UK Secure Solutions 8.8% 8.7% 2.0% 2.0% 107 107 UK Integrated Solutions 10.0% 9.9% 2.0% 2.0% 79 79 UK Business & Outsourcing Solutions 8.9% 8.9% 2.0% 2.0% 65 65 Netherlands Cash Solutions 7.3% 8.2% 2.1% 1.6% 86 85 UK Cash Solutions 9.1% 8.9% 2.0% 2.0% 205 205 Other all allocated 596 591 Total goodwill 1,939 1,914 1.
Lower of long-term country inflation rate per the IMF and implied year 3 business forecast growth rate, restricted to a minimum of 0%.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 173 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 173 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18.
Intangible assets continued Sensitivity to key assumptions The key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow calculations relate to the discount rates and long-term growth rates used.
The table below shows the additional impairment that would arise from an increase in discount rates by 1% and 3% for example, increasing the UK base rate from 9.5% to 10.5% and 12.5% with all other variables being equal or a decrease in long-term growth rates by 1% and 3% to a minimum of 0% with all other variables being equal, for example, decreasing the UK long-term growth rate from 2.0% to 1.0% and 0.0% for the Group in total and for each of its countries that represent significant goodwill balances: Additional impairment Additional impairment 1% 3% Base 1% 3% Goodwill Base increase increase growth decrease decrease 1 2018 discount rate 2018 2018 rate 2018 2018 m 2018 m m 2018 m m 2 Brazil Secure Solutions 70 16.2% 2 7 4.0% 8 17 US Commercial Security Solutions 430 11.0% 2.2% Netherlands Secure Solutions 76 7.3% 2.1% UK Central Government Services 225 10.0% 0.0% UK Secure Solutions 107 8.8% 2.0% UK Integrated Solutions 79 10.0% 2.0% UK Business & Outsourcing Solutions 65 8.9% 2.0% Netherlands Cash Solutions 86 7.3% 2.1% 2 UK Cash Solutions 205 9.1% 1 20 2.0% 31 58 2 Other all allocated 596 2 4 6 14 Total 1,939 5 31 45 89 1.
Lower of the long-term country growth rate per the IMF and the implied year 3 business forecast growth rate, restricted to a minimum of 0%.
For certain CGUs, including Brazil Secure Solutions and UK Cash Solutions presented separately above, and South Africa Cash Solutions included within other above, with a goodwill balance of 16m, the impairment model indicated a potential impairment when applying sensitivities as presented in the table above.
For the UK Cash Solutions and Brazil Secure Solutions CGUs management is satisfied that the carrying value of goodwill is currently supported by fair value less costs to sell and therefore no impairment is required as at 31 December 2018.
For the South Africa Cash Solutions CGU, management is satisfied that the carrying value of goodwill is supported by value in use valuations taking into account expected performance improvement plans.
174 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 174 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 19.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Equipment buildings and vehicles Total 2018 m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 246 814 1,060 Additions 10 82 92 Disposals 10 104 114 Acquisition of a subsidiary 3 5 8 Transferred to held for sale net 17 2 19 Re-classifications 5 5 Exchange differences 2 9 11 At 31 December 2018 234 799 1,033 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January 2018 109 556 665 Depreciation charge 12 81 93 Disposals 5 89 94 Acquisition of a subsidiary 1 3 4 Transferred to held for sale net 8 2 10 Impairment 2 1 3 Re-classifications 5 5 Exchange differences 1 9 10 At 31 December 2018 112 554 666 Carrying amount At 1 January 2018 137 258 395 At 31 December 2018 122 245 367 Land and Equipment buildings and vehicles Total 2017 m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 255 933 1,188 Additions 11 73 84 Disposals 15 136 151 Transferred to held for sale 9 37 46 Re-classifications 5 1 4 Exchange differences 1 18 19 At 31 December 2017 246 814 1,060 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January 2017 109 642 751 Depreciation charge 13 91 104 Disposals 13 132 145 Transferred to held for sale 4 28 32 Re-classifications 5 1 4 Exchange differences 1 16 17 At 31 December 2017 109 556 665 Carrying amount At 1 January 2017 146 291 437 At 31 December 2017 137 258 395 The net book value of equipment and vehicles held under finance leases was 21m 2017: 26m.
Accumulated depreciation on these assets was 113m 2017: 109m and the depreciation charge for the year was 13m 2017: 16m.
The rights over assets held on finance leases are effectively security for lease liabilities.
These rights revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 175 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 175 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19.
Property, plant and equipment continued The net book value of equipment and vehicles includes 26m 2017: 25m of assets leased by the Group to third parties under operating leases.
Accumulated depreciation on these assets was 27m 2017: 28m and the depreciation charge for the year was 8m 2017: 9m.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises freeholds of 62m 2017: 68m, long leaseholds of 15m 2017: 17m and short leaseholds of 45m 2017: 52m.
Investment in joint ventures The following summarised aggregate financial information represents the Groups interest in joint ventures that are not material to the Group, based on the amounts reported in the Groups consolidated financial statements: 2018 2017 m m Carrying amount of interests in joint ventures 8 20 Groups share of: Profit from continuing operations 7 9 Total comprehensive income 7 9 21.
Inventories 2018 2017 m m Raw materials 9 8 Work in progress 14 12 Finished goods including consumables 90 84 Total inventories 113 104 22.
Investments Investments of 65m 2017: 62m comprise mainly listed securities and certificates of deposit stated at fair value based on quoted market prices consistent with Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy as explained in note 3 g. These amounts include 41m 2017: 42m held by the Groups wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries where use of the investments is restricted to the settlement of claims against those subsidiaries.
Trade and other receivables 2017 1 2018 Restated Notes m m Within current assets Accrued income 5 231 168 2 Trade debtors 5 1,065 1,071 Loss allowance 5 55 61 Receivables from customers in respect of cash-processing operations 25 6 7 2 Other debtors 103 106 Prepayments 64 64 2 Amounts due from construction contract customers 5 14 17 Derivative financial instruments at fair value 29 1 45 Total trade and other receivables included within current assets 1,429 1,417 Within non-current assets Derivative financial instruments at fair value 29 43 40 2 Other debtors 45 42 Total trade and other receivables included within non-current assets 88 82 1.
Due to the short-term nature of financial assets included within trade and other receivables, their carrying amount is considered to be the same as their fair value.
Contractual maturities of current trade and other receivables are less than one year.
176 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 176 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Credit risk on trade receivables The Groups customers are both large in number and dispersed geographically in around 90 countries.
The Group performs various services to a number of UK Government agencies which, in total, comprised approximately 6% of the total trade debtor balance as at 31 December 2018 2017: 6%.
The Group considers these individual Government agencies to be separate customers due to the limited economic integration between each agency.
Management is therefore satisfied that across the Groups total trade debtors as at 31 December 2018 there is no significant concentration risk.
Group companies are required to follow the Group Finance Manual guidelines with respect to assessing the credit-worthiness of potential customers.
These guidelines include processes such as obtaining approval for credit limits over a set amount, performing credit checks and assessments and obtaining additional security where required.
Credit terms vary across the Group and can range from 0 to 90 days to reflect the different risks within each country in which the Group operates.
Impairment of financial assets The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables and other contract assets being unbilled work in progress.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables and other contract assets have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.
The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of at least 36 months before the end of the relevant reporting year and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period.
The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors that the Group considers would affect the ability of its customers to settle the receivables.
The Group has identified the GDP rates of the countries in which it sells its goods and services to be the most relevant factors, and accordingly adjusts the historical loss rates based on expected changes in GDP rates.
On that basis, the loss allowance was determined as follows for both trade receivables and other contract assets: 1-30 days 31-60 days 61-180 days Over 181 days Current overdue overdue overdue overdue Total m m m m m m Expected loss rate 0.1% 0.7% 2.0% 4.7% 61.3% 4.2% Gross carrying amount - trade receivables and other contract assets see note 5 979 138 49 64 80 1,310 Loss allowance 31 December 2018 1 1 1 3 49 55 1-30 days 31-60 days Over 181 days 61-180 days Current overdue overdue overdue Total overdue m m m m m m Expected loss rate 0.3% 0.7% 2.2% 5.9% 74.6% 4.9% Gross carrying amount - trade receivables and other contract assets see note 5 947 142 45 51 71 1,256 Loss allowance 31 December 2017 3 1 1 3 53 61 The closing loss allowance for trade receivables and other contract assets as at 31 December 2018 reconciles to the opening loss allowance as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 61 65 1 Increase in loss allowance 14 21 Amounts written off during the year 15 16 2 Unused amounts reversed 5 6 Exchange differences 3 At 31 December 55 61 1.
In 2017, the increase in loss allowance included 4m in relation to discontinued operations.
Unused amounts reversed in 2018 includes 2m relating to discontinued operations, refer to note 7.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances The Groups DSO measure days sales outstanding for continuing operations based on revenue from the last 90 days of the year is 55 days 2017: 52 days.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 177 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 177 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24.
Disposal groups classified as held for sale As at 31 December 2018, disposal groups classified as held for sale related to a minor operation in Asia, which was sold in January 2019, and assets classified as held for sale related to property located in Europe & Middle East.
As at 31 December 2017, disposal groups classified as held for sale include the assets and liabilities associated with minor operations in Africa, Asia, the Americas and Europe & Middle East.
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Assets Goodwill 9 Property, plant and equipment and  intangible assets 9 16 Other non-current assets 1 Inventories 2 Trade and other receivables current 17 Cash and cash equivalents 8 Total assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 9 53 Liabilities Bank loans 2 Trade and other payables 1 12 Retirement benefit obligations 3 Deferred tax liability 1 Obligations under finance leases 1 Total liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale 1 19 Net assets of disposal groups 8 34 25.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts The Groups Cash Solutions businesses provide a range of cash handling and processing services on behalf of customers.
These services include the collection, segregated storage and delivery of customer cash, with title to the cash handled remaining with the customer throughout the process.
The cash involved in these services is never recorded in the Groups balance sheet.
A number of other cash-processing services are provided to customers, such as the sale and purchase of physical cash balances, and the replenishment of ATMs and similar machines from customer funds held in Group bank accounts.
These funds, which are generally settled within two working days, are classified as funds within cash-processing operations, along with the related balances due to and from customers in respect of unsettled transactions, and are included gross within the relevant balance sheet classifications as shown in the following table: 2018 2017 Funds within cash-processing operations m m Stocks of money, included within cash and cash equivalents 59 74 Overdraft facilities related to cash-processing operations, included within bank overdrafts 22 19 Liabilities to customers in respect of cash-processing operations, included within trade and other payables 43 62 Receivables from customers in respect of cash-processing operations, included within trade and other receivables 6 7 Funds within cash-processing operations net Whilst these cash and bank balances are not formally restricted by legal title, they are restricted by the Groups own internal policies to ensure that they are not used for the purposes of the Groups own operations.
For the purposes of the Groups consolidated statement of cash flow, funds within cash-processing operations are therefore recorded net of the related balances due to and from customers in respect of unsettled transactions, within cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts, and hence have no impact on the Groups statutory cash flow.
178 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 178 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 A reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year per the consolidated statement of financial position to the corresponding balances included within the consolidated statement of cash flow is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of financial position 1,015 902 Bank overdrafts in the consolidated statement of financial position 305 284 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts included within disposal groups classified as held for sale 8 Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 710 626 Add: Liabilities to customers in respect of cash-processing operations, included within trade and other payables 43 62 Receivables from customers in respect of cash-processing operations, included within trade and other receivables 6 7 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year in the consolidated statement of cash flow 673 571 Cash and cash equivalents comprise principally short-term money market deposits, current account balances and Group-owned cash held in ATM machines.
At 31 December 2018 cash and cash equivalents earned interest at a weighted-average rate of 0.95% 2017: 0.6%.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because wherever possible, and in accordance with Group Treasury policy, the cash is placed with bank counterparties that hold investment grade credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Cash and cash equivalents of 77m 2017: 71m are held by the Groups wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries.
Their use is restricted to the settlement of claims against the Groups captive insurance subsidiaries.
Bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes 2018 2017 m m Within current liabilities Bank overdrafts 305 284 Bank loans 12 8 Loan notes 464 655 Total bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes included within current liabilities 781 947 Within non-current liabilities Bank loans 293 5 Loan notes 1,533 1,486 Total bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes included within non-current liabilities 1,826 1,491 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 179 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 179 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
Bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes continued The table below sets out the details of Groups loan notes and bank loans all of which are measured at amortised cost.
2018 2017 Interest Carrying amount Carrying amount % m m Private placement 2008 GBP 44m Jul-18 7.56 44 Private placement 2008 USD 224m Jul-18 6.78 166 1 Private placement 2007 USD 145m Mar-19 5.96 114 111 1 Private placement 2007 USD 105m Mar-22 6.06 89 87 Private placement 2008 USD 74.5m Jul-20 6.88 59 55 Total private loan notes 262 463 2 Public bond 2012 EUR 500m Dec-18 2.625 445 Public bond 2009 GBP 350m May-19 7.75 350 350 Public bond 2016 EUR 500m Jan-23 1.5 448 443 2 Public bond 2017 EUR 500m Jun-24 1.5 447 440 Public bond 2018 EUR 550m May-25 1.88 490 Total public loan notes 1,735 1,678 Term credit facility USD 350m Aug-21 Floating 275 3 Revolving credit facility GBP 750m Aug-23 Floating Other bank loans Various Various Various Floating 30 13 Total bank loans 305 13 1.
$250m 196m of private loan notes are held in a fair value hedge relationship and are remeasured to reflect the fair value of the hedged risk.
The effect of this remeasurement was a cumulative 7m increase being included in the carrying amount shown above 2017: increase of 13m.
As at December 2018 100m 90m of the May 2017 public bonds are held in a fair value hedge relationship and are remeasured to reflect the fair value of the hedged interest rate risk.
The effect of this remeasurement was a cumulative 1m increase being included in the carrying amount shown above 2017: nil.
As at December 2017 120m 107m of the December 2012 public bond was also held in a fair value hedge relationship and remeasured to reflect the fair value of the hedged interest rate risk.
The effect of this remeasurement was a cumulative 1m being included in the carrying amount shown above.
During the year the Group amended the available revolving credit facility, reducing it from 1bn to 750m while extending the maturity for a further one and a half years to August 2023.
In May 2018 the Group issued a 550m public bond which matures in May 2025 and pays an annual coupon of 1.875%.
At the same time the Group entered into a cross currency swap to hedge the foreign currency risk on 400m of this bond and designated this relationship as a cash flow hedge.
Details of the Groups hedging policy are set out in note 29.
The Groups average cost of gross borrowings, net of interest hedging, was 3.9% 2017: 4.1%.
Compliance with loan covenants The Group has complied with the financial covenants of its borrowing facilities during the 2018 and 2017 reporting periods see note 30 for details.
Fair value The carrying amounts of bank overdrafts and current bank loans are considered to be the same as their fair values due to their short-term nature.
The carrying amounts of non-current bank loans other than the term credit facility are considered to be materially the same as their fair values.
The carrying amount and fair value of the loan notes and term credit facility are summarised in the table below: Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value 2018 2018 2017 2017 1 Level m m m m Public loan notes 1 1,735 1,729 1,678 1,742 Private loan notes 2 262 267 463 467 Term credit facility 2 275 281 1.
Fair value hierarchy level, as explained in note 3 g. The fair values of the Groups public loan notes are determined using Level 1 inputs as explained in note 3 g. The fair values of Groups private loan notes and the term credit facility are measured using techniques consistent with Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy and are calculated using discounted cash flow models.
The relevant currency-yield curve is used to forecast the floating-rate cash flows anticipated under the instrument, which are discounted back to the balance sheet date.
Risk exposures Details of the Groups exposure to risks arising from current and non-current borrowings are set out in note 30.
180 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 180 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 27.
Obligations under finance leases Present value of Present value of Minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 13 15 11 15 In the second to fifth years inclusive 16 20 15 19 After five years 1 1 1 1 30 36 27 35 Less: future finance charges on finance leases 3 1 Present value of lease obligations 27 35 Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months presented within current liabilities 11 15 Amount due for settlement after 12 months presented within non-current liabilities 16 20 The Group leases certain of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
The weighted-average lease term is six years 2017: six years.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, the weighted-average effective borrowing rate was 3.5% 2017: 5.7%.
Interest rates are fixed at the related contract dates.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors charges over the leased assets.
Trade and other payables 2017 1 2018 Restated Notes m m Within current liabilities: 2 Trade creditors 242 249 Amounts due to  customers 5, 23 2 2 Other taxation and social security costs 198 206 2 Holiday pay and other wage-related accruals 358 370 2 Liabilities to customers in respect of cash-processing operations 25 43 62 2 Other creditors 87 62 2 Other accruals 235 241 Deferred income 5 72 64 Derivative financial instruments at fair value 29 7 Total trade and other payables included within current liabilities 1,237 1,263 Within non-current liabilities: Derivative financial instruments at fair value 29 11 6 Deferred income 5 15 18 2 Other creditors 12 11 Total trade and other payables included within non-current liabilities 38 35 1.
The financial liabilities included within trade and other payables are held at amortised cost and their carrying amount is considered to be materially the same as their fair value, primarily due to their short-term nature.
The contractual maturities of current trade and other payables are less than one year.
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and on-going costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases for continuing operations is 39 days 2017: 42 days.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 181 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 181 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
Derivative financial instruments The carrying values of derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date are presented below: Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Interest rate swaps - Fair value hedges 9 15 1 Interest rate swaps - Not in a hedging relationship 1 1 Cross currency swaps - Cash flow hedges 35 54 9 Cross currency swaps - Net investment hedges 10 16 2 Total 44 11 85 13 Current portion 1 45 7 Non-current portion 43 11 40 6 Total 44 11 85 13 Classification of derivatives Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments.
The Groups exposure to financial risk includes: interest rate risk on the Groups variable rate borrowings: fair value risk on the Groups fixed rate borrowings: commodity risk in relation to the Groups diesel consumption: and foreign exchange risk on transactions, including translation of the Groups results and net assets measured in foreign currencies.
The Group manages these risks using a range of derivative financial instruments which may include interest rate swaps, fixed rate agreements, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward currency contracts and currency swaps.
Derivatives are presented as current assets or liabilities to the extent they are to be settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not designated or do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
The Group's hedge accounting policy is set out in note 3 g. Further information about the derivatives used by the Group is provided in note 30.
Fair value Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value, measured using techniques consistent with Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy as explained in note 3 g. Their fair values are calculated using discounted cash flow models.
The relevant currency yield curve is used to forecast the floating rate cash flows anticipated under the instrument, which are discounted back to the balance sheet date.
Hedging reserves The hedging reserves include the cash flow hedge reserve and the cost of hedging reserve.
The cash flow hedge reserve records the effective portion of gains or losses on derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges.
The cost of hedging reserve includes the deferred currency basis spread from cross currency interest rate swaps used for cash flow hedging and also the deferred currency basis spread and forward points from cross currency interest rate swaps used for net investment hedging see note 3 g. The amount deferred for the year from cash flow hedges net of tax is nil 2017: nil and from net investment hedges is 3m 2017: nil.
The Groups hedging reserves are disclosed in note 35 and are analysed in detail below: Cost of hedging Cash flow hedge Total hedging Cost of hedging Cash flow hedge Total hedging 1 1 1 1 reserve reserve reserves reserve reserve reserves 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m At 1 January 2 Add: change in fair value 4 32 28 21 21 3 Less: transferred to income statement 17 17 21 21 Less: deferred tax 1 3 2 At 31 December 3 12 9 1.
Following the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the Group has separately presented the cost of hedging reserve that was previously incorporated into the cash flow hedge reserve, as explained in note 3 g. The balance of the cost of hedging reserve as at 31 December 2017 was nil and is unchanged compared with the balance prior to the adoption of IFRS 9.
Recognised in other comprehensive income.
The amount transferred to the income statement was offset by an equal and opposite foreign exchange movement arising on the hedge loan notes so that the net impact on the consolidated income statement was nil.
182 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 182 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Hedge effectiveness Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship and periodically thereafter to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument.
Cross currency interest rate swaps The Group uses the cumulative dollar offset method to assess the effectiveness of its hedges.
This method calculates the ratio of the cumulative changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument excluding credit risk and excluding currency basis spread, divided by the cumulative changes in fair value of the hypothetical derivative which does not include credit risk or currency basis attributable to changes in the hedged risk.
The hypothetical derivative is used as a proxy for the net present value of the hedged future cash flows of the hedged item and would result in the hedging instrument perfectly hedging the hedged risk based on market prices at the date of designation.
There was no ineffectiveness recorded during 2018 or 2017 in relation to cross currency swaps.
Interest rate swaps The hedging instrument is carried at its fair value with any changes in fair value taken to profit or loss.
The change in fair value of the hedged risk, as measured by the change in fair value of hedged cash flows attributable to changes in the base currency Libor curve, adjusts the carrying amount of the debt and is also recorded in profit or loss.
The net effect recorded in the consolidated income statement for 2018 was nil 2017: nil.
Financial risk The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
The Group's financial risk management is predominantly delegated to and controlled by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the board of directors.
Group Treasury evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Group's operating units.
Where all relevant criteria are met, hedge accounting is applied to remove mismatches between the accounting for hedging instruments and hedged items.
The effect of this accounting is effectively to recognise interest expense at a floating rate for the hedged fixed rate loan notes and to recognise Euro bond debt at a fixed currency exchange rate to Sterling.
The Group documents the economic relationship between derivatives designated as hedging instruments and hedged items at the inception of the hedge, including its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The Group further documents the expected outcome of the hedge i. e. whether forecast cash flows offset for cash flow hedges, fair value movements offset for fair value hedges and foreign exchange movements offset for net investment hedges.
Capital management In April 2018, Standard & Poors revised the Groups long-term credit rating to BBBstable 2017: BBBnegative.
The Groups policy is to continue to manage its capital structure to retain an investment-grade rating.
The Groups policy objective is a net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio of less than 2.5x.
In August 2018 the Group arranged a US$350m term facility, maturing in August 2021, which was fully drawn.
It also amended the available revolving credit facility, reducing it from 1bn to 750m while extending the maturity for a further one and a half years to August 2023.
As at 31 December 2018 there were no drawings from this facility.
The debt maturities in 2019 comprise the US$145m US Private Placement notes repaid in March 2019 and the 350m public bond due in May 2019.
Overall the debt portfolio has a medium to long-term debt maturity profile.
While the Group is currently well placed to access finance from the debt-capital markets and from the bank market, if required, a 300m bridge facility has also been arranged in January 2019 for one year.
Borrowings are principally in Sterling, US Dollars and Euros reflecting the geographies of the Group's significant operational assets and profits.
The committed bank facilities and the private loan notes are subject to one financial covenant based on a net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio where Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as Group Adjusted PBITA plus depreciation and amortisation of  intangible assets and non-compliance with the covenant may lead to an acceleration of maturity.
The Group has complied with the financial covenants of its borrowing facilities during the 2018 and 2017 reporting periods.
The calculation of the Revolving Credit Facility covenant is based on historical frozen GAAP as at 31 December 2017 and so will be unchanged on adoption of i. e. calculated excluding the effect of IFRS 16 - Leases.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 183 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 183 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Financial risk continued Liquidity risk The Group mitigates liquidity risk by ensuring there are sufficient undrawn committed facilities available to it.
For more details of the Groups bank overdrafts, bank loans and loan notes see note 26.
The percentage of the available committed Revolving Credit Facility that was undrawn during the course of the year was as follows: 31 December 2017 100% 31 March 2018 100% 30 June 2018 100% 30 September 2018 100% 31 December 2018 100% To reduce re-financing risk, Group Treasury obtains finance with a range of maturities to minimise the impact of a single material source of finance terminating on a single date.
The risk is further reduced by opening negotiations either to replace or extend any major medium-term facility at least 12 months before the maturity date.
Maturity profile of loans and borrowings The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities presented within borrowings into relevant maturity groupings based on their contractual undiscounted cash flow maturities.
Details about non-borrowings financial liabilities are included in note 28.
Between Between Within 1 year 1 and 3 years 3 and 5 years Over 5 years Total Contractual maturities as at 31 December 2018 m m m m m Non-derivatives 1 Bank overdrafts 283 283 Bank loans 23 308 5 336 Private loan notes 126 72 85 283 Public bonds 400 45 495 969 1,909 Finance lease liabilities 13 13 3 1 30 Total non-derivatives 845 438 583 975 2,841 Derivatives 2 Interest rate swaps 4 4 2 1 11 3 Cross currency swaps : Inflow 24 48 291 1,092 1,455 Outflow 40 80 320 1,086 1,526 Total derivatives 12 28 27 7 60 Between Between Within 1 year 1 and 3 years 3 and 5 years Over 5 years Total Contractual maturities as at 31 December 2017 m m m m m Non-derivatives 1 Bank overdrafts 265 265 Bank loans 8 5 13 Private loan notes 239 182 91 512 Public bonds 497 404 27 907 1,835 Finance lease liabilities 15 14 5 1 35 Total non-derivatives 1024 605 123 908 2660 Derivatives 2 Interest rate swaps 8 5 4 1 16 3 Cross currency swaps : Inflow 379 35 36 1,005 1,455 Outflow 348 56 55 940 1,399 Total derivatives 39 16 15 64 72 1.
Excluding cash and overdraft balances in respect of cash-processing operations see note 25.
Interest rate swaps are net settled.
Cross currency swaps are gross settled.
184 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 184 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Analysis of the Groups financial assets and liabilities presented within borrowings by currency is as follows: Sterling Euros US dollars Others Total m m m m m Bank overdrafts 226 18 8 53 305 Bank loans 2 2 285 16 305 Loan notes 350 1,385 262 1,997 At 31 December 2018 578 1,405 555 69 2,607 Bank overdrafts 145 17 86 36 284 Bank loans 2 11 13 Loan notes 394 1,328 419 2,141 At 31 December 2017 539 1,345 507 47 2,438 Set-off of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
There were no material amounts offset in the consolidated statement of financial position or associated with enforceable master netting agreements.
Market risk Currency risk and forward-currency contracts The Group conducts business in many countries but, wherever possible, each business operates and conducts its financing activities in local currency limiting transactional currency risk.
The Group presents its consolidated financial statements in Sterling and is therefore subject to foreign-exchange risk due to the translation of the results and net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
Cross currency swaps held in cash flow hedges Cross currency swaps are designated as cash flow hedges against the final settlement of Euro-denominated public bonds to mitigate the functional currency cash flow exposure on its principal and interest payments.
The Groups policy is to hedge against movements in spot rates.
Inherent forward points are seen as an unavoidable cost of hedging and are recognised in other comprehensive income and included in the cost of hedging reserve.
Hedging: net investment hedges Treasury policy is to manage significant translation risks in respect of net operating assets held in foreign currencies and its consolidated net debt Adjusted EBITDA ratio by holding foreign currency denominated loans and cross currency swaps.
Adjustments arising on the translation of foreign currency loans and on changes in the fair value of cross currency swaps meeting hedge accounting criteria are recognised in equity to match translation adjustments on foreign currency equity investments as they qualify as net investment hedges.
Translation adjustments arising on intercompany loans the Group has identified as quasi-equity in nature are also recognised in equity.
Items held in net investment hedge Change in value of Change in value of Change in value of Change in value of hedging instrument hedged item hedging instrument hedged item 2018 2018 2017 2017 Hedging instrument Maturity Hedge ratio m m m m Loan notes Mar-17 Mar-22 1:1 17 17 37 37 Public bonds May-17 May-25 1:1 6 6 12 12 Cross currency swaps Jun-24 1:1 20 20 15 15 Bank overdrafts and revolving credit facility Short-term and Aug-23 1:1 1 1 16 16 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 185 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 185 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Financial risk continued At 31 December 2018 the nominal amount of the hedging instruments held in net investment hedge was 931m 2017: 1,128m and the nominal amounts of the hedged risk were US$645m and 473m 2017: US$948m and 480m.
The items held in a net investment hedge mitigate the net asset translation exposure arising from movements in non-functional currencies.
Where applicable, any costs of hedging are deferred to the cost of hedging reserve note 3 g. At 31 December 2018, the Group had hedged approximately 74% 2017: 91% of US dollar denominated net assets and 84% 2017: 90% of Euro denominated net assets.
Sensitivity Applying the relative movements in US dollar and Euro foreign exchange rates against Sterling in 2018 compared with 2017 to carrying values at 31 December 2018, the fair value net gain on the cross currency swaps which hedge part of the currency loan notes would have increased by 10m 2017: 33m with a direct impact on the consolidated income statement.
This would be offset by an equal and opposite revaluation to the underlying bonds.
Any of the underlying bonds not in a cash flow hedge are in a net investment hedge relationship so that ultimately there is no impact on the consolidated income statement.
Interest-rate risk and interest-rate swaps A significant portion of the Groups debt is issued at fixed rate, but where there are borrowings at floating rates the Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk.
This risk is largely offset by cash holdings also at floating rates.
Therefore group policy is to maintain a proportion of its debt within the range 25% - 75% at fixed rate, using interest rate swaps where necessary.
As at 31 December 2018, 69% 2017: 73% of the Groups borrowings were held at fixed rates.
Interest rate swaps are currently held to convert part of the fixed loan note and public bond debt to variable rate.
These are held in a fair value hedge relationship with the debt items as identified in note 26.
The settlement dates coincide with the dates that interest is payable on the underlying debt with the exception of the public bond where interest is paid annually.
All four public notes have a coupon step-up of 1.25% which is triggered if the credit rating of G4S plc falls below investment grade.
Sensitivity The Group's core borrowings are held in US dollar, Euro and Sterling.
Although the impact of rising interest rates is partly shielded by fixed rate loans and interest rate swaps which provide certainty on the majority of the exposure, some interest rate risk remains.
A 1% increase in interest rates across all borrowings would lead to an additional interest charge of approximately 7m 2017: 6m.
Commodity risk and commodity swaps The Groups principal commodity risk relates to the fluctuating level of diesel prices, particularly affecting its Cash Solutions businesses.
Commodity swaps and commodity options are, on occasion, used to fix synthetically part of the exposure and reduce the associated cost volatility.
The hedging programme is under evaluation and, as a consequence, there was no commodity hedging in place at 31 December 2018.
186 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 186 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Counterparty credit risk The Groups strategy for credit risk management is to set minimum credit ratings for counterparties and to monitor these on a regular basis.
For treasury-related transactions, the Groups policy limits the aggregate credit risk assigned to a counterparty.
The utilisation of a credit limit is calculated by applying a weighting to the notional value of each transaction outstanding with each counterparty based on the type and duration of the transaction.
The total mark-to-market value outstanding with each counterparty is also closely monitored against policy limits assigned to each counterparty.
For short-term transactions under one year, the financial counterparty must be investment-grade rated by either the Standard & Poors or Moodys rating agencies.
For long-term transactions, unless otherwise approved, the financial counterparty must have a minimum rating of BBB Baa1 from Standard & Poors or Moodys.
Treasury transactions are dealt with through the Groups relationship banks, all of which have a strong investment grade rating.
Therefore, the credit risk on derivative transactions is not significant.
The Group operates a multi-currency notional pooling cash management system with a wholly-owned subsidiary of an A-rated bank.
At year end, credit balances of 336m 2017: 271m were pooled with debit balances of 263m 2017: 260m, resulting in a net pool credit balance of 73m 2017: 11m.
There exists a legal right of set-off under the pooling agreement and an overdraft facility of 3m 2017: 3m.
In accordance with IFRS Interpretations Committee requirements, the cash and overdraft pool balances are presented gross in the consolidated statement of financial position.
At an operating level the minimum investment-grade rating criteria applies.
Exceptionally, where required by local country circumstances, counterparties with no rating or a non-investment grade rating can be approved as counterparties for a period of up to 12 months.
Due to the Groups global geographical footprint and exposure to multiple industries, the Group considers there to be minimal concentration risk.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a wide range of retirement benefit arrangements which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
These include funded defined contribution, multi-employer and funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes.
Defined contribution arrangements The majority of the retirement benefit arrangements operated by the Group are of a defined contribution structure, where the employer contribution and resulting income statement charge is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employees pay.
Contributions made to defined contribution schemes in 2018 and charged to the consolidated income statement totalled 59m 2017: 67m.
In the UK, following the closure of the defined benefit schemes to new entrants in 2004, the main scheme for new employees is a contracted-in defined contribution scheme.
Multi-employer arrangement In the Netherlands, most employees are members of the Security Industry Wide Pension Fund IWPF.
G4S employees make up about a quarter of the active membership of this scheme.
Withdrawal from the scheme is only possible under certain strict conditions determined by Dutch law and by the pension fund board of the IWPF.
The scheme pays a pension based on the average of a members earnings over their career in the industry.
Pensionable salary is subject to a cap and an offset that reflects social security levels.
Annual pension increases for members are conditional, meaning they are set as a percentage of the relevant inflation measure for the pension concerned, where the percentage depends on the funding level.
The current solvency ratio is 107.7% December 2018 which exceeds the minimum solvency level of 104.2%.
According to Dutch law the plans funding must aim to target a required funding ratio within 10 years, that level is 122.3 % as at 31 December 2018.
The scheme is funded by an annual contribution that is set by the IWPF board in line with the financing rules that state that the premium should cover the cost of the annual accrual of pension benefits.
The employer pays 60% of contributions and the employees the remaining 40%.
As of 1 January 2019 the premium is 37.6% of pensionable salaries.
The financing rules specify that an employer is not obliged to pay any further premiums in respect of previously accrued benefits.
This means that in case of insufficient funding, the benefits of participants could, in theory, be reduced.
However the board of the IWPF has some flexibility in setting the contribution level, for example it could maintain a contribution rate that is above the calculated minimum and use the difference to improve the funding level.
Any reduction in premium due to surplus would only be possible at much higher solvency levels than present.
It is not possible to identify the Groups share of the IWPFs assets and liabilities.
As a result, and in line with general practice for such schemes, the scheme is accounted for as if it were a defined contribution scheme under IAS 19.
Premiums paid to the scheme by the Group and charged to the consolidated income statement in 2018 totalled 11m 2017: 11m.
The estimated premium expected to be paid to the scheme during 2019 is approximately 12m.
The parties to the collective agreement governing the IWPF have agreed that it will be converted to a Collective Defined Contribution scheme from 2020, with a fixed contribution rate equal to the 2018 level.
Details of the new arrangement will be determined in 2019.
Separately, the Dutch government has been negotiating with employers organisations and trades unions on proposed changes to the countrys pension system.
Whilst current discussions have stalled, G4S will monitor any further proposals including for any potential cost implications.
The Netherlands Cash Solutions Pension Plan the Cash Solutions scheme is a separate scheme operated by the Group in respect of members service to 2016, at which date members joined the IWPF.
Benefits including pension indexation have to be at least equivalent to the IWPFs benefits.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 187 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 187 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Defined benefit arrangements The Group operates several funded defined retirement benefit schemes where the benefits are based on employees length of service.
Whilst the Groups primary scheme is in the UK, it also operates the Cash Solutions scheme in the Netherlands and other less material plans elsewhere.
For funded arrangements, the assets of defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds or similar structures in the countries concerned.
Consolidated income statement The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement in relation to the material funded schemes are included within the following categories: 2018 2017 m m Cost of sales 4 4 Administration expenses 1 2 Net finance costs 7 8 Specific items guaranteed minimum pension equalisation charge 35 Total for material funded defined benefit schemes 47 14 There are also various less material unfunded arrangements, for which the Group does not hold related assets separate from the Group.
In aggregate, other unfunded arrangements incurred 15m 2017: 10m of costs within cost of sales and finance costs of 4m 2017: 3m.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Re-measurements of the net defined benefit obligation are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
These comprise the impact on the net defined benefit liability of changes in demographic and financial assumptions compared with the start of the year, actual experience being different to those assumptions and the return on plan assets above the amount included in the net pension interest expense.
During the year the Group recognised a total net re-measurement gain of 38m 2017: 26m within other comprehensive income OCI comprising a re-measurement gain of 38m 2017: gain of 29m relating to material funded defined benefit schemes offset by a re-measurement loss of nil 2017: loss of 3m relating to unfunded or other funded defined benefit schemes.
188 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 188 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Consolidated statement of financial position The Groups net defined benefit deficit recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2018 was 364m 2017: 381m, or 302m 2017: 318m net of applicable tax in the relevant jurisdictions.
The defined benefit obligations DBO and assets for defined benefit schemes are as follows: DBO Assets Deficit surplus 2018 m m m UK sections: Securicor 1,781 1,564 217 Group 4 394 323 71 GSL 257 332 75 Total UK 2,432 2,219 213 Netherlands 97 62 35 Total for material funded defined benefit schemes 2,529 2,281 248 Total provision for unfunded and other funded defined benefit schemes 116 Total net provision for all defined benefit schemes 364 DBO Assets Deficit surplus 2017 m m m UK sections: Securicor 1,911 1,658 253 Group 4 414 337 77 GSL 270 350 80 Total UK 2,595 2,345 250 Netherlands 96 63 33 Total for material funded defined benefit schemes 2,691 2,408 283 Total provision for unfunded and other funded defined benefit schemes 98 Total net provision for all defined benefit schemes 381 UK defined benefit scheme The defined benefit scheme in the UK accounts for 86% 2017: 88% of the net balance sheet liability for material funded defined retirement benefit schemes.
It comprises three sections: the Group 4 section which is the pension scheme demerged from the former Group 4 Falck A S, the Securicor section, for which the Group assumed responsibility on 20 July 2004 with the acquisition of Securicor plc, and the GSL section, for which the Group assumed responsibility on 12 May 2008 with the acquisition of GSL.
The UK scheme is closed to future accrual apart from some sub-sections of the GSL section, and for most members defines the pension based on final salary.
Certain sub-sections of the GSL section have historically remained open to provide a facility to accept former public-sector employees who join the Group through outsourcings.
In the Group 4 and Securicor sections, members retain their link to final salary where appropriate on their benefits accrued up to closure in 2011.
As at 5 April 2018 the effective date of the actuarial funding valuation that is currently in progress the participants of the UK pension scheme sections can be analysed as follows: GSL Securicor Group 4 At 5 April 2018 section section section Total Active participants Number 372 372 Average age N A N A 50.4 50.4 Deferred participants Number 7,295 3,083 1,140 11,518 Average age 54.6 54.0 51.6 54.1 Pensioner participants Number 9,733 3,466 1,102 14,301 Average age 73.4 72.2 66.6 72.6 There is a mix of fixed and inflation-dependent pension increases in payment and deferment which vary from member to member according to their membership history and the section of the scheme.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 189 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 189 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The discounted weighted-average duration of the accrued liabilities of the sections is as follows: 2018 2017 Years Years Securicor 17 18 Group 4 17 17 GSL 19 19 The chart below provides an illustrative view of how the benefit payments from the UK pension scheme are expected to reduce the obligation over time.
It shows the percentage of the 31 December 2018 DBO that relates to benefits that remain to be paid out at each future date.
100 80 60 40 20 0 Year ending 31 December The scheme is set up under UK law and governed by a Trustee company which is responsible for the schemes investments, administration and management.
The Board of the Trustee company comprises an independent chairman and further appointees who are made up of scheme membership representatives and company appointees.
A funding valuation is carried out for the schemes Trustee every three years by an independent firm of actuaries and the 5 April 2018 valuation is currently underway.
The current schedule of deficit recovery contributions as set out in the previous April 2015 valuation, provides for a contribution of approximately 52m during 2019.
During the April 2018 valuation process a new schedule of future contributions will be negotiated: the company has guaranteed any contributions due from its subsidiaries.
In addition, the company has pledged a share of any material disposal proceeds to the pension scheme to be shared in the same proportion as the pension scheme deficit bears to overall group indebtedness.
The Group has concluded that it should allow for a refund of any residual surplus in all three sections of the UK Scheme assuming wind-up after all benefits have been paid in the normal course of events.
Therefore no adjustments for asset ceiling or additional liabilities under the IFRIC 14 interpretation are made.
At present the GSL section has a surplus and the other two sections have deficits.
The IASB is proposing to amend IFRIC 14 and the Group will assess if there are any implications once the final form of the revised interpretation is clarified.
On 26 October 2018, the High Court handed down its judgment in the Lloyds case relating to equalisation of member benefits for the gender effects of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions GMP equalisation.
While the judgment relates to the Lloyds Banking Group schemes, it is expected to create a precedent for other UK defined benefit schemes with GMPs.
The judgment confirmed that GMP equalisation was required and provided some clarification on legally acceptable methods for achieving equalisation.
Consequently, the DBO has been increased by 35m, which has been separately disclosed in the consolidated income statement.
Principal risks The Groups pension schemes create a number of risk exposures.
Annual increases in benefits are, to a varying extent from scheme to scheme, dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable are future inflation levels including the impact of inflation on future salary increases and the actual longevity of the membership.
Benefits payable will also be influenced by a range of other factors including member decisions on matters such as when to retire and the possibility to draw benefits in different forms.
190 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 190 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Percentage of 31 December 2018 DBO remaining 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030 2032 2034 2036 2040 2042 2044 2046 2048 2050 2052 2054 2056 2058 2060 2062 2064 2066 2068 2070 2072 2074 2076 2078 A key risk is that additional contributions are required if the investment returns fall short of those anticipated when setting the contributions to the pension plans.
For the UK funding valuation those assumed investment returns for funding valuations are set based on fixed margins over the LIBOR swap curve.
The management of the UK pension fund assets has been delegated to an asset manager, who manages the assets against a liability benchmark.
The key parameters of this mandate can be summarised as follows: Risk Description Mitigation Asset mix The plan assets may fall in value.
The assets are managed dynamically over time rather than a set strategic allocation.
Interest rate risk The plan assets may fall in value as a result of a fall in Managed with the benchmark of hedging 100% of these risks as a interest rates.
percentage of the asset value through the use of debt instruments government bonds and derivatives.
Inflation risk The plan assets may fall in value as a result of rise in Managed with the benchmark of hedging 100% of these risks as a inflation.
Currency risk Any plan assets held in foreign currencies are Managed with the objective of hedging at least 70% of the overseas exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange currency exposure in the portfolio through the use of forward foreign rates.
Regulatory risk All pension schemes are regulated by the relevant G4S monitors changes in regulations in the UK and the Netherlands jurisdictions.
These include extensive legislation and to assess the potential impact these changes could have on the regulatory mechanisms that are subject to change Groups material pension schemes.
and may impact the Groups pension schemes.
Actuarial Actuarial assumptions made on a range The UK pension trustees have adopted investment strategies to assumptions risk of demographic and financial matters that are used to mitigate changes in key assumptions applied to the valuation of project the expected benefit payments including pension liabilities for funding purposes.
These strategies mainly hedge future inflation, salary growth and life expectancy.
against interest rate and inflation expectations generally, as described The DBO and service cost are also very sensitive to above, but do not specifically seek to hedge against changes in credit the IAS 19 discount rate, which determines the spreads that also affect the IAS 19 discount rate.
As a result the discounted value of the projected benefit payments.
difference between the market value of the assets and the valuation The discount rate depends on market yields on highof the pension obligations under IAS 19 may be volatile.
Financial assumptions and sensitivity analysis The weighted averages for each of the principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows: UK Netherlands years years Key assumptions used at 31 December 2018 Discount rate 2.85% 2.0% Expected rate of salary increases 3.3% N A Pension increases in payment for the UK, at RPI with a limit of 5% p. a.
3.1% Inflation RPI for UK 3.2% 1.7% Key assumptions used at 31 December 2017 Discount rate 2.55% 2.0% Expected rate of salary increases 3.3% N A Pension increases in payment for the UK, at RPI with a limit of 5% p. a.
3.1% 1.2% Inflation RPI for UK 3.2% 1.8% RPI with a limit of 5% p. a. is the most common level of increase in the UK arrangements.
Assumptions for other increases are derived from the above inflation assumption for RPI, and an annual CPI assumption of 2.2% 2017: 2.2% as appropriate.
Pension increase assumption is a ladder starting from 0% p. a. in 2019 increasing to 1.7% p. a. in 2032.
IAS 19 specifies that pension liabilities should be discounted at appropriate high quality corporate bond rates.
The Group considers that it is appropriate to consider AA-rated corporate bonds as high quality and has therefore used discount rates based on yields on such bonds corresponding to the liability profile of the respective schemes.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 191 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 191 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The effect of a movement in the discount rate applicable in the UK would alter reported liabilities before associated deferred tax adjustments by approximately the amounts shown in the table below.
Increase decrease in the Increase decrease in the DBO of the UK scheme DBO of the UK scheme 2018 2017 Sensitivity analysis m m Discount rate assumption being 0.5% higher 186 220 Discount rate assumption being 0.5% lower 213 242 The effect of a movement in RPI inflation applicable in the UK would alter reported liabilities before associated deferred tax adjustments by approximately the amounts shown in the table below: Increase decrease in the Increase decrease in the DBO of the UK scheme DBO of the UK scheme 2018 2017 Sensitivity analysis m m Inflation assumption being 0.5% higher 83 90 Inflation assumption being 0.5% lower 84 95 The above sensitivities allow for inflation-dependent assumptions such as salary growth and relevant pension increases to vary corresponding to the inflation assumption variation.
Due to the caps and floors on pension increases a certain movement in the inflation assumption will not generally result in the same movement in the pension increase assumption.
Demographic assumptions and sensitivity analysis In addition to the above, the Group uses appropriate mortality assumptions when calculating the schemes obligations.
The mortality tables used for the scheme in the UK are: Birth year table S2P[M F]A Base with future improvements in line with CMI 2017 Core projections, based on a longterm improvement rate of 1.25% p. a. and allowing for individual scaling factors based on the mortality analysis carried out as part of the last funding valuation.
The resulting assumed life expectancy of a male member of the UK schemes currently aged 65 is 21 years.
The assumed life expectancy at 65 of a male currently aged 52 is 22 years.
At those ages, the assumed life expectancy for a female member is between two and three years longer than for a male member.
The effect of a one-year change in this UK life expectancy assumption is to alter reported liabilities before associated deferred tax adjustments by approximately 122m 2017: 123m.
The selection of these movements to illustrate the sensitivity of the DBO to key assumptions should not be interpreted as the Group expressing any specific view of the probability of such movements happening.
192 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 192 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Analysis of amounts recognised in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position The amounts recognised in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position in respect of the material funded defined benefit schemes, and in the various components of income, other comprehensive income and cash flow are as follows: DBO Assets Provision 2018 m m m Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the beginning of the year 2,691 2,408 283 Amounts recognised in income: Current service cost 4 4 Past service costs equalisation of benefits 35 35 Interest on obligations and assets 67 60 7 Administration costs paid from plan assets 1 1 Total amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement 107 60 47 Re-measurements: Actuarial gain change in financial assumptions 126 126 Actuarial gain change in demographic assumptions 58 58 Actuarial loss experience 22 22 Return on assets 124 124 Re-measurement effects recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 162 124 38 Cash: Employer contributions 44 44 Benefits paid from plan assets 108 108 Net cash 108 64 44 Other: Impact of exchange rates 1 1 Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the end of the year 2,529 2,281 248 Total re-measurements recognised in OCI of 38m are shown net of re-measurement losses relating to other unfunded schemes of nil.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 193 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 193 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
Retirement benefit obligations continued DBO Assets Provision 2017 m m m Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the beginning of the year 2,740 2,399 341 Amounts recognised in income: Current service cost 4 4 Interest on obligations and assets 67 59 8 Administration costs paid from plan assets 2 2 Total amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement 73 59 14 Re-measurements: Actuarial gain change in financial assumptions 22 22 Actuarial loss change in demographic assumptions 3 3 Actuarial gain experience 16 16 Return on assets 6 6 Re-measurement effects recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 35 6 29 Cash: Employer contributions 43 43 Benefits paid from plan assets 91 91 Net cash 91 48 43 Other: Impact of exchange rates 4 4 Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the end of the year 2,691 2,408 283 Total re-measurements recognised in OCI of 26m are shown net of re-measurement losses relating to other unfunded schemes of 3m.
Employer contributions in 2018 included 41m 2017: 40m of additional contributions in respect of the deficit in the UK schemes.
Analysis of scheme assets The composition of the scheme assets at the reporting date is as follows: UK Netherlands Total 2018 m m m Equity 525 9 534 Government bonds 72 38 110 Other 1,622 15 1,637 Total 2,219 62 2,281 UK Netherlands Total 2017 m m m Equity 552 10 562 Government bonds 72 39 111 Other 1,721 14 1,735 Total 2,345 63 2,408 194 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 194 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 A more granular, approximate split of assets of the UK scheme at 31 December 2018 is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Equity 336 409 Private equity 189 143 Government bonds 72 72 Credit 87 83 Property 98 83 Macro-orientated 249 243 Multi-strategy 181 202 Derivatives 329 382 Cash and cash equivalents 678 728 Total UK assets 2,219 2,345 Multi-strategy assets are held in a pooled fund structure, which is a multi-asset fund investing across all asset classes.
Within the UK pension fund, the Equity, Credit, Macro-orientated and Multi-strategy sub-categories consist of pooled vehicles investing predominantly in assets with quoted prices in active markets.
All government bonds are issued by the UK government and have quoted prices in active markets.
Other UK investments are predominantly unquoted.
Derivatives include a range of interest-rate and inflation-linked swaps, forward-currency contracts, equity-index total return swaps, equity options, and futures.
Investing in interest-rate and inflation-linked swaps is designed to mitigate the impact of future changes in interest rates and inflation.
None of the pension scheme assets are held in the Groups own financial instruments or in any assets held or used by the Group.
The fair value of directly-held securities equities and bonds is taken as the closing price on an actively-traded market.
Fair value of holdings in pooled funds is provided by the investment manager, who calculates the price based on the aggregate value of the underlying assets held by the fund based on closing prices of the securities on an actively-traded market and the number of units issued.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Onerous Employee customer Property benefits Restructuring Claims contracts and other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 20 4 104 62 52 242 Additional provision in the year 6 31 150 11 12 210 Utilisation of provision 3 29 38 17 18 105 Transfers and reclassifications 2 2 3 1 Unused amounts reversed 5 5 3 13 Exchange differences 1 5 1 5 At 31 December 2018 20 4 216 51 47 338 Included in current liabilities 202 Included in non-current liabilities 136 338 Judgment is required in quantifying the Groups provisions, particularly in connection with claims and onerous customer contracts, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates where the ultimate outcome may be different from the amount provided.
Each of these provisions reflects the Groups best estimate of the probable exposure at 31 December 2018 and this assessment has been made having considered the sensitivity of each provision to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
Subject to the approval of the California class action settlement by the Superior Court of the State of California, the Group is satisfied that it is unlikely that changes in these key assumptions will have a material impact on the Groups overall provisioning position in the next 12 months.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 195 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 195 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Provisions and contingent liabilities continued Employee benefits The provision for employee benefits is in respect of any employee benefits which accrue over the working lives of the employees, typically including items such as long service awards and termination indemnity schemes.
The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits other than retirement benefits represents the present value of the future benefit that employees have earned at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of scheme assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Restructuring Restructuring provisions include amounts for redundancy payments, and the costs of closure of activities in acquired businesses and discontinued operations.
The timing of settlement of restructuring provisions is uncertain but is generally likely to be short-term.
During the year the Group incurred restructuring costs of 31m 2017: 20m within specific items relating to the multi-year strategic productivity programme across the Group.
In addition, the Group incurred non-strategic reorganisation costs of 9m 2017: 10m which are included within Adjusted PBITA.
Claims Claims provisions represent any outstanding litigation claims against the Group that are considered likely to lead to the outflow of funds in the future, including provisions within the captive insurance companies to cover where appropriate anticipated claims incurred as at the balance sheet date, based on actuarial assessments to calculate the liabilities.
During the year the Group recognised additional provisions of 150m including 100m relating to the settlement of a class action in respect of claims for meal and rest breaks for the period 2001 to 2010 in California, presented within specific items in the consolidated income statement.
The settlement of the class action in California is subject to approval by the Superior Court which is expected to be received during 2019.
Assuming that approval is obtained during 2019, the payment will be made in late 2019 or early 2020.
The Group will continue to review the level of provision in respect of this claim as the court process progresses during 2019.
The Groups wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries in Guernsey and the US underwrite part of the Groups Cash Solutions, general liability, workers compensation and auto liability policies.
In the year the Group provided 34m 2017: 36m in relation to claims made under these policies which comprise a significant number of unrelated claims, most of which are individually immaterial.
Claims provisions cover a wide range of claims or possible claims and are subject to regular actuarial review and adjustment as appropriate.
Settlement of these provisions is highly probable but both the value of the final settlements and their timing are dependent upon the outcome of on-going processes to determine both liability and quantum in respect of each claim.
Onerous customer contracts The Group recognised as specific items additional onerous contract provisions of 11m 2017: 19m relating primarily to anticipated losses in respect of two UK Care & Justice Services contracts.
The provision at the end of December 2018 represents the anticipated total losses in respect of these two contracts and the COMPASS asylum seeker contract, together with two smaller PFI contracts that are expected to run for the next 15 to 20 years.
It is expected that around 60% of the Groups total provision for onerous contracts will be utilised by the end of 2019, mainly as the COMPASS contract comes to an end in August 2019.
Given the short period remaining to the finalisation of this contract, any potential future changes to key assumptions made when estimating its future losses are not expected to have a significant impact.
Unused amounts reversed in the year of 5m are mainly related to two other PFI contracts where profit improvement plans implemented in prior periods have led to reductions in expected future losses, although these are reflected only to the extent that they have been implemented and are delivering the expected savings.
Profit improvement plans that have been designed but which have not yet been embedded successfully in the contract delivery have not been considered when estimating future expected losses.
This is consistent with the Groups policy which requires evidence that profit improvement plans will be successfully implemented before they are reflected in anticipated future cash flow projections for onerous contract provisioning purposes.
There is no single change in key variables that could materially affect future expected losses on these contracts.
The onerous contract provision includes items that are subject to commercial and or contractual disputes and may be subject to early termination, penalty clauses, or other contractual penalties.
Whilst the outcome of such contracts is inherently uncertain, the Group is satisfied that it is unlikely that changes in these contracts will have a material impact on the Groups overall provision in the next 12 months.
Management believes that the current level of provision is balanced and that any significant potential downside from possible changes to key assumptions could be offset by further progress made in those profit improvement plans that have not been considered following the Groups policy described above.
The discount rates applied when calculating onerous contract provisions for these contracts were between 1.4% and 1.7%.
196 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 196 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Property and other Included within property and other provisions are future liabilities for long-term idle leased properties, for properties sub-let at a shortfall, for the cost of replacing or reinstalling assets where there is a present contractual requirement, and for customer claims on contracts that are related to the performance on a contract but do not form part of onerous customer contract provisions.
Whilst settlement of these obligations is considered probable, there is uncertainty over their value and duration.
Included in property and other provisions are contract-related provisions of 30m 2017: 35m and property-related provisions of 17m 2017: 17m.
Contingent liabilities The Group is involved in disputes in a number of countries, mainly in respect of activities related to its operations.
Currently there are a number of disputes open in relation to the application of local labour law, commercial agreements with customers and subcontractors and claims and compliance matters, in some cases in the course of litigation.
In addition, the interpretation of labour laws and regulations in a number of countries where the Group operates is complex and there is inherent judgment made when applying those laws and regulations that are open to interpretation.
As such, there is risk that further disputes and claims from employees could arise in the future.
Where there is a dispute or where there is a risk of a dispute or claims in the future and where, based on legal counsel advice, the Group estimates that it is probable that the dispute will result in an outflow of economic resources, provision is made based on the Groups best estimate of the likely financial outcome.
Where a reliable estimate cannot be made, or where the Group, based on legal counsel advice, considers that it is not probable that there will be an outflow of economic resources, no provision is recognised.
The Group is party to a number of on-going litigation processes, in relation to interpretation of local labour law and regulations in a number of countries, where it is expected that these matters will not be resolved in the near future.
At this stage, the Groups view is that these cases will either be resolved in a manner favourable to the interests of the Group or, due to the nature and complexity of the cases, it is not possible to estimate the potential economic exposure.
In addition, in the ordinary course of business, other contingent liabilities exist where the Group is subject to commercial claims and litigation from a range of parties in respect of contracts, agreements, regulatory and compliance matters, none of which are expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The investigation opened by the Serious Fraud Office SFO in 2013 in respect of the Group's Electronic Monitoring contract remains on-going and the Group continues to engage and co-operate fully with the investigation.
Based on currently available information, the Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the financial effect of the SFO's investigation, and no provision has been made in respect of it.
The Group is currently involved in a number of claims in India, mainly related to periods prior to 2011, in relation to the interpretation of the basis for payments to the India Provident Fund.
These disputes are currently awaiting court resolution.
Based on the Groups internal and external legal advice, and taking into account the judgment passed by the Supreme Court of India in respect of a different Provident Fund related question on 28 February 2019, the Group believes it has a strong legal position that will prevail in the courts such that no economic outflow is expected to occur and hence no provision has been booked at the year end.
The aggregate of the Provident Fund related claims amount to approximately 50m.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 197 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 197 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year: Retirement Other Property, plant benefit temporary and equipment obligations Tax losses differences Total m m m m m 1 At 1 January 2018 restated 32 63 92 46 233 Charge credit to the consolidated income statement 1 7 8 22 20 Charge to equity 6 2 8 Exchange differences and other adjustments 3 3 At 31 December 2018 31 64 84 63 242 At 1 January 2017 as reported 18 69 110 75 272 1 Impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 - 2 2 1 At 1 January 2017 - restated 18 69 110 77 274 Credit charge to the consolidated income statement 14 2 18 25 31 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 Charge to equity 4 4 Exchange differences 5 5 1 At 31 December 2017 - restated 32 63 92 46 233 1.
Restated for the impact of adoption of IFRS 15, see note 3.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where permitted.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset : 2017 1 Restated 2018 m m Deferred tax liabilities 6 8 Deferred tax assets 248 242 Net deferred tax liability included in assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 1 Net deferred tax assets 242 233 1.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had unutilised tax losses of approximately 781m 2017: 780m potentially available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 84m 2017: 92m has been recognised in respect of approximately 469m 2017: 508m of gross losses based on profitability from approved budgets and business plans.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 312m 2017: 272m of gross losses due to the uncertainty of available of future profit streams in the relevant jurisdictions, and the fact that a significant proportion of such losses remains unagreed by the relevant tax authorities.
In certain cases, there are continuing structural issues which prevent the utilisation of losses within the foreseeable future.
Losses which will never be utilised, for example due to the operation of statute, are not included in the above figures.
Approximately 72m 2017: 54m of the gross unrecognised losses relate to the UK tax group.
Utilisation of such losses is dependent upon the profitability of particular trading and corporate entities.
The financial projections used in assessing the future profitability are consistent with those used in assessing the carrying value of goodwill as set out in note 18.
The utilisation of these losses will occur at different rates due to the incidence and timing of profits within these entities, which consequently impacts their recognition as deferred tax assets.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are gross losses of 25m 2017: 20m which will expire between 2019 and 2028.
Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At 31 December 2018, the Group has capital losses available to carry forward of approximately 2.7bn 2017: 2.6bn.
These losses have no expiry date and currently only 144m 2017: 20m has been agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
A deferred tax asset of 2m 2017: nil has been recognised on 13m of capital losses.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect the remainder of these losses as the likelihood of their future utilisation is considered to be remote.
At 31 December 2018, the aggregate amount of undistributed earnings of non-UK subsidiaries and joint ventures on which temporary differences may exist was 1,424m 2017: 1,416m.
A deferred tax liability of 2m 2017: 2m has been recognised on undistributed earnings, based on expected distributions from such subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Other temporary differences vary by country and include items relating to the local tax treatment of fixed assets, employee benefits, and provisions.
198 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 198 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 34.
Other reserves Hedging Translation Merger Reserve for Total other reserves reserve reserve own shares reserves m m m m m At 1 January 2018 44 426 12 370 Total comprehensive income attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 9 3 12 Recycling of cumulative translation adjustments 1 1 Own shares awarded 9 9 Own shares purchased 11 11 At 31 December 2018 9 42 426 14 379 At 1 January 2017 43 426 13 456 Total comprehensive loss attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 69 69 Recycling of net investment hedge 24 24 Recycling of cumulative translation adjustments 42 42 Own shares awarded 11 11 Own shares purchased 10 10 At 31 December 2017 44 426 12 370 Other reserves include: Hedging reserves The hedging reserves comprise the cash flow hedge reserve and the costs of hedging reserve, see note 29 for details.
The cash flow hedge reserve contains the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred net of tax.
The Group defers the currency basis spread in cross currency swaps and the forward points in net investment hedges in the cost of hedging reserve.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations net of tax.
During the year 1m 2017: 42m of cumulative translation adjustments and nil 2017: 24m of cumulative net investment hedging amounts relating to business disposals were recycled to the consolidated income statement see note 17.
Merger reserve The merger reserve comprises reserves arising upon the merger between the former Group 4 Falck A S and the former Group 4 Securitas BV in 2000 and the acquisition of Securicor plc by the Group in 2004.
Reserve for own shares An Employee Benefit Trust established by the Group held 5,342,225 shares at 31 December 2018 2017: 4,362,068 shares to satisfy the vesting of awards under the performance share plan and performance-related schemes see note 38.
During the year 4,119,842 shares 2017: 3,489,049 shares were purchased by the trust, and 3,139,685 shares 2017: 3,971,224 shares were used to satisfy the vesting of awards under the schemes.
Shares held by the trust are treated as treasury shares, are deducted from equity, do not receive dividends and are excluded from the calculations of earnings per share.
Distributable reserves As at 31 December 2018 the parent company of the Group had distributable reserves of 684m 2017: 885m.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 199 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 199 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36.
Analysis of net debt A reconciliation of net debt to amounts in the consolidated statement of financial position is presented below: 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,015 902 1 Receivables from customers in respect of cash-processing operations 6 7 Net cash and overdrafts included within net assets of disposal groups held for sale 8 Bank overdrafts 305 284 2 Liabilities to customers in respect of cash-processing operations 43 62 Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 673 571 Investments 65 62 Net debt excluding cash and overdrafts included within net assets of disposal groups held for sale 3 Bank loans 305 13 Loan notes 1,997 2,141 Obligations under finance leases 27 35 Fair value of loan note derivative financial instruments 33 72 Net debt 1,558 1,487 1.
Included within trade and other receivables.
Included within trade and other payables.
An analysis of movements in net debt in the year is presented below: 2018 2017 m m Increase decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts per consolidated statement of cash flow 58 87 Sale of investments 3 Net increase decrease in borrowings 103 235 Repayment of finance leases 14 23 Increase decrease in net debt resulting from cash flows 31 168 New finance leases 10 3 Net debt excluding cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts in disposed entities 2 3 Net increase decrease in net debt before foreign exchange movements 39 162 Exchange differences 32 21 Net debt at the beginning of the year 1,487 1,670 Net debt at the end of the year 1,558 1,487 200 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 200 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 37.
Operating lease arrangements The Group as lessee As at 31 December 2018, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2017 1 Restated 2018 m m Within one year 135 108 In the second to fifth years inclusive 243 246 After five years 103 125 Total operating lease commitments 481 479 1.
As a result of the detailed work carried out to assess the impact of IFRS16 Leases, effective 1 January 2019, the Group identified that the non-cancellable operating lease rentals falling due within one year that were previously disclosed as 99m at 31 December 2017 and the total operating lease commitments previously disclosed of 470m were understated.
As a result, it has re-presented the commitments above.
The adjustment has no effect on the statement of the financial position at 31 December 2017 or the results for the year then ended.
The Group leases a number of its office properties, vehicles and other operating equipment under operating leases.
Property leases are negotiated over an average term of around ten years, at rates reflective of market rentals.
Periodic rent reviews take place to bring lease rentals into line with prevailing market conditions.
Some, but not all, lease agreements have an option to renew the lease at the end of the lease term.
The above disclosure excludes rentals for optional extension periods and which the Group can avoid by exercising lease break clauses.
Leased vehicles and other operating equipment are negotiated over an average lease term of four years.
Share-based payments Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Shares allocated under the Groups LTIP are subject to performance conditions and forfeitures, as detailed in the Directors Remuneration report on page 109.
Under the Groups LTIP, Relative Total Shareholder Return a market performance condition constitutes 30% 2017: 30% of the performance criteria and is measured over three financial years.
The Relative Total Shareholder Return is measured against a comparator group of selected relevant companies.
25% of this element of the award vests upon the Groups Total Shareholder Return being ranked median against the comparator group.
To reflect the targeted achievement of median ranking, the fair value of the shares awarded which is subject to this market performance condition has therefore been reduced by 75%.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP and Restricted Share Plan RSP Shares allocated under the Groups DBSP and RSP are not subject to further financial performance conditions, but in both cases, are subject to forfeitures, either in part or in full, subject to continued employment, unless a participant is deemed a good leaver by the Remuneration Committee.
Share-based payment plans information All three share plans have a three-year vesting period from their dates of grant.
The weighted-average share price at the date of allocation of shares allocated conditionally during the year was 258.9p 2017: 283.1p and the contractual life of all conditional allocations was three years.
The weighted-average share price at the date of exercise for the shares exercised during the year was 248.5p 2017: 279.0p.
The consolidated income statement is charged with an estimate for the vesting of shares awarded conditionally and subject to non-market performance conditions.
The charge for 2018 was 8m 2017: 10m, all of which 2017: 9m arose from equity-settled share-based payments.
The total carrying amount for the liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions as at 31 December 2018 was 4m 31 December 2017: 6m.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 201 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 201 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 39.
Related party transactions Transactions and balances with joint ventures Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
All transactions with related parties are entered into in the normal course of business.
Transactions with joint ventures included revenue recorded of 60m 2017: 56m and purchases recorded of nil 2017: 6m.
Amounts due from related parties include 2m 2017: 5m from joint ventures.
Amounts due to related parties include nil 2017: 2m to joint ventures.
No expense 2017: nil has been recognised in the year for impairment in respect of amounts owed by related parties.
The Group has a legal interest in a number of joint ventures and joint arrangements, where the economic interest was divested by the Global Solutions Group prior to its acquisition by G4S plc in 2008.
Transactions with these entities during the year comprised: 2018 2017 Services sales to Services sales to m m White Horse Education Partnership Limited 3 3 Integrated Accommodation Services plc 50 46 Fazakerley Prison Services Limited 41 39 Onley Prison Services Limited 17 17 UK Court Services Manchester Limited 2 2 East London Lift Company Limited 2 1 Total 115 108 The Group had outstanding balances of 12m due from these entities at 31 December 2018 2017: 11m.
Transactions with post-employment benefit schemes Details of transactions with the Groups post-employment benefit schemes are provided in note 31.
Unpaid contributions owed to schemes amounted to 0.2m at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 0.3m.
Transactions with other related parties In the normal course of the Groups business the Group provides services to and receives services from certain non-controlling interests on an arms-length basis.
Remuneration of key management personnel The Groups key management personnel are deemed to be the non-executive directors and those individuals, including the executive directors, whose remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Their remuneration is set out below.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors included within key management personnel is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration report on pages 105 to 127.
Events after the balance sheet date In January 2019 the Group arranged a bridging facility of 300m for one year, to finance upcoming debt maturities as described in note 30.
In January 2019 the Group agreed the settlement of a class action relating to claims for employee meal and rest breaks for the period 2001 to 2010 in California - see note 32 for details.
202 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 202 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 41.
Significant investments The companies listed below are those which were part of the Group at 31 December 2018 and which, in the opinion of the directors, significantly affected the Groups results and net assets during the year.
A comprehensive list of all Group undertakings is disclosed on pages 204 to 216.
The principal activities of the companies listed below are indicated according to the following key: Secure Solutions S Cash Solutions C Product Ultimate segment Country of incorporation ownership Subsidiary undertakings G4S Soluciones fide Seguridad S. A.
S Argentina100% G4S Custodial Services Pty Limited S Australia100% G4S Secure Solutions AG Austria S Austria100% G4S Secure Solutions SA NV S Belgium100% G4S Cash Solutions Belgium NV C Belgium100% G4S Interativa Service Ltda S Brazil100% Vanguarda Segurana e Vigilncia Ltda S Brazil100% G4S Secure Solutions Canada Limited S Canada100% G4S Secure Solutions Colombia S. A.
S Colombia100% G4S Security Services A S S Denmark100% G4S Care and Justice Services UK Limited S England100% G4S Cash Centres UK Limited C England100% G4S Cash Solutions UK Limited C England100% G4S Facilities Management UK Limited S England100% G4S Risk Management Limited S England100% G4S Secure Solutions UK Limited S England100% AS G4S Baltics S C Estonia100% 1,3 G4S Secure Solutions India Pvt.
Limited S India49% G4S Kenya Limited S C Kenya100% G4S Security Solutions S. A. R. L. S C Luxembourg 100% 2,3 Safeguards G4S Sdn Bhd S C Malaysia49% G4S Cash Solutions BV C Netherlands 100% G4S Security Services BV S Netherlands 100% G4S Peru S. A. C. S Peru100% 3 Al Majal Service Master LLC S Saudi Arabia 49% G4S Cash Solutions SA Pty Limited C South Africa 75% 3 G4S Secure Solutions SA Pty Limited S South Africa 72% G4S Security Services Thailand Limited S Thailand98% 3 G4S Secure Solutions LLC S United Arab Emirates 49% G4S Retail Solutions USA Inc. C USA100% G4S Secure Solutions USA Inc. S USA100% G4S Technology LLC S USA100% These businesses operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated.
Limited has a year end of 31 March.
Safeguards G4S Sdn Bhd has a year end of 30 June.
By virtue of shareholder agreements, options, pre-emption rights and other contractual arrangements, the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, so as to obtain the benefits from the activities of these companies.
These are therefore consolidated as full subsidiaries.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 203 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 203 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 42.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc Subsidiaries Entities listed below are subsidiaries at 31 December 2018, by reason of the holding of a majority of the voting rights or, if a majority is not held, by virtue of section 1162 2 c of the Companies Act 2006.
"Not all of the companies listed below are trading entities Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 House # KA 79, Joar Sahara, Dhaka, 1212 Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, Dhaka, Bangladesh 0157 Centurion, South Africa G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS BANGLADESH P LTD Bangladesh 100 SECURICOR GRAY SECURITY SERVICES ANGOLA PTY LTD Angola 100 Apartment 10 A, Rupsha Tower, 7 Kamal Rua di reita da Samba, No 58, Corimba, Ataturk Avenue, Banani, Dhaka, Bangladesh iii Samba Luanda, Angola FIRST SELECT BANGLADESH LIMITED Bangladesh 40 G4S SERVICOS fide SEGURANCA ANGOLA LIMITADA Angola 63 Brighton, Spring Garden, St. Michael, Barbados Timoteo Gordillo 5697 5611, C1439 GKA G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Buenos Aires, Argentina BARBADOS LTD Barbados 51 G4S SOLUCIONES fide SEGURIDAD S. A. Argentina 100 G4S SERVICIOS fide SEGURIDAD S. A. Argentina 92 Buro & Design Center PB 77 Heizel PROTECCION E INVERSIONES, S. A. Argentina 93.3 Esplanade 1020 Brussels, Belgium G4S APPLIED SECURITY S. A. Argentina 100 G4S CASH SOLUTIONS BELGIUM SA NV Belgium 100 G4S CONTROL SYSTEMS S. A. Argentina 100 G4S SUPPORT SERVICES SA NV Belgium 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA NV Belgium 100 Peru 338 San Fernando del Valle fide G4S CARGO SOLUTIONS SA NV Belgium 100 Catamarca, K4700AKJ Catamarca, Argentina G4S TRAINING & CONSULTANCY SERVICES SA NV Belgium 100 INDOMEGA S. A. Argentina 99.9 G4S AVIATION SECURITY SA NV Belgium 100 MANAR S. A. Argentina 100 G4S SECURE MONITORING SA NV Belgium 100 G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS SA NV Belgium 100 Jose Demaria 4470 C1425AEB, Buenos G4S CARE SA NV Belgium 50.4 Aires, Argentina G4S SOLUCIONES GLOBALES S. A. Argentina 100 G4S EVENT SERVICES SA NV Belgium 100 G4S EVENT SECURITY SA NV Belgium 100 G4S FIRE AND SAFETY BV BA Belgium 100 Lavalle 1528, 3 ""E"" C1048AAL, Ciudad Autnoma fide Buenos Aires, Argentina G4S BELGIUM NOMINEE NV Belgium 100 100 G4S DETCON S. A. Argentina 99.4 Abtsdreef 10, 2940 Stabroek, Belgium c o HLB Mann Judd, Level 19, 207b Kent G4S SAFETY SYSTEMS N. V. Belgium 100 Street, 2000 Sydney, Australia ASC SAFETY SERVICES B. V. B."
A. Belgium 100 G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS AUSTRALIA PTYLTD Australia 100 Marcelo terceros Banzer S N, 3er Anillo Ext.
Equipetrol, Frente Hotel Casa Blanca, P. O.
Box 7332 Level 3, 182-184 Bourke Santa Cruz, Bolivia Road, NSW 2015.
Alexandria, Australia G4S BOLIVA S. A. Bolivia 99.9 G4S COMPLIANCE & INVESTIGATIONS PTYLTD Australia 100 C o Grant Thornton Business Services Pty Ltd, Acumen Park, Plot 50370, Level 4 616 St Kilda Road, Melbourne, 3004 Fairgrounds Gaborone Botswana Victoria, Australia G4S BOTSWANA LTD Botswana 70 G4S AUSTRALIA PTYLTD Australia 100 FIDELITY CASH MANAGEMENT SERVICES G4S HEALTH SERVICES BOTSWANA PTYLTD Botswana 100 AUSTRALIA PTYLTD Australia 100 G4S CUSTODIAL SERVICES PTYLTD Australia 100 Plot 50370, Fairgrounds Office Park, G4S AUSTRALIA HOLDINGS PTYLTD Australia 100 Gaborone, Botswana G4S INTEGRATED SERVICES PTYLTD Australia 100 G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT G4S CORRECTIONAL SERVICES BOTSWANA PTY LTD Botswana 34.2 AUSTRALIA PTYLTD Australia 100 Rua Rui Barbosa 70, 2 andar, 01326-010 Peilsteinerstr.
5-7, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria So Paulo, Brazil G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS GMBH Austria 100 G4S BRAZIL HOLDINGLTDA Brazil 100 Dresdner Strasse 91 1, A-1200 Vienna, Rua Rui Barbosa 70, 3 andar, Bela Vista, Austria So Paulo, Brazil G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS AG AUSTRIA Austria 100 G4S MONITORAMENTO E G4S DIENSTLEISTUNGS GMBH Austria 100 SISTEMASLTDA.
Brazil 100 Villa 925, Road 3830, Manama, Qudaybiyah Rua Maria Jos 69, Bela Vista, 01324-010 338, P. O.
Box 15193 Adliya, Bahrain So Paulo, Brazil G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS BAHRAIN W. L. L Bahrain 34.3 G4S SERVIOSLTDA.
Brazil 100 2235 West Tower BFH Manama, Bahrain Rua Rui Barbosa 191,1 andar, 01326-010 G4S REGIONAL CONSULTANCY So Paulo, Brazil SERVICES NAMESA WLL Bahrain 100 G4S ENGENHARIA E SISTEMASLTDA Brazil 100 204 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Sterling Trust Cayman Limited, Whitehall Rua Santa Rosa, 911, Bairro Santa Paula, House, 238 North Church Street, k1-1102 Sao Caetano do Sul, Sao Paulo, Brazil Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands G4S INTERATIVA SERVICELTDA.
Brazil 100 SERVICE MASTERSLTD Cayman Islands 100 Rua Rui Barbosa 70-A, 01326-010 No 48 85, Avenue Kolwezi, Gombe, So Paulo, Brazil Kinshasa, DRC G4S VANGUARDA SEGURANA E VIGILNCIALTDA Brazil 100 Central African G4S CENTRAFRIQUE SECURITE SOLUTION SURL Republic 100 Rua Maria Jos 133, Bela Vista, 01324-010 So Paulo, Brazil Avda.
Zaartu 1680, uoa Santiago, EMPRESA NACIONAL fide Chile SEGURANCALTDA Brazil 100 G4S HOLDINGS CHILE S. A. Chile 100 G4S SECURITY SERVICES REGIONES, S. A. Chile 100 Rua Rui Barbosa 70, 1 andar, Bela Vista G4S SECURITY SERVICES LIMITADA Chile 100 01326-010 So Paulo, Brazil ARRIENDOS FAST CAR, LTDA.
Chile 100 G4S PARTICIPAESLTDA Brazil 100 CAPACITACIN Y DESARROLLO, LTDA.
Chile 100 CITCO Building, Wickhams City, P. O.
13F, Hui Shang Building, 1286 Min Sheng Box 662, Road Town, Tortola, Road, Pudong New District, 200122, British Virgin Islands Shanghai, China British Virgin G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENTLTD.
China 100 G4S GROUP HOLDING ASIA LTD Islands 100 G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES SHANGHAI CO. LTD China 100 Flat RM 101B & 104 F, Tower 2, The Harbourfront, 22 Tak Fung Street, West Floor 9, Bus Tower 1001, Lianhau Kowloon, Hong Kong branch, Futian District, 518036 Shenzhen, British Virgin China G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ASIA LTD Islands 100 SHENZHEN G4S DONAR TECHNOLOGY CO. LTD China 100 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States Room 01-4 Tower A 8F, Yi Cheng British Virgin International Centre No.
10 Rong Hua G4S HOLDINGSLTD Islands 100 Middle Road Beijing Development Area, British Virgin 100176 Beijing, China G4S BVI HOLDCO COLOMBIA II LTD Islands 100 G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS BEIJING CO. LTD China 75 British Virgin ASHINO HOLDINGSLTD Islands 100 Room 710A, 7 F, Nan Fang Securities Building, 140 -148 Ti Yu Dong Lu, Craigmuir Chambers, P. O.
Box 71, Road Tian He District, Guangzhou, China Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands G4S TECHNOLOGY CHINA LTD China 100 British Virgin ARMORGROUP SPECIAL CLEARANCE SERVICES LTD Islands 100 6A, Huamin Empire Plaza, No.
728 Yan An Road W, 200050 Shanghai, China Kingston Chambers, P. O.
Box 173, Road HILL & ASSOCIATES PRC LTD China 100 Town Tortola, British Virgin Islands British Virgin 17-1 Bai Ma Miao Xiang, Shangcheng HILL & ASSOCIATES CONSULTANTSLTD Islands 100 District, Hangzhou, China G4S ZHEJIANG SECURE SOLUTIONS P. O.
Box 957, Offshore Incorporations CO. LTD China 90 Centre, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands Room 204-7, 2 Floor, China Diamond British Virgin HILL & ASSOCIATES CONSULTANTS Exchange Center Building, Tower B, No.
MIDDLE EAST LTD Islands 100 1701 Century Boulevard, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China Old Airport Road, Bonapriso Doula, G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Cameroon SHANGHAI CO. LTD China 100 G4S SECURITY SERVICES CAMEROON PLC Cameroon 48.54 Avenida 26 No 69A-51 Torre A, Int 1 Piso3, Bogota, Colombia 150 Ferrand Drive, Suite 600, M3C 3E5 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS COLOMBIA S. A. Colombia 100 Toronto, Ontario, Canada G4S HOLDING COLOMBIA SA Colombia 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS G4S TECHNOLOGY COLOMBIA S. A. Colombia 100 CANADA LTD. G4S SOLUTIONS fide SECURITE EBC INGENIERIA S. A.
S Colombia 100 CANADA LTEE Canada 100 5255 Orbitor Drive, L4W 5M6 Mississauga Ontario, Canada INDO BRITISH GARMENTS CANADA LTD Canada 100 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 205 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 42.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Avenida 26 No.
Repblica del Piso 2, Bogota, Colombia Salvador, Quito, Ecuador G4S RISK MANAGEMENT COLOMBIA S. A. Colombia 94 DEFENCE SYSTEMS ECUADOR DSE CIALTDA Ecuador 99 G4S FACILITY MANAGEMENT CIALTDA Ecuador 99.9 Sabana Sur Yamuni 200 Sur fide Frente a Consejo Nacional fide Produccion, San Jose, Av.
Principal la Perla S52-136 y Quinta Costa Rica Transversal Quito Ecuador GFOURS S. A. Costa Rica 100 CEFOSEG CIA.
Ecuador 100 WACKENHUT SERVICIOS fide SEGURIDAD, S. A. Costa Rica 100 WACKENHUT SERVICIO fide 2nd District, 90th Street, Area 6, 5th ESCOLTAS, S. A. Costa Rica 100 Settlement, New Cairo, Cairo, Egypt G FOUR S GRUPO fide SERVICIOS G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS EGYPT LLC Egypt 85 ESPECIALES fide SEGURIDAD, S. A. Costa Rica 100 G FOUR S CONSULTOR EN Head Office: Ismalia Public Free Zone Area, SEGURIDAD, S. A. Costa Rica 100 Egypt INDO BRITISH GARMENTS EGYPT S. A. E. Egypt 99 Cinco Esquinas fide Tibas fide la Clinica, Clorito Picado 150 mts.
Oeste, San Jose, 7 El Sherka El Porsaidia St. Auba Boula Sq.
Costa Rica Ard El Golf, Heliopolis, Cairo, Egypt G CUATRO S VALOURS S. A. Costa Rica 100 FS INVESTMENTS LLC Egypt 99 G CUATRO S CASH SOLUTIONS S. A. Costa Rica 100 3A Nabatat Street, Garden City, Cairo, Kaya Flamboyan 6, Curaao, Dutch West Egypt Indies, Curacao G4S LOTUS FACILITIES MANAGEMENT G4S GULF HOLDINGS NV Curacao 100 COMPANY Egypt 51 Diianiras 17, 2045 Strovolos Nicosia, P. O.
12 Suhag St. Extension of Harun El-Rasheed Box 23989 1687, Nicosia, Cyprus St. Heliopolis, Cairo, Egypt G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CYPRUS LTD Cyprus 74 G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT EGYPT G4S AVIATION CYPRUS LTD Cyprus 80 LLC Egypt 100 P. O.
Olimpica 3765, San Salvador, El Salvador G4S HOLDING CYPRUSLTD Cyprus 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS EL SALVADOR S. A. fide C. V. El Salvador 100 Na Kosince 2257 9, 180 00 Prague 8, Czech Republic Paldiski mnt 80, 10617 Tallinn, Estonia G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CZ, A. S. Czech Republic 100 AS G4S BALTICS Estonia 100 G4S CASH SOLUTIONS CZ A. S. Czech Republic 100 AS G4S GRUPP Estonia 100 G4S SERVICES S. R. O. Czech Republic 100 AS G4S EESTI Estonia 100 108, Boulevard du 30 Juin, Gombe, Kinshasa, Tkoja 1, 11313 Tallinn, Estonia Democratic Republic of Congo ALARMTEC AS Estonia 100 Democratic Republic of Tarta mnt 80j, 10112 Tallinn, Estonia G4S DRC S. A. R. L. Congo 95 AS HISTEENUSED Estonia 100 Roskildevej 157, DK-2620 Albertslund, Fabianinkatu, 29B, Helsinki, 00100, Finland Denmark G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS FINLAND OY Finland 100 G4S HOLDINGS DK A S Denmark 100 100 G4S INTERNATIONAL DK A S Denmark 100 18 R Pasquier, 75008 Paris, France G4S SECURITY SERVICES A S Denmark 100 G4S INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS G4S KYHLENSO A S Denmark 100 FRANCE SAS France 100 G4S VIKINGA SURAMERICANA APS Denmark 100 G4S SURAMERICANA HOLDING APS Denmark 100 9 Place fide la Madeleine 75008 Paris, France G4S AVIATION SECURITY FRANCE SAS France 100 Paseo fide los Locutores #36, G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS FRANCE SAS France 100 Ensanche Piantini, Santo Domingo, DominicanRepublic Quartier Ambowe, BP 4000 Libreville, Dominican Gabon G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Republic 95 28.5 G4S GABON SECURE SOLUTIONS S. A. Gabon 99.9 Dominican G4S CASH SOLUTIONS Republic 95 9 Booster Street, Fajara, SK Serrekunda, Gambia Gral.
Giacomo Roca N33-92 y Bosmediano, G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS GAMBIA LTD Gambia 100 Quito, Ecuador G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ECUADOR Rathenaustrasse 53, D-63263 CIALTDA.
Ecuador 99.9 Neu-Isenburg, Germany G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Luis Cordero E12-114 y Toledo, Quito, GERMANY GMBH Germany 100 Ecuador G4S HOLDING ECUADOR S. A. Ecuador 99.9 206 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc 1 F, Securicor Ctre, 481 Castle Peak Rd, C o Baker Tilly GmbH & Co KG AG Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong  Valentinskamp 88 20355 Hamburg, Germany G4S HONG KONG HOLDING LTD Hong Kong 100 G4S SECURITY HOLDINGS fide GMBH Germany 100 VERDILTD Hong Kong 100 G4S  GMBH Germany 100 5.2 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS HONG KONG LTD Hong Kong 100 G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS GERMANY GMBH Germany 100 G4S GURKHA SERVICESLTD Hong Kong 100 HONG KONG SECURITYLTD Hong Kong 100 31 Second Labone Street, Labone, G4S DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES HONG KONG LTD Hong Kong 100 Accra, Ghana G4S FACILITY SERVICES HONG G4S SECURITY SERVICES GHANA LTD Ghana 100 KONG LTD. Hong Kong 100 G4S GHANA LTD Ghana 100 G4S CASH SOLUTIONS HONG G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS GHANA LTD Ghana 100 KONG LTD Hong Kong 100 G4S RISK MANAGEMENT AFRICA LTD Ghana 49 SECURICOR MACAU INVESTMENTLTD Hong Kong 100 G4S GROUP HOLDING CHINA LTD Hong Kong 100 7, Sorou Str.
144 52 Metamorphosis, STARPOINT INVESTMENTSLTD Hong Kong 100 Athens, Greece G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS HONG G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA Greece 100 KONG LTD Hong Kong 100 G4S HELLAS HOLDING SA Greece 100 GREAT STEP INVESTMENTLTD Hong Kong 100 G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SA Greece 100 VICTORY STEP GROUPLTD Hong Kong 75 G4S TELEMATIX SA Greece 39.4 G4S TECHNOLOGY HONG KONG LTD Hong Kong 100 G4S AVIATION AND PORTS SECURE SOLUTIONS SA Greece 100 Unit 02, 7 F, Beautiful Group Tower, 77 G4S RMSLTD Greece 100 Connaught Rd Central, Hong Kong G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS AND G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISITICS MONITORING SERVICES GREECE SA Greece 100 HONG KONG LTD Hong Kong 100 5 klm, Spaton-Loutsas aven.
190 19 Suite 1701-08, Tower 2, Times Square, 1 Spata, Greece Matheson Street, Causeway Bay, Hong Kong WSW SKYKAP SERVICES SA Greece 42.5 HILL & ASSOCIATESLTD Hong Kong 100 National Road Palaiokastritsas, 491 00 C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Kerkiras, Greece Janak Cinema, 110058 New Delhi, India HELLAS GUARD S. A.
UNDER G4S CENTRAL MONITORING SERVICES LIQUIDATION Greece 18 INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INDIA 35 Kountouriotou, 555-35 Thessaloniki, PVT.
LTD India 49 Greece INDO-BRITISH GARMENTS P LTD India 100 CSI DEFENSELTD Greece 50 G4S CASH SOLUTIONS INDIA PVTLTD India 100 18.5 G4S FLEET MANAGEMENT SERVICES Maurice Bishop Highway Grand Anse St. INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100 Georges, Grenada G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS G4S CORPORATE SERVICES INDIA GRENADA LTD. Grenada 51 PVT.
LTD. India 100 FIRST SELECT P LTD India 100 1851A Army Drive, Harmon, Guam, 96913, G4S FACILITY SERVICES INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100 Guam MONITRON SUPPORT SERVICES G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS GUAM, INC. Guam 100 PVT.
LTD India 49.5 G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS GUAM INC. Guam 100 Office Unit No.
301, Third Floor, Avenida Petapa 42-51, Zona 12 Guatemala A-Wing, Eureka Tower, Building No.
7, Mind City, Guatemala Space, Link Road, Malad west, 400064 WACKENHUT fide GUATEMALA SA Guatemala 50 Mumbai, India WACKENHUT ELECTRONICA SA Guatemala 47.5 MONITRON SECURITY P LTD India 100 G4S DOCUMENTA, S. A. Guatemala 50 FACILITY SERVICES, S. A. Guatemala 28 Block B3, 3rd Floor, DLF World Tech Park, G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS, S. A. Guatemala 50 DLF IT SEZ, Silokhera122001 Gurgaon, Haryana, India Homefield Rue fide LEpinel Forest, GY8 G4S IT SERVICES INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100 84.5 0HL, Guernsey G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS Plot No.
14, Banjara Hills, GUERNSEY LTD Guernsey 100 500034 Hyderabad, India PROTEX SECURITY SERVICES AP P. O.
Box 384, 4th Floor, The Albany, South PVT.
LTD India 48.9 Esplanade, GY1 4NF St. INVESTIGATION AND SECURITY Peter Port, Guernsey SERVICES INDIA PVT.
LTD India 46.6 G4S INSURANCE GUERNSEY LTD Guernsey 100 100 Upper Ground Floor, Tower B, Building No.
Commune fide Ratoma, Kipe Centre 10, DLF Cyber City, 122002 DLF Phase II, Emetteur, Pres fide la Seg, Conakry, Guinea Gurgaon, Haryana, India G4S SECURITY SERVICES GUINEA SARL Guinea 75 HILL & ASSOCIATES INDIA PVT.
LTD India 100 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 207 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 42.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc C-30, Chirag Enclave, 110048 New Delhi, 3 Boulevard Valerie Giscard d'Estaing, 01 BP India 110048 New Delhi, India 6065 ABJ 01 Abidjan, Ivory Coast SOPEDU SECURITY PRIVATE LIMITED India 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CI SA Ivory Coast 97.5 Rue B31, Lot 29, Cocody danga Nord Abidjan, 20 BP 845 Abidjan 20 Abidjan, The Security CenterUnit 407, Cilandak Ivory Coast Commercial Estate KKO, 12560 Jakarta, Indonesia ARMORGROUP COTE D'IVOIRE SA Ivory Coast 100 PT G4S SECURITY SERVICES Indonesia 97 PT G4S EURONET INDONESIA Indonesia 53 6-8 East Avenue, 5 Kingston W. I. Jamaica PT G4S SECURITY SOLUTION SERVICES Indonesia 51 G4S JAMAICALTD Jamaica 100 Jl.
18, Pondok Pinang, 202, Musashino Hills, 2299-4 Fussa, FussaKebayoran Lama, 12310 Jakarta, Indonesia shi, 1970011 Fussa-shi, Japan PT G4S CASH SERVICES Indonesia 83.9 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS JAPAN K. K Japan 100 Menara Jamsostek Fl.
Gatot 2-2-15, #403, Minami-Aoyama, Minato-ku, Subroto No.
38, Kuningan Barat, Jakarta 107-0062 Tokyo, Japan Selatan, Indonesia HILL & ASSOCIATES JAPAN KK Japan 100 PT CASINTRANS PERDANA Indonesia 100 Third Floor, 37 Esplanade, JE2 3QA St Gedung Setiabudi 2 Lt. 3A Suite 3A-01 Jl.
Helier, Jersey iii H. R. Rasuna, Said Kav.
62, 12920 Jakarta, G4S HOLDINGS INDIALTD Jersey 100 Indonesia PT HILL KONSULTAN INDONESIA Indonesia 99 The Security Centre Rue des Pres Trading Estate, JE2 7QP St Saviour, Jersey Jl.
30, G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS JERSEY LTD Jersey 100 Bendungan Hilir, Tanah Abang, 10210 Jakarta, Indonesia The Old Chapel, Sacre Coeur, Rouge PT ARGENTA ADHILOKA PRATAMA Indonesia 86.7 Bouillon St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3ZA G4S INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT SERVICESLTD Jersey 100 Unit 5 Calmount Buisness Park, Ballymount, Dublin 12, Ireland GROUP 4 SECURICOR GLOBAL RISKSLTD Ireland 100 # 12, Mithqual El Fayez St. Third Circle, Jebel, P. O.
Box 831358, 11183 Amman, G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS IRE LTD Ireland 100 Jordan G4S SUPPORT SERVICES IRELAND LTD Ireland 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS G4S HOLDINGS IRELAND LTD Ireland 100 INTERNATIONALINC JORDAN LTD. Jordan 50 G4S MONITORING IRE LTD Ireland 100 A1 SECURITY TECHNOLOGIESLTD Ireland 100 Roxy Al Ozaizi Street Dana Center 2, G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT IRE LTD Ireland 100 11183 Amman, Jordan ALARM MONITORING SERVICESLTD Ireland 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INT.
JORDAN G4S FINANCE IRELAND LTD Ireland 100 FOR INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS Jordan 60 GDJS SECURITYLTD Ireland 100 Witu Rd off Lusaka Rd, P O Box 30242, Bluebell Industrial Estate, Bluebell Ave, GPO 00100 Nairobi, Kenya Dublin 12, Ireland G4S KENYALTD Kenya 100 G4S CASH SOLUTIONS IRELANDLTD Ireland 100 G4S FIRE SERVICES KENYA LTD Kenya 100 Unit B Offices, City West Shopping Centre, Plot No.
LR 209 368 10, Armor House, Dublin 24, D24 P650, Ireland Lenana Road, P. O.
Box 2714 Nairobi, Kenya G4S COMPLIANCE AND ARMORGROUP KENYALTD Kenya 100 INVESTIGATIONS IRELAND LIMITED Ireland 100 P. O.
Box 22063, 13081 Safat, Kuwait IOM Buisness Park, Ballacottier, Braddon, GROUP 4 SECURITY SOLUTIONS CO. WLL Kuwait 48.51 Isle of Man, IM2 2SE G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ISLE OF P. O.
Box 117, 13002 Safat, Kuwait MAN LTD Isle of Man 100 AL MULLA SECURITY SERVICES KSCC Kuwait 49 14 Scacham St. Petch Tikva, Israel Stigu Str 10, LV-1021, Riga, Latvia G4S ISRAEL PPPLTD Israel 100 AS G4S LATVIA Latvia 100 AS G4S CASH SERVICES LATVIA Latvia 100 111, Arlozorov Street, Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel, 6209809 G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Saliba Building Awkar Dbayeh, 70-461, ISRAEL LTD Israel 100 Antelias Beirut, Lebanon GROUP 4 SECURITY SERVICES LEBANON SAL Lebanon 50 50.6 20 B. P. 845 Abidjan 20, Ivory Coast G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS LEBANON SAL Lebanon 50.5 WACKENHUT SA Ivory Coast 97.5 397 Hilton Hill Road Maseru, Lesotho G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS LESOTHO PTY LTD Lesotho 100 G4S CASH SOLUTIONS LESOTHO PTY LTD Lesotho 100 208 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc J. Jasinskio 16C, LT-01112 Vilnius, Lithuania Level 15B, Main Office Tower, Financial Park, Jalan Merdeka, 87000 Labuan, Malaysia UAB G4S LIETUVA Lithuania 100 14 Rue du Pre Raphal P. O.
Box 1513, RISK CONSULTING L LTD Malaysia 100 L-1015 Luxembourg G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS S. A. R. L. Luxembourg 100 Unit No 9-7, The Boulevard, Mid Valley G4S GENERAL SERVICES SA Luxembourg 100 City, Lingkaran Syed Putra, 59200 Kuala G4S FINANCE LUXEMBOURG SARL Luxembourg 100 100 Lumpur, Malaysia HILL RISK CONSULTING MALAYSIA SDN BHD Malaysia 100 Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 185-191, 1 Andar A, Macau G4S MACAU HOLDING LTD Macau 100 Level 21, Suite 21.10, The Gardens South Tower, Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Avenida Venceslau fide Morais, 157, BL 2,2, VIVA POWERTECH SDN.
BHD Malaysia 100 Edificio Centro Ind.
Keck Seng, Fase II, 2 Andar H, Macau HILL & ASSOCIATES MACAU LTD Macau 100 Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma HamzahKwong Hing No 1 Leboh Ampang, 50100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS MACAU LTD Macau 100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia GREAT WALL SECURITY SERVICESLTDA.
Macau 100 INDO BRITISH GARMENTS MALAYSIA GREAT WALL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SDN BHD Malaysia 100 SERVICESLTD Macau 100 GREAT WALL HOLDINGSLTD Macau 100 Hamdallaye ACI 2000, street 405 gate 558, Bamako, Mali Lot II, 161 HC Ambohijatovo Ivandry G4S MALI SARL Mali 100 Immeuble Millenium, 10101 101 Antananarivo Renivohitra C. U. Madagascar Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq G4S MADAGASCAR SOLUTIONS fide ta-Zwejt, SGN 3000 San Gwann, Malta SECURITE SARL Madagascar 100 G4S SECURITY SERVICES MALTA LTD Malta 50.1 G4S SECURITY SERVICESLTD Malta 50.1 Chirimba Industrial Area, P O Box 720, G4S HOLDINGS MALTA LTD Malta 100 Blantyre, Malawi G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS MALAWI LTD Malawi 99.72 G4S COMMUNITY SERVICES LIMITED Malta 50.1 G4S PREMIER GUARDING SERVICES MALAWI LTD Malawi 100 BP 4201, Nouakchott, Tevragh Zeina Ilot C, No.
261, Nouakchott, Mauritania 25-2, Jalan PjU 1 42A, Dataran Prima, 47301 G4S SECURITY SERVICES Petaling Jaya, Malaysia MAURITANIA SA Mauritania 70 G4S MALAYSIA SDN.
BHD Malaysia 60 ALMO SYSTEMS SDN BHD Malaysia 48.8 c o Multiconsult Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius G4S HOLDINGS CHINALTD Mauritius 100 Suite 226, 1st floor, FAS Business Avenue, HILL RISK MANAGEMENTLTD Mauritius 100 No.
1, Jalan Perbandaran, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia HILL & ASSOCIATES MAURITIUS LTD Mauritius 100 GROUP 4 FALCK CMS SDN BHD Malaysia 48.8 HILL RISK CONSULTING MAURITIUS LTD Mauritius 100 No 1 & 1A, 2nd Floor Room 2, Jalan Ipoh 210 St James Court, Rue St Denis, Port Kecil, 50350 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Louis, Mauritius SAFEGUARDS G4S SDN BHD Malaysia 48.8 CROSSKEYS MAURITIUS HOLDINGSLTD Mauritius 100 SECURICOR MALAYSIA SDN BHD Malaysia 48.8 SAFEGUARDS G4S SABAH SDN BHD Malaysia 48.8 c o Intercontinental TrustLTD, Level 3, SAFEGUARDS G4S SARAWAK SDN BHD Malaysia 48.8 Alexander House, 35 Cybercity, Ebene, SAFEGUARDS G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS Mauritius SDN BHD Malaysia 48.8 S GRAY MANAGEMENT SERVICESLTD Mauritius 100 910 Suite 1, Block B, Phileo Damansara 2, No 15, Jalan 16 11, Off Jalan Damansara, Barranca del Muerto #380, CP 01020 Petaling Jaya, 46350 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Mexico, D. F. Mexico Malaysia G4S HOLDINGS MXICO, SA fide CV Mexico 100 GWENKENS SECURITY SERVICES SDN G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS S. A. fide C. V. Mexico 100 BHD Malaysia 43.9 G4S PRIVATE SECURITY SERVICES, SA fide SAFEGUARDS G4S ACADEMY SDN BHD Malaysia 43.9 CV Mexico 100 GWENKENS CENTRAL MONITORING SDN BHD Malaysia 43.9 Cvijetna Street no.
25, Podgorica, Montenegro 1st Floor, Lot 6, Jalan 225, Sec 51A, Petaling G4S SECURITY SERVICES CRNA GORA Jaya, 46100 Selangor, Malaysia DOO PODGORICA Montenegro 85 G4S MANAGEMENT SERVICES ASIA PACIFIC SDN BHD Malaysia 100 24 Lotissement la Colline, Sidi Maarouf, 20150 Casablanca, Morocco 2nd floor, No 2-4 Jalan Manau, 50460 Kuala MAROC PROTECTION SURVEILLANCE SA Morocco 100 Lumpur, Malaysia G4S MAROC SA Morocco 100 HILL CORPORATE SERVICES SDN BHD Malaysia 100 FIRST SELECT MOROCCO SA Morocco 99.9 G4S INTERGRATED SERVICES MOROCCOSA Morocco 100 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 209 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 42.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Rua Mariano Machado nr.
99 186, Maputo, Amperestraat 25, 6716 BN Ede, Mozambique Netherlands WACKENHUT MOZAMBIQUE LIMITADA Mozambique 90 G4S PERSONNEL BV Netherlands 100 Av da Organizacao da Unidade Africana, Donk 1D, 2991 LE Barendrecht, 121, Maputo, Mozambique Netherlands G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS MOCAMBIQUE G4S FIRE & SAFETY BV Netherlands 100 LIMITADA Mozambique 87.5 Tolnasingel 1, 2411PV Bodegraven, No 2085, Avenida Ahmed Sekoe Toure, Netherlands Maputo, Mozambique INZETBAAR BV Netherlands 100 G4S ORDNANCE MANAGEMENT MOCAMBIQUE, LIMITADA Mozambique 90 Level 3, 2 Kalmia Street, Ellerslie, 1051, New Zealand 33 General Murtala Ramat Muhammed G4S NEW ZEALANDLTD New Zealand 100 Street, Eros, Windhoek, Namibia G FOUR S MANNED SECURITY NAMIBIA Reparta Belmonte, Dr. Hospital Velez Paiz, PTY LTD Namibia 100 1 Cuadra Holis Arriba, Nicaragua G FOUR S AVIATION SECURITY G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS NICARAGUA, NAMIBIA PTY LTD Namibia 100 SOCIEDAD ANNIMA Nicaragua 51 G FOUR S SECURE SOLUTIONS NAMIBIA PTY LTD Namibia 100 27, Oba Akinjobi Street, GIRA, Ikeja, Lagos, G FOUR S CASH SOLUTIONS NAMIBIA Nigeria PTY LTD Namibia 100 OUTSOURCING SERVICESLTD Nigeria 99.9 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS NIGERIALTD Nigeria 100 Ichhunadi Marg, Baluwatar, Ward No.
4, ARMORGROUP NIGERIA LTD Nigeria 100 Kathmandu Metropolitan City, Kathmandu, Nepal 13A, A. J. Marinho Drive, Victoria Island, G4S SECURITY SERVICES NEPAL P LTD Nepal 99 Lagos, Nigeria SECURITAS PRODUCT NEPAL P. LTD Nepal 100 SCHCLTD Nigeria 99.9 G4S FACILITY & EMPLOYMENT SERVICES NEPAL PVT.
LTD Nepal 100 AIB Plaza, Off Akin Adesola Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria P. O.
Box 20423, House # 75 45, Lazimpat, G4S TRACKING SOLUTIONSLTD Nigeria 60 Kailash Chaur, Kathmandu, Nepal FIRST SELECT NEPAL P LTD Nepal 100 1 Murtala Mohammed Drive Formerly Bank Road, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria Hogehilweg 12, 1101CD Amsterdam ASSETGUARD SERVICESLTD Nigeria 100 Zuidoost, Netherlands G4S INTERNATIONAL NL BV Netherlands 100 Plot 7a Acme Road, Block C, Ogba Inustrial G4S HOLDING B BV Netherlands 100 Scheme, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria G4S INDIA HOLDINGS NL BV Netherlands 100 G4S GLOBAL RISKS NIGERIALTD Nigeria 100 G4S SECURE MONITORING BV Netherlands 100 G4S INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS 101 PMB 384 PPP Box 1000, 96950 Saipan, NL BV Netherlands 100 Northern Mariana Islands G4S SECURITY SERVICES BV Netherlands 100 Northern G4S HOLDINGS 102 NL B. V. Netherlands 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS CNMI INC. Mariana Islands 100 G4S HOLDINGS 103 NL BV Netherlands 100 G4S GROUP HOLDING ASIA BV Netherlands 100 P. O.
Box 1625, 112, Ruwi Muscat, Oman G4S BEHEER BV Netherlands 100 G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS LLC Oman 49 G4S SERVICES BV Netherlands 100 G4S SERVICES LLC Oman 49 G4S PUBLIC SECURITY BV Netherlands 100 IBG EUROPE BV Netherlands 100 B-61, KDA Scheme 01, 7550 Karachi, G4S OVERSEAS HOLDINGS BV Netherlands 100 Pakistan HILL & ASSOCIATES PAKISTAN PVT.
LTD Pakistan 100 Evert van fide Beekstraat 1 rumimtenummer 66, Luchthaven Schiphol, 1118 CL Calle 41, 2-40 Bella Vista, Panama Netherlands INVERSIONES SETESCA Panama 100 G4S AVIATION SECURITY BV Netherlands 100 SEGURIDAD TECNICA SA Panama 44 TELEMETRIA Y ALARMA SA Panama 17.6 Ptolemaeuslaan 61, 3528 BR Utrecht, Netherlands DETECTA SA Panama 44 G4S CASH SOLUTIONS BV Netherlands 100 LIMPIE SA Panama 44 METERS CORP. Panama 100 G4S CASH MANAGEMENT BV Netherlands 100 Marbella, Ave. Aquilino fide la Guardia Galvanistraat 89, 6716 AE Ede, Netherlands OceanBusiness Plaza, Piso 17-1704, G4S TRAINING & SAFETY BV Netherlands 100 Panama City, Panama G4S DIRECT BV Netherlands 100 G4S S. A. Panama 100 ROTUS BV Netherlands 100 210 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Section 61, Allotment 13, Morata Street, Bulevar Peka Dapcevica 32 Belgrade, Serbia Gordons, National Capital District, G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS D. O. O. Serbia 85 Papua New Guinea Papua New 6 Spur Road, P. O Box, Freetown, G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS PNG LTD Guinea 100 Sierra Leone c o Sinton Spence Chartered Accountants G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SL LTD Sierra Leone 100 2nd Floor Brian Bell Plaza Turmu St. Boroko, Boroko, Papua New Guinea 8 Commonwealth Lane, #04-04 Annex, Papua New 149555 Singapore MONT BLANC LTD Guinea 100 GROUP 4 SECURICOR S PTE.
LTD Singapore 100 G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS S PTE.
LTD Singapore 100 PO Box 5392 Boroko NCD, Papua New G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SINGAPORE Guinea PTE.
LTD Singapore 100 25.3 Papua New G4S PNG LTD Guinea 100 158 Cecil Street, 069 545 #11-01 Singapore G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Nery Quevedo 315 Esq.
Hipolito Garron, SINGAPORE PTE LTD Singapore 100 Asuncion, Paraguay 51 Cuppage Road, #10-18, 229469, WACKENHUT PARAGUAY SA Paraguay 80 Singapore Av.
El Sol 916, Urbanizacin La Campia.
HILL & ASSOCIATES RISK CONSULTING SINGAPORE PTELTD Singapore 100 Chorrillos, Lima, Peru G4S PERU S. A. C. Peru 99 Visnova 16, 831 01 Bratislava, Slovak G4S SECURE MONITORING AND RESPONSE PERU S. A. C. Peru 99 Republic G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS SK S. R. O. Slovak Republic 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SK, A. S. Slovak Republic 100 100 E. Rodriquez Avenue, Ugong Norte, 1552 Quezon City, Philippines G4S FIRE SERVICES SK, S. R. O Slovak Republic 100 G4S CASH SOLUTIONS PHILLIPINESINC.
Philippines 51 G4S TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS SK, S. R. O Slovak Republic 100 Carretera #1 Plaza Bairoa, Suite 211, Stegne 21, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia Caguas, Puerto Rico G4S DRUZBA ZA VAROVANJE D. O. O. G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS PUERTO G4S D. O. O. Slovenia 49 RICO INC. Puerto Rico 100 Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 15 Charles fide Gaulle Square, 12th floor, Candela Street, Highveld Ext 73, 0157 District 1, Bucharest, Romania Centurion, South Africa G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SRL Romania 100 GROUP 4 FALCK PTY LTD South Africa 100 G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SRL Romania 100 G4S SECURITY SERVICES AFRICA G4S FIRE & SAFETY S. R. L. Romania 100 PROPRIETARY LTD South Africa 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS SA PTY 36 Dzerzhinskogo, iii LTD South Africa 79.1 693000 Yuzhno Sakhalinsk, Russia G4S AVIATION SECURITY SA PTY LTD South Africa 79.1 LLC PSE G4S SECURITY SERVICES G4S INTEGRITY ASSESSMENT PTY LTD South Africa 79.1 SAKHALIN Russia 100 GRAY SECURITY SERVICES SA PROPRIETARY LTD South Africa 79.1 62A Amurskaya Str, Office 103, 693000 iii G4S CASH SOLUTIONS SA PTY LTD South Africa 74.9 Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Russia G4S INSURANCE SA LTD South Africa 74.9 LLC G4S TECNICAL SOLUTIONS ELWIERDA GAUTENG PTY LTD South Africa 74.9 SAKHALIN Russia 100 CMS MICRO FINANCE PTY LTD South Africa 74.9 G4S EMPOWERMENT VENTURES SA Building 1, 4 Ukhtomsky Pereulok, 111020 PTY LTD South Africa 79.1 Moscow, Russia G4S CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES G4S EURASIA LLC Russia 100 SOUTH AFRICA PTY LTD South Africa 100 G4S CORRECTION SERVICES 107023, Moscow, M. Semenovskaya str.
9, BLOEMFONTEIN PTY LTD South Africa 81 bld I Russia GSL REBOUND PTY LTD South Africa 100 GROUP 4 SECURICOR LLC Russia 99 SKYCOM PTY LTD South Africa 79.1 ACCESS AND BEYOND PTY LTD South Africa 79.1 5698 Nyarutarama, P. O.
Box 7230, Kigali, INTEGRATED SKY FORCE SOLUTIONS Rwanda PTY LTD South Africa 79.1 G4S RWANDALTD Rwanda 99 INVESTMENT SURVEYS PTY LTD South Africa 100 G4S DEPOSITA RF PTY LTD South Africa 74.9 P. O.
Box CP 6098 Conway Post Office, G4S ATM ENGINEERING SA PTY LTD South Africa 74.9 Castries, Saint Lucia INTEGRA PTY LTD South Africa 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ST. LUCIA LTD Saint Lucia 51 THETHA TECHNOLOGIES PTY LTD South Africa 74.9 G4S AFRICA PROPRIETARY LTD South Africa 100 P. O.
Box 31049, 21497 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia AL MAJAL GROUP 4S FOR SECURITY AND SAFETY LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY Saudi Arabia 49 Post Code 6930, 21452 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia AL MAJAL SERVICE MASTER LLC Saudi Arabia 49 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 211 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 42.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc G4S VALUABLE LOGISTICS SA 2922 205-206 Charn Issara Tower II, 11th PTY LTD South Africa 100 Floor, New Petchburi Road, Bangkapi, CMS MANCO PROPRIETARY LTD South Africa 74.89 Huaykwang, 10310 Bangkok, Thailand G4S THAILAND LTD Thailand 73.5 G4S SECURITY SERVICES Unit 31, First Floor Waterford Office Park, THAILAND LTD Thailand 73.7 Corner Witkoppen & Waterford Road, G4S HOLDINGS THAILAND LTD Thailand 73.4 Fourways 1610, South Africa INTER-ASIAN ENTERPRISES IAE G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS COMPANYLTD Thailand 73.5 SOUTH AFRICA PTY.
South Africa 100 ASIAN HOLDING INTERNATIONAL COMPANYLTD Thailand 73 Sorento Suite, 5 fide Haviland Crescent, HILL RISK CONSULTING THAILAND Ill Villaggio Persequor Pretoria, Gauteng, iii CO. LTD Thailand 49 South Africa G4S HOLDINGS 4 THAILAND LTD Thailand 48.9 INDO BRITISH GARMENTS PVT.
LTD, G4S HOLDINGS 3 THAILAND LTD Thailand 48.9 EXTERNAL PROFIT South Africa 100 G4S HOLDINGS 2 THAILAND LTD Thailand 48.9 G4S HOLDINGS 1 THAILAND LTD Thailand 48.9 21 Vauxhall Street, 2 Colombo, Sri Lanka G4S SECURITY SERVICES PRIVATE LTD. Sri Lanka 60 45 1 Silom 19 Building, 2nd Floor, Soi Silom 19, Silom Road, Silom, 10500 Bangrak, 8 Mek Nimer Street, P. O.
Box 47, Bangkok, Thailand Khartoum, Sudan G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS ARMORGROUP SUDANESE COLTD Sudan 100 HOLDING THAILAND LTD Thailand 100 G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS c o Eversheds Sutherland AG, THAILAND LTD Thailand 100 Stadelhoferstrasse, 22 8001, Zurich, Switzerland 61-63 Edward Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS & Tobago SWITZERLAND AG Switzerland 100 Trinidad & G4S HOLDINGS TRINIDAD LTD Tobago 51 Al-Aasar Building, near the Central Post Trinidad & G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS office, Sinjikdar, Damascus, Syria TRINIDAD LTD Tobago 51 GROUP 4 SYRIA LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY Syria 29.4 Ayazaga Mah.
Ataturk Cad Mezarlik Sok No 1 Ayazaga, Sariyer, Istanbul, Turkey 20F-1, No.
266, Sec 1, Wenhua 2nd Road, G4S GVENLIK HIZMETLERI ANONIM Linkou Dist, 24448 New Taipei City, Taiwan IRKETI Turkey 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS TAIWAN LTD Taiwan 100 G4S ELEKTRONIK SISTEMLERI ANONIM G4S ATM SOLUTIONS TAIWAN LTD Taiwan 100 IRKETI Turkey 100 G4S PROPERTY MANAGEMENTLTD Taiwan 100 G4S SECUREWELL SECURE SOLUTIONS Plot 6, Nakasero Road, Nakasero, Kampala, TAIWAN LTD Taiwan 100 Uganda HILL & ASSOCIATES TAIWAN LTD Taiwan 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS UGANDA LTD Uganda 100 20F-2, No.
266, sec 1, wun hua 2nd road, Plot 53 Lumumba Avenue, Nakasero, Linko Distt, 24448 Taipei City, Taiwan Kampala, Uganda G4S WEI FUNG SECURE SOLUTIONS ALARM PROTECTION SERVICESLTD Uganda 100 TAIWAN LTD Taiwan 100 US DEFENSE SYSTEMS LLC UGANDA Uganda 100 6F.
21A Moskovskij ave, 02073 Kiev, Ukraine Taipei City 11493, Taiwan R. O.
C, 22101 GROUP 4 SECURITAS LLC Ukraine 99.4 Taipei, Taiwan G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS UKRAINE LTD Ukraine 100 G4S SYSTEM ENGINEERING G4S SECURITY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION Taiwan 85 UKRAINE LTD Ukraine 100 16th Floor, Suite 1, No.
1, Chain Tower Oriental Travel Building, Wen-Hwa 2nd Road, Linko Hsiang, Taipei, First Floor, Muroor Street, Taiwan, 22101 Taipei, Taiwan P. O.
Box 31859 Abu Dhabi, G4S SECURITY SYSTEMS CO. LTD Taiwan 85 UnitedArabEmirates United Arab Plot No.
37, Ali Hassan Mwinyi Road, G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS LLC Emirates 49 Kinondoni Municipality, P O Box 5555, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania P. O.
Box 32634, Dubai, G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS TZ LTD Tanzania 100 UnitedArabEmirates United Arab TDFL, 3rd Floor Opposite Sheraton Hotel, GROUP 4 FALCK SERVICES LLC Emirates 49 Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania United Arab GROUP 4 SECURICOR INFORMATION ARMORGROUP TANZANIALTD Tanzania 100 TECHNOLOGY UAE LLC G4S Emirates 48.5 United Arab GROUP 4 SECURICOR FACILITY SERVICES LLC G4S Emirates 48.5 United Arab SHAMS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES L. L. C G4S Emirates 48.5 United Arab FIRST SELECT UAE LLC Emirates 48.5 212 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc P. O.
Box 31859, Abu Dhabi, Challenge House, International Drive, UnitedArabEmirates Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, GL20 8UQ, UnitedKingdom United Arab G4S ALARM MONITORING SERVICES LLC Emirates 49 G4S TECHNOLOGYLTD United Kingdom 100 AMAG TECHNOLOGYLTD United Kingdom 100 Unit 1-05, Street W B 4, Airport Free Zone, 54907, UnitedArabEmirates Sutton Park House, 15 Carshalton Road, United Arab G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS Sutton, Surrey, SM1 4LD, UnitedKingdom MIDDLE EAST FZE Emirates 100 G4S SECURITY SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S AVIATION SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100 Dubai, 215634, UnitedArabEmirates G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom 100 United Arab G4S CASH SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S EVENTS SERVICES UAE LLC Emirates 48 G4S CASH CENTRES UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S TRUSTEESLTD United Kingdom 100 100 Unit No.
Al Mas 2 D14, Al Mas Tower, G4S CASH SOLUTIONS EMPLOYEES' Plot No.
LT2, Jumeirah Lake Tower Dubai, v CRIMINAL ATTACK FUNDLTD United Kingdom UnitedArabEmirates G4S BULLION SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom 100 United Arab G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS G4S GURKHA SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100 MIDDLE EAST DMCC Emirates 100 5th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, Unit no.
JLT-PH SW1E 6QT London, UnitedKingdom 2- W1A, Jumeirah Lake Towers, Dubai, GROUP 4LTD United Kingdom 100 UnitedArabEmirates G4S GLOBAL HOLDINGSLTD United Kingdom 100 United Arab G4S REGIONAL MANAGEMENT SECURICORLTD United Kingdom 100 CONSULTANCY ME DMCC Emirates 100 G4S INTERNATIONAL 105 UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S AMERICAS UK LTD United Kingdom 100 Level 14 Tower 2, Al Fattan Currency G4S AVIATION FRANCE LTD United Kingdom 100 House, Dubai International Financial Centre, G4S HOLDINGS UK AG LTD United Kingdom 100 Dubai, Uinited Arab Emirates G4S MP UK LTD United Kingdom 100 United Arab G4S NOMINEESLTD United Kingdom 100 G4S CASH 360 INTERNATIONAL FZCO Emirates 100 G4S INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGSLTD United Kingdom 100 G4S FINANCE MANAGEMENT AG LTD United Kingdom 100 Level 14 203 Al Shamal Building Plot # 113- G4S FINANCELTD United Kingdom 100 100 242, Al Daghya Deira, UnitedArabEmirates FIRST SELECT HOLDINGSLTD United Kingdom 100 United Arab G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS MIDDLE G4S US HOLDINGSLTD United Kingdom 100 EAST LLC Emirates 49 G4S WORLDWIDE HOLDINGSLTD United Kingdom 100 G4S DEFENCE SYSTEMS EURASIALTD United Kingdom 100 Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, G4S DSL HOLDINGSLTD United Kingdom 100 SW1E 6QT, UnitedKingdom iii G4S HOLDINGS INTERNATIONAL G4S UK HOLDINGSLTD United Kingdom 100 AG LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S 084 UK LTD United Kingdom 100 99.8 G4S US INVESTMENTSLTD United Kingdom 100 G4S CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES IBG HOLDINGS UK LTD United Kingdom 100 UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S INTERNATIONAL FINANCE PLC United Kingdom 100 100 G4S GOVERNMENT SERVICESLTD United Kingdom 100 G4S CORPORATE SERVICESLTD United Kingdom 100 100 G4S 308 UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S FINANCE BRAZIL LTD United Kingdom 100 100 G4S 309 UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S INVESTMENT LONDONLTD United Kingdom 100 100 G4S 182 UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S REGIONAL MANAGEMENT iii Unit 6, Central Park Estate, Staines Road, UK&I LTD United Kingdom 100 Hounslow, England, TW4 5DJ G4S FACILITIES MANAGEMENT iii UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S OVERSEAS HOLDINGSLTD United Kingdom 100 G4S GOVERNMENT AND OUTSOURCING SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100 46 Gillingham Street, London, SW1V 1HU, STRATUS INTEGRATED SERVICESLTD United Kingdom 100 UnitedKingdom G4S RISK MANAGEMENTLTD United Kingdom 100 G4S HEALTH SERVICES UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS IRAQ LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S INVESTIGATION SOLUTIONS UK LTD United Kingdom 100 G4S RISK CONSULTINGLTD United Kingdom 100 G4S FINANCE SOUTH AFRICA LTD United Kingdom 100 100 G4S ORDNANCE MANAGEMENTLTD United Kingdom 100 G4S MONITORING TECHNOLOGIESLTD United Kingdom 100 G4S INTEGRATED SERVICES Site 16 Sydenham Buisness Park HOLDINGSLTD United Kingdom 100 Airport Road West, Belfast, BT3 9LN, UnitedKingdom G4S FIRE AND SECURITY SYSTEMSLTD United Kingdom 100 20701 Manhattan Place, CA 90501-1829 Torrance, UnitedStates iii AMAG TECHNOLOGYINC United States 100 Pension trust not part of the consolidation.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 213 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 42.
Details of Related Undertakings of G4S plc continued Subsidiaries continued Country of % owned % owned Country of % owned % owned Company Name Incorporation by group by plc Company Name Incorporation by group by plc 2711 Centerville rd, 19808 Wilmington, fide, Cufre 2320, Montevideo, Uruguay United States G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS URUGUAY S. A. Uruguay 80 G4S HOLDING ONEINC.
United States 100 WACKENHUT U. S. PROPERTIESINC.
United States 100 Los Ruices Sur, Calle Milan 1013, WACKENHUT FOREIGN PROPERTIESINC.
United States 100 iv Caracas, Venezuela US DEFENSE SYSTEMS LLC United States 100 SETECSA fide VENEZUELA CA Venezuela 30 G4S RETAIL SOLUTIONS USA INC. United States 100 P. O.
Box 32914, 10 H Kabulonga Road, 900 Market Street, Suite 200, DA 19801 Lusaka, Zambia Wilmington, Delaware, United States G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS ZAMBIALTD Zambia 100 TUHNECKCAWINC.
United States 100 Plot 3144, Mukwa Road, Lusaka, Zambia 4200 Wackenhut Drive, Suite 100, FL 33410 SAFETECH COPPERBELT LTD Zambia 100 Palm Beach Gardens, FL, United States AMERICAN GUARD & ALERTINC.
United States 100 Plot 7305, Kambala Road, Lusaka, Zambia TWC FL 01INC.
United States 100 SAFETECH ZAMBIALTD Zambia 100 WACKENHUT HOMELAND SECURITY, INC. United States 100 G4S USINC.
United States 100 PROLOGIS Cargo Center 75, JFK International Airport, North Hangar Road, Suite 210 Jamaica 11430 New York, UnitedStates G4S INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS USA, INC. United States 100 1395 University Blvd, 33458 Jupiter, FL, United States VEBA TRUST United States 100 iv G4S GUATEMALA HOLDING, LLC United States 100 iv G4S ELECTRONICA HOLDING, LLC United States 100 G4S GUATEMALA FACILITY iv SERVICES, LLC United States 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS USA INC. United States 100 G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS INTERNATIONALINC.
United States 100 910 Paverstone Drive, 27615 Raleigh, NC, United States G4S COMPLIANCE & INVESTIGATIONS, INC. United States 100 21 North Avenue, MA 01803 Burlington, United States G4S TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS USA INC. United States 100 G4S TECHNOLOGY SOFTWARE iv United States 100 SOLUTIONS LLC 1209 Orange Street, fide 19801 Wilmington, Delaware, United States RONCO CONSULTING CORPORATION United States 100 1200 Landmark Center, Ste 1300, 68102 Omaha, NE, United States iv G4S SECURE INTEGRATION LLC United States 100 ADESTA LLC United States 100 601 Abbot Rd.
48823 Lansing, United States RENAISSANCE CENTER iii MANAGEMENT COMPANY United States 90.9 156 College Street, 3rd Floor, 05401 VT, IS, UnitedStates TITANIA INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA United States 100 701 Brazos Suite 1050, 78701 Austin, Texas, United States SERVICE AND SUPPLY INTERNATIONAL, INC. United States 100 214 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Holdings in other undertakings Country of % owned by % owned Company Name Incorporation group by plc The Group has a legal interest in the entities listed below which are Challenge House, International Drive, joint ventures, where the economic interest has been divested and Tewkesbury, GL20 8UQ, are therefore not included in theconsolidation.
UnitedKingdom United Country of % owned by % owned ACCOMMODATION SERVICES Company Name Incorporation group by plc HOLDINGS LTD Kingdom 8.39 United 3rd Floor, Broad Quay House, INTEGRATED ACCOMODATION SERVICES PLC Kingdom 8.39 Prince Street, Bristol BS1 4DJ, United UnitedKingdom EAST LONDON LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICESLTD Kingdom 5.03 United United G4S INVESTMENTSLTD Kingdom 16.78 EAST LONDON LIFT COMPANYLTD Kingdom 5.03 United United G4S JOINT VENTURESLTD Kingdom 16.78 EAST LONDON LIFT INVESTMENTLTD Kingdom 8.39 United G4S JOINT VENTURES FAZAKERLEY LTD Kingdom 16.78 United EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO NO2LTD Kingdom 5.03 United EAST LONDON LIFT FAZAKERLEY PRISON SERVICESLTD Kingdom 16.78 United ACCOMMODATION SERVICES United G4S JOINT VENTURES NO2LTD Kingdom 5.03 ONLEY LTD Kingdom 16.78 United EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO United NO4LTD Kingdom 5.03 ONLEY PRISON SERVICESLTD Kingdom 16.78 United EAST LONDON LIFT HOLDCO United OCHRE SOLUTIONS NO3LTD Kingdom 5.03 HOLDINGS LTD Kingdom 3.36 United United ELLAS NO3LTD Kingdom 5.03 OCHRE SOLUTIONSLTD Kingdom 3.36 United United ELLAS NO4LTD Kingdom 5.03 NORTH WILTSHIRE SCHOOLSLTD Kingdom 16.78 United LIFT HEALTHCARE United UK COURT SERVICES INVESTMENTSLTD Kingdom 2.85 MANCHESTER HOLDINGSLTD Kingdom 16.78 United BEXLEY BROMLEY & GREENWICH United UK COURT SERVICES LIFT COMPANYLTD Kingdom 1.71 MANCHESTER LTD Kingdom 16.78 United United WHITE HORSE EDUCATION BBG HOLDCOLTD Kingdom 1.71 PARTNERSHIPLTD Kingdom 16.78 United BBG LIFT ACCOMMODATION United HULL MATERNITY SERVICESLTD Kingdom 1.71 DEVEOPMENTLTD Kingdom 16.78 United United BBG LIFT HOLDCO NO 2 LTD Kingdom 1.71 HEALTHCARE PROVIDERSLTD Kingdom 16.78 United BBG LIFT ACCOMMODATION United ALBION HEALTHCARE OXFORD SERVICES NO 2 LTD Kingdom 1.71 HOLDINGSLTD Kingdom 4.19 United United ALBION HEALTHCARE BHH LIFT COMPANYLTD Kingdom 1.71 OXFORD LTD Kingdom 4.19 United BHH HOLDCOLTD Kingdom 1.71 United BHH LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICESLTD Kingdom 1.71 HEALTHCARE IMPROVEMENT United PARTNERSHIP WOLVERHAMPTON CITY AND WALSALL LTD Kingdom 1.71 United WOLVERHAMPTON CITY AND WALSALL HOLDCOLTD Kingdom 1.71 WOLVERHAMPTON CITY AND United WALSALL LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICESLTD Kingdom 1.71 United WALSALL HOLDCOLTD Kingdom 1.71 United WALSALL LIFT ACCOMMODATION SERVICESLTD Kingdom 1.71 United LONDON LIFTCO PSLTD Kingdom 2.82 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 215 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Other Significant Holdings Company Name % owned by group Profit or loss Registered address 1395 University Blvd.
33458 Jupiter, G4S-SJC LLC 20 not material UnitedStates 7121 Fairway Drive, Suite 301, 33418 G4S PARSONS Palm Beach Gardens, FL, UnitedStates PACIFIC LLC 20 not material POLICITY - OPERATOR LIMITED 25 not material Virginia I, Beit Shemesh, Israel Joint Ventures % owned by group Factors on which joint Date of last financial Company Name Registered address undertakings management is based year if not 31 12 Ent A, Level 1, Capital Business Centre, Triq ta-Zwejt, SGN PARKSEC LIMITED 3000 San Gwann, Malta 50.1 Joint venture agreement 1 director appointed to PACIFIC BUILDING SERVICES Level 6, Era Rumana Building Champions Parade, Port Moresby, MANAGEMENT LIMITED JV Papua New Guinea 50 the board BRIDGEND CUSTODIAL Challenge House, International Drive, Tewkesbury, ii SERVICES LIMITED GL20 8UQ, United Kingdom 58.68 Joint venture agreement 30 September BLOEMFONTEIN CORRECTIONAL Byls Bridge Office Park, Building 11, 13 Candela Street, Highveld CONTRACTS PTY LIMITED Ext 73, 0157 Centurion, South Africa 20 Joint venture agreement 30 September C-16, Community Centre, Janakpuri, Behind Janak Cinema, FORBES G4S SOLUTIONS PVTLTD 110058 New Delhi, India 50 Joint venture agreement Villa no.
321, Corner of Abduallah Bin Rawaha Street, C Ring G4S QATAR S. P. C Road, P. O.
Box 18592 Doha, Qatar 0 Joint venture agreement Parc Industriel fide la CFCIM, lot No63, Bouskoura, BUSINESS CASH CENTER S. A. Casablanca, Morocco 45.7 Joint venture agreement Joint Venture T. I. S. TOTAL INTEGRATED Diianiras 17, 2045 Strovolos Nicosia, P. O.
Box 23989 1687, SERVICESLTD Nicosia, Cyprus 50 Agreement CLASSIFICATIONS KEY i Ordinary shares ii Deferred shares iii Preference including cumulative, non-cumulative and redeemable shares iv Units v Limited by guarantee 216 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018
