Corporate governance Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law Corporate Governance Report, confirm that, to the best of and regulation.
their knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial - the Group and Company financial statements, which statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors havebeen prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by have prepared the Group and Company financial statements the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and IFRSs asadopted by the European Union.
Under company profit of the Company: and law the Directors must not approve the financial statements - the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of and performance of the business and the position of the Group the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit and Company, together with a description of the principal or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing risks and uncertainties that they face.
the financial statements, the Directors are required to: In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors - select suitable accounting policies and then apply Report is approved: themconsistently: - so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit - state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European information of which the Group and Companys auditors Union have been followed for the Group and Company areunaware: and financial statements, subject toany material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: - they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any - make judgements and accounting estimates that are relevant audit information and to establish that the Group reasonable and prudent: and and Companys auditors are aware of that information.
- prepare the financial statements on the going concern Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf.
basisunless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Samir Desai Chief Executive Officer records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and 7 March 2019 Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assetsof the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud andother irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
