Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 28,335 16,307 2,289 746 Short term bank deposits 210 1,603 - - Cash and cash equivalents 28,545 17,910 2,289 746 The Groups cash and cash equivalents are repayable on demand.
There were no utilised borrowing facilities at 3 June 2018 or 28 May 2017.
Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and credit risk.
The Groups financial risk management objective is to understand the nature and impact of the financial risks and exposures facing the business.
Foreign currency risk The majority of the Groups business is transacted in sterling, euros and US dollars.
The principal currency of the Group is sterling.
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk principally via: - transactional exposure arising from the future sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the transacting company.
- translation exposure arising on investments in foreign operations, where the net assets are denominated in a currency other than sterling.
The Group does not use foreign currency borrowings or forward foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risk.
The level of the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is regularly reviewed by the Groups finance director and the Groups treasury policies, including hedging policies, are reviewed to ensure they remain appropriate.
Foreign exchange sensitivity The impact on the Groups financial assets and liabilities from foreign currency volatility is shown in the sensitivity analysis below.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared based on all material financial assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date and does not reflect all the changes in revenue or expenses that may result from changing exchange rates.
The analysis is prepared for the euro and US dollar given that these represent the major foreign currencies in which financial assets and liabilities are denominated.
The sensitivities shown act as a reasonable benchmark considering the movements in currencies over the last two financial periods.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: - financial assets and liabilities including financial instruments are only considered sensitive to movements in foreign currency exchange rates where they are not in the functional currency of the entity that holds them.
- translation of results of overseas subsidiaries is excluded.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the sensitivity of the Groups income statement to movements in foreign exchange rates on US dollar and euro financial assets and liabilities: 2018 2017 Income gain Income gain Group 000 000 15% appreciation of the US dollar 2017: 15% 957 561 15% appreciation of the euro 2017: 15% 3 28 A depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect.
There is no impact on equity gains or losses.
Interest rate risk The Group no longer has a significant exposure to interest rate risk and hence no interest rate sensitivity has been shown.
Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial institutions as well as credit exposures to independent retailers.
The Group controls credit risk from a treasury perspective by only entering into transactions involving financial instruments with authorised counter-parties with a credit rating of at least A, and by ensuring that such positions are monitored regularly.
Credit risk on cash and short term deposits is limited because the counter-parties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of customers that are internationally dispersed.
Policies are also in place to ensure the wholesale sales of products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history and credit limits are periodically reviewed.
Amounts recoverable from customers are reviewed on an ongoing basis and appropriate provision made for bad and doubtful debts note 18.
Provision requirements are determined with reference to ageing of invoices, credit history and other available information.
Sales made through our own retail stores or our global web stores are made in cash or with major credit cards.
