40 Galliford Try plc Operating sustainably Each of our businesses does its part to help us become more sustainable Underpinning our strategy to 2021 is our belief that for longer-term value creation, we must balance financial performance with our obligations to all our stakeholders, including clients, customers, employees, supply chain partners and the communities and environment in which we operate.
Addressing the skills shortage Our industry plays a huge role in the countrys economy but it currently faces a major challenge due to a nationwide skills shortage.
We recognise this risk to the industry and strongly believe in a proactive approach to combat it.
We have an important role in helping to deliver employment and skills opportunities, adding value and creating social and economic benefits for the communities and neighbourhoods in which we work.
In a bid to bridge this skills gap, our Partnerships South West business has collaborated with the Working Skills Training Academy to launch the Galliford Try Partnerships Skills Academy an initiative designed to encourage the long-term unemployed back into work by offering work placements, full-time work and apprenticeships.
A prime driver of this project is to enable communities to prosper and thrive in the long term, providing a catalyst for economic growth.
So far, with an investment of 500,000, we have provided 360 work experience placements and engaged with 1,900 learners.
500,000 investment 360 work experience placements provided 1,900 learners engaged n o i t a Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information r e n e g e R & s p i h s r e n t r a P S & S H f H o e d a a d e o f H H S & S Annual Report and 41 Financial Statements 2018 Our approach Our performance Effective governance Our Sustainability and Social Value Policy Our overall performance as a FTSE 250 As outlined in the Chief Executives review on guides our approach and is owned by company is recognised in the FTSE4Good page 10, from 1 July 2018 we reorganised our the Executive Board, which executes its Index, an exclusive investor index consisting Health, Safety and Sustainability function to responsibility through the business Boards only of companies that effectively manage create one team for each business, enabling us as detailed on the right.
Our businesses their environmental, social and governance to better serve the businesses needs.
Each of then adopt their own specific approaches risks.
We were independently assessed to have our three businesses therefore has its own head to the policy.
achieved a score of 3.5 out of 5, improving on of Health, Safety and Sustainability HS&S last years score of 3.4 and increasing our reporting to the respective Executive Board, We assess and address sustainability impacts ranking to make us one of the higher performing all of which are accountable for sustainability in relation to six fundamental areas: constituents of the FTSE4Good index, in the across the Group.
top third of index members.
health and safety: The heads of HS&S form part of a newlyIn addition, we ranked fourth out of the top created Safety, Health and Environmental our people: 25 housebuilders in the NextGeneration Leadership Team SHELT, led by the SHELT environment and climate change: Sustainability Benchmark and won its Director, who ensures the businesses Innovation Award for Inclusion and Diversity, maintain our core Group mandates, policies communities: as well as achieving Gold status in the Supply and minimum standards, and facilitates Chain Sustainability School.
We also have a collaboration and best practice sharing customers: and CDP carbon disclosure score of C, which is between our businesses.
in line with the industry.
The SHELT Director reports directly to our These areas cover the manufactured, Chief Executive and regularly reports to the intellectual, human, social and relationship, Executive Board and the plc Board on our and natural capitals.
Safety, Health & Environmental Leadership Team structure 3.5 5 We were independently assessed to achieve a score of 3.5 out of 5 in the FTSE4Good Index SHELT & GROUP GOVERNANCE L i n d e n s H t n o e m m e t s s e v n I & n o i t c u r t s n o C S & S H f o d a e H 42 Galliford Try plc Operating sustainably continued During the year, we launched Virtual Health and safety is our top Reality VR training modules in areas such priority and we were pleased to as underground services, rail and aviation.
improve our performance, with an This allows our people to respond to and Health learn from a virtual health and safety Accident Frequency Rate of 0.11. incident page 43.
We believe our use of and safety This reflects our considerable 360-degree VR is a first in the industry and focus on health and safety and we are now developing other modules, for Accident Frequency Rate example on the plant pedestrian interface.
ongoing efforts to do even better.
RIDDORs per 100,000 hours worked Visible leadership is an important element Through our behavioural safety 0.12 of maintaining high standards.
We have 0.11 programme, Challenging Beliefs, Affecting 0.11 therefore doubled the number of safety 0.09 0.09 Behaviour, we have trained more than tours every director must complete each 1,850 behavioural coaches across our year, from six to 12.
In total, we completed Group and supply chain.
We continue 1,898 tours in the year 2017: 1,139. to work hard to enhance the programme, Target Actual Target Actual including the planned introduction of an Another important initiative in the year 2017 2017 2018 2018 app and web portal.
This will enable our was the introduction of a high-potential people to remain constantly up-to-date incident protocol.
This ensures we fully Accident Incident Rate and allow us to monitor individual learning.
investigate near-miss incidents that RIDDORs per 1,000 people The app will act as a constant coach for could have had a serious impact on our people on site, for example by using health and safety, with the results and 3.02 3.02 2.91 camera phones to identify pieces of plant 2.64 proposed remedial actions then reviewed 2.64 and prompting specific safety questions by a panel of senior executives.
suite of measures will also allow us to understand and address the underlying Enhancements to the programme this year causes and treat these issues with the included a focus on plant safety to avoid Target Actual Target Actual attention they deserve.
preventable overturns, which is an issue 2017 2017 2018 2018 for the industry.
This was also a key part of Regrettably, the Company was found our Stop Make a Change stand-down day, guilty in regard to an incident in 2015 at Key Performance Indicators which we held across the Group.
We also Tarporley Wastewater Treatment Works.
ran a Back to Basics programme, which Our first priority as a business is to ensure challenged our people to ensure they 59 that everyone goes home safely at the end were using the right person, with the of each day.
As a result, we have reviewed reportable RIDDOR accidents right planning and equipment, in the our already rigorous health and safety 2017: 58 right workplace.
procedures and policies and continue to stress the importance of following them.
90,661 Safe Behaviour Discussions 2017: 91,810 957 Focus on employees completed Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour training 2017: 906 wellbeing Wellbeing has been a major focus for us 1,898 this year and we believe we are now an director health, safety and industry leader.
Our Be Well programme sustainability tours provides a suite of tools aimed at 2017: 1,139 improving the physical and mental wellbeing of our people.
It includes online health assessments, mini-medicals, on-site health champions, discounted gym 0 memberships and an online community prohibition or improvement to help people track their health and notices received fitness regimes.
2017: 2 As part of Be Well, we signed up as a business partner of Mates in Mind, the mental health charity for the construction 336 industry.
The aim is to encourage people to people were trained in discuss their concerns and to look out for mental health awareness their co-workers.
We now have 61 Mates in Mind facilitators, 56 mental health first aiders and 213 line managers trained in mental health awareness.
We were delighted to receive a highly commended Mates in Mind impact award and to win Most Inspiring Mental Health Initiative at the Inspire Awards and Best Mental Health Strategy at the Employee Benefit Awards.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 43 Financial Statements 2018 A cutting-edge approach to training Our new VR training films give our people an impactful, close-up experience from a safe distance.
The first film we created shows the events that lead up to a worker accidentally hitting a power cable during excavation works.
The VR headsets provide a truly immersive experience and encourage constant vigilance from trainees.
Early results are promising, with 85% of trainees saying they would pay more attention to a VR film than other forms of training.
I was really impressed with the result.
Looking at something is so much better at getting the message across than just listening to someone talking.
Chris Seal Banksman 85% of trainees say they would pay more attention to a VR film than other forms of training 44 Galliford Try plc Operating sustainably continued workplace.
All of our employees are Attracting, developing and introduced to the Code of Conduct retaining the right talent for when starting with the business and its our businesses importance is reinforced throughout Our people the year, in particular at employee Our people play a critical role in achieving roadshows, briefings and via regular Key Performance Indicators our vision, strategy and objectives.
communication directly from our Chief We therefore ensure we select and retain Executive.
We also take the view that the right talent that helps to drive our we all have a duty to speak up when 14,388 business forward.
We do this by: we suspect wrongdoing.
We therefore training days delivered encourage people to use our independent, seeking individuals who have the right 2017: 16,753 anonymous whistleblowing hotline, which skills for the job and reflect our values allows issues to be dealt with in confidence and behaviours: and with the Groups support.
2.62 providing business-specific inductions Bribery and corruption which explain our commitment to our training days per employee Code of Conduct, which defines the legal 2017: 3.0 Our Policy and Guidance on the and moral standards and principles that Prevention of Corruption and Fraud set out how we work and what we value: reflects our zero tolerance approach to bribery, corruption and fraud of all kinds 16.6% being an equal opportunities employer, when dealing with clients, suppliers or any valuing and promoting a diverse employee churn rate other partners.
We subject our internal workforce and creating an inclusive 2017: 18.3% control systems and procedures to regular environment in which our people are audits to provide assurance that they encouraged to realise their full potential are effective in countering bribery and and can be themselves: corruption.
Anyone offering, giving, 5,485 requesting or taking bribes, or exhibiting investing in the learning, training and employees corrupt behaviour, is subject to disciplinary development of our people so they can 2017: 5,506 action.
Our responsibilities are detailed in effectively carry out their roles and our Code of Conduct and we provide responsibilities to the standard required mandatory training courses for all staff by our stakeholders and contribute to 7.6% on induction.
the Groups success together with of the workforce are personal growth: Diversity and inclusion graduates trainees apprentices undertaking talent and succession 2017: 4.9% To be a successful company, we draw planning to ensure business continuity: on a diverse range of skills and talents, recognising and rewarding employees and recruit from all sectors of the commitment to the Group through a community, seeking to ensure, wherever wide range of benefits beyond salary possible, that the composition of our and bonus: and workforce reflects the diversity of the communities in which we operate.
enabling employees to feed back on We firmly believe that every employee has our performance as an employer an equal right to opportunities within the through mediums such as our employee Group and we treat employees based on survey and developing actions based merit.
We value difference and promote on their responses.
respect and dignity for all regardless of an individuals race, colour, religion, Doing the right thing nationality, ethnic origin, gender, sexual orientation, age or any other attribute or To maintain our reputation, we have a duty quality.
We outline our approach in our to behave responsibly, both morally and Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Policy, legally.
We have developed our Code of covering recruitment and selection, Conduct Doing the right thing to help us promotion, training and monitoring.
achieve that by setting out our principles All our staff are required to complete a and policies, and how we apply these to mandatory course covering Diversity in everyday situations.
Above and beyond the Workplace when joining the business.
this, it defines how we behave in the Gender balance We aim for gender balance at all levels within the Group, as described on page 45.
1 1 Gender Ethnicity 2 Male Female White BME Unknown Total Group 4,036 1,375 2,866 192 2,353 3 Senior grades 250 20 204 5 61 1 Gender and ethnicity figures are based on employee numbers at year end 5,411.
Please also refer to pages 50 and 51 for further information on the Boards composition and gender diversity.
2 Black and Minority Ethnic BME.
3 Senior grades are defined as job grades AC, which encompasses senior managers and directors, excluding Board directors.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 45 Financial Statements 2018 Gender Pay Report In April, we published our Gender Pay Report, which outlines the difference in average pay between men and women Targeting the under-representation of women regardless of their role.
and promoting inclusivity in our sector Our report outlined that average pay and bonuses are between 31% and 41% higher for male employees than female employees.
The main reason for this gap, and common in our industry, is the under-representation of women in the organisation as a whole 25% : and the lack of women in more senior roles 9% in the upper quartile, at the time the data was collected.
Recognising the gap and being committed to closing it, we have developed a long-term plan to increase the representation of women in the workforce, particularly in more senior positions.
This plan focuses on creating more inclusive policies for a more flexible working environment.
We are also delivering targeted recruitment campaigns, shortlisting female candidates Inspire Summit Leadership, Diversity and for all positions wherever possible We sponsored this one-day conference Inclusion Network and promoting careers in construction which celebrated women working in UK We supported a Leadership Diversity and generally.
Our retention activities are construction, engineering and housing who Inclusion Network event in which MSP centered around sponsorship and are reshaping expectations and inspiring Ruth Davidson called for greater diversity coaching programmes and agile others to follow in their footsteps.
The event stimulated working arrangements.
women from our business took part in thinking and discussion about what focus sessions and live workshops covering businesses can do to move diversity and topics such as entry routes into the inclusion up the leadership agenda and Our report can be downloaded industry, the under-representation of play a vital role in readdressing balance, from http: www.
women at all levels in the industry and what from closing the gender pay gap to co. uk about-us companycan be done about it, ways to accelerate establishing LGBT networking groups.
careers, and peoples personal experiences.
Agile working Women in Property National We launched this programme to empower Student Awards employees to choose the way they work, We sponsored this event for the third year balancing their arrangements with their running to help encourage more women personal life and preferences.
As well as into the industry and show aspiring the wider benefit of a more engaged, professionals what they can achieve by committed and productive workforce, pursuing a career in the property sector.
adopting this approach also helps us to create a more inclusive culture by Career discussion panel improving our ability to attract and retain We hosted an event for our people people from more diverse talent pools, that profiled female leaders from our including parents, carers and those business, their routes to entry and how returning to work.
they developed their careers to inspire women and highlight role models within our own business.
Disability Confident Employer We are proud to be a Disability Confident Employer, an accreditation given to organisations that pledge to actively seek out and hire skilled disabled people, and to positively change attitudes, behaviours and cultures, within their businesses, supply chain and local communities.
46 Galliford Try plc Operating sustainably continued Investing in our people Listening to feedback Promoting human rights We have embedded succession planning We have looked very hard at how we can As a housebuilding, regeneration and further into our business by giving our make Galliford Try a better place to work.
construction business operating within teams more ownership and visibility of An important part of this was acting on the the UK, the key areas of our operation this important area.
results of our employee survey from June that could be affected by slavery and 2017 for which we partnered with Best human trafficking are our directly-hired We are in the process of designing a Companies.
We had a high response rate employees, agency workers working on series of Management Development of 73%, above the average of 51% for our behalf, subcontractor operatives programmes, looking at personal companies of our size, giving us a valuable working on our sites, and the workforce of effectiveness skills and upskilling insight into what we are doing well and our supply chain who supply materials to managers to make them more confident what we need to improve on.
We are committed to taking in their roles.
We appointed a new Head accredited by Best Companies as One to appropriate and proportionate steps to of Learning and Development last year, Watch.
Following the survey, we have mitigate the risk of these occurring within and are focusing on supporting individuals produced action plans specific to each of our business and our supply chain by in their current roles with specific the businesses and are in the process of verifying our employees have a right to development opportunities which will delivering them.
work in the UK, making employees aware be available via our learning platform, of their rights and entitlements via an the GT Academy later this year.
Employee Handbook, prohibiting the use of forced labour and providing every employee with training on modern slavery.
We aim only to engage with agency workers on a Preferred Supplier List, who are asked to ensure their workers have the right to work in the UK, who do not charge workers a work-finding fee and have procedures in place to minimise the risk of recruiting forced or compulsory labour.
We opt to work with Attracting talent subcontractors who share our values, and we procure the majority of our directly sourced materials from UKWe acknowledge there is a significant skills shortage in our industry based organisations that are required to and we are committed to help closing it, using the following methods: comply with UK laws on forced labour.
We annually publish a statement on our approach to tackling this issue on our website and our whistleblowing procedure allows any employee or third party to confidentially raise a concern.
5% Club STEM As a signed member of the 5% Club We promote the role of STEM we are committed to having 5% of Science, Technology, Engineering & our workforce in earn and learn Mathematics ambassadors by positions and, trainees, apprentices reaching out to local communities and graduates now make up 7.6% of and highlighting the many fantastic our workforce 2017: 4.9%.
opportunities available within construction to inspire the next generation of new entrants.
Open Doors Industrial Cadets As part of our involvement in Build We support Industrial Cadets, a UKs Open Doors event, we inspire workplace experience accreditation people into our industry by inviting which is increasingly being used by them to our sites to demonstrate how companies across the country to buildings and structures in their accredit their activities with young community are constructed and to people from their local communities.
showcase the diverse range of skills and professions needed on site.
This year, 25 of our sites opened to the public 2017: 14.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 47 Financial Statements 2018 Minimising our environmental impact We are committed to a policy of effectively Environment and managing our environmental performance to minimise the impact of our business climate change processes on the natural environment and the community at large.
Our Key Performance Indicators environmental impacts are identified, managed and mitigated from project to Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions 1 tonnes business level through our ISO 14001 44,733 certified management system.
42,222 39,013 38,290 38,595 33,308 31,998 30,217 We have successfully reduced our 44,733 total carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 emissions, even though the business Scope 1: Fuel our grown over the same period.
The 8,914 Driving sustainable 8,073 6,597 Scope 2: Electricity 5,720 reduction has been achieved by becoming Actual Actual Actual Actual more carbon efficient, generating only behaviour 2015 2016 2017 2018 1.42 tonnes of CO e per 100k revenue, 2 which is 58% less than in 2011 3.4 tonnes Waste per 100,000 revenue We have launched a new Office of CO e per 100k revenue.
2 tonnes of construction and demolition waste Sustainability Scheme that aims to embed Across most of our business, we achieved and reward sustainable behaviours that our target of producing less than nine are taking place in our offices.
The scheme 15.0 11.4 tonnes of waste per 100,000 of revenue.
is open to everyone and focuses on 12.0 11.4 However, the overall figures are skewed 9.0 9.0 sustainable behaviours rather than the 6.6 by one business that generated significant physical environment of the office, quantities of bituminous and excavation which is not always readily changeable.
waste, which was unavoidable due to the Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual nature of our construction works.
All offices are encouraged to take part and 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 measured across areas such as leadership, Our continued support of the National community involvement: carbon emissions Community Wood Recycling Project and waste, as well as wellbeing and ethical NCWRP through the disposal of 472 1.4 behaviour.
Points are awarded for tonnes of waste wood via local NCWRP different levels of accomplishment.
tonnes of Scope 1 and 2 carbon projects has resulted in the generation dioxide equivalent emissions per of four jobs and nine training days for So far 26 offices have taken part with 100,000 revenue 2017: 1.4 locally disadvantaged people, including 22 receiving Gold awards.
ex-offenders, those with mild mental health or learning difficulties, and people who have come through drug and alcohol 97.1% abuse.
This has provided them with the of construction and demolition waste opportunity to build confidence, learn diverted from landfill 2017: 88.5% new skills, and overcome barriers to finding work.
We remain committed to proactive 797 environmental management and employees completed environmental continue to deliver our bespoke training 2017: 1,132 environmental training to our senior management through a four-day IOSH Environmental Responsibilities course 0 as well as to our site management through an internally delivered environmental prosecutions or one-day Site Environmental Awareness fixed penalties 2017: 0 Training Scheme SEATS course.
92.5% of timber supplied with FSC PEFC certification 2017: 89.5% 99.8% of timber verified as coming from legal and sustainable sources 2017: 98.7% 1 Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions are reported by calendar year and since 2014 have been externally certified to ISO14064-3.
Emissions cover all those arising from our fleet, gas and electricity in all offices and sites and all other fuel used directly eg diesel on site etc as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol definitions of Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
48 Galliford Try plc Operating sustainably continued Stakeholder relationships Proactive engagement Supply chain Charitable donations time, materials and financial We recognise the importance of our We select suppliers and subcontractors that stakeholders views and actively listen to align with our business vision and values and respond to their concerns at all levels of and actively engage with our supply chain 512k 508k 487k 487k 218k 263k the organisation.
Engagement is extensive to promote our principles and practices.
115k and tailored at both project level and at 118k Time We are Gold status partners of the Supply 100k 61k 254k Group business level and includes our Materials 194k 184k Chain Business School and are committed people, customers, communities, Financial to empowering our supply chain through the supply chain and industry bodies.
Actual Actual Actual use of the schools resources.
2016 2017 2018 Customers We engage with our supply chain in various In Linden Homes and Partnerships & ways including inductions, e-bulletins, Considerate Constructors Scheme Regeneration, our Customer Charter details workshops and Meet the Buyer events.
average score out of 50 our commitment to a high-quality customer In Construction, we have developed the 37.4 37.4 37.1 service and providing customers with Advantage through Alignment programme information relevant to them at each stage to help us work more closely with carefully 37.4 of their purchase.
We issue the survey selected Aligned subcontractors by sharing carried out by the NHBC National House our vision, values and objectives with them, Building Council to all new homeowners opening up our training modules to them and incorporate their feedback into our and providing visibility of works.
Actual Actual Actual processes and training.
2016 2017 2018 We also host an annual Supply Chain In Construction, we seek clients who value a Business Briefing with circa 270 senior collaborative approach and aim to become managers and directors from our Group their long-term partner.
Our approach supply chain to outline to them our business to collaboration has been accredited to plans and approach to supply chain.
BS 11000, the best practice standard.
Many of our relationships are managed at a regional level to help us support local Shareholders communities and also provide us with We ensure there is clear, accurate and flexibility to suit the needs of our projects.
transparent communication between our Board and shareholders, and provide updates Communities on our strategy and progress towards our We are an Associate Member of the objectives, using platforms such as our Considerate Constructors Scheme, website, Annual Report and our AGM.
which assesses our sites for the contribution they have made towards improving the image Employees of construction by being more considerate We keep our people updated on our strategy, of local neighbourhoods and the public, progress against that strategy and their role the workforce and the environment.
in the wider context of the Group through This year, we received an average score of platforms such as regular leadership 37.4, which is the same as last year, and conferences, Chief Executives roadshow, exceeds the industry average.
regular emails from our Chief Executive, team briefings, toolbox talks on site, a We support charitable causes at Group, quarterly employee magazine, intranet, business, divisional, business unit and project Yammer groups, poster campaigns and level by donating time, money and materials.
We encourage two-way dialogue We are a patron of CRASH, the charity which using employee forums and surveys.
helps homelessness and hospices charities.
We also contribute to communities by spending a significant portion of our turnover with subcontractors, most of which are local small and medium-sized enterprises.
We encourage staff to volunteer for charitable and community causes, offering two days of paid leave per employee, per year.
This year, we provided 280 days of paid leave for volunteering.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 49 Financial Statements 2018 Non-financial reporting We aim to comply with the new non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The table below outlines to our stakeholders our position on key non-financial areas and how we manage them.
Reporting requirement Impacts Policies pursued Further information We employ 5,485 people.
Construction is an industry Code of Conduct Employees where health and safety is particularly important, Health & Safety given the relative dangers, and so this is a key focus for Policy Statement us.
We are also aware of the skills shortage in our industry and work hard to promote our industry to new people.
Recruitment Policy and We have a strong focus on employee wellbeing and Guidelines employ agile working practices.
Employee Wellbeing Policy Pages 40-48 Maternity, Paternity and Parental Leave Policies Equality Diversity and Inclusion Policy Flexible Working Policy Learning & Development Policy We use raw materials in the construction of our houses, Biodiversity Policy Environmental which are non-renewable resources and create carbon emissions.
It is also our responsibility to help our Energy Policy customers emit as little carbon as possible.
Pages 47-48 Responsible Sourcing Policy Environmental Policy Statement We recognise that our construction projects affect the Sustainability & Social Social surrounding area, so we aim to maximise the benefits Value Policy to the communities in which we work and minimise any negative impacts by actively engaging with Data Protection Policy Pages 40-48 local stakeholders.
Considerate Constructors Scheme principles We recognise that slavery and human trafficking are Modern Slavery Act Human rights significant human rights issues and are committed to Policy and Statement taking appropriate and proportionate steps to mitigating Page 46 the risk of these occurring within our business and our supply chain.
We are committed to conducting our business in an open, Corruption and Anti-corruption honest and ethical manner and take a zero-tolerance Fraud Prevention and anti-bribery approach to bribery and corruption of all kinds.
Policy and Guidelines Page 44 Whistleblowing Policy Code of Conduct For our business model, relationships, products and services see p4 For our related risks and how they are managed, see our Principal risks section on p22
