DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that year.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The directors confirm that they have considered and addressed the requirements of The Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Non-Financial Reporting Regulations 2016, SI 2016 No 1245.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 33, confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge: the Group and Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: and the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the board R F Tongue Group finance director and company secretary 30 July 2018 32 Games Workshop Group PLC
