FIVE YEAR SUMMARY 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 000 000 000 000 000 Revenue 219,868 158,114 118,069 119,132 123,501 Operating profit pre-exceptional items and royalties receivable 64,702 30,832 10,921 14,937 15,355 Exceptional items - - - 42 4,500 Royalties receivable 9,893 7,491 5,939 1,498 1,442 Operating profit 74,595 38,323 16,860 16,477 12,297 Finance income 90 87 93 109 106 Finance costs 139 7 5 1 7 Profit before taxation 74,546 38,403 16,948 16,585 12,396 Income tax expense 14,867 7,856 3,452 4,328 4,389 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 59,679 30,547 13,496 12,257 8,007 Basic earnings per ordinary share 185.0 95.1p 42.1p 38.3p 25.2p Pre-exceptional earnings per ordinary share 185.0 95.1p 42.1p 38.2p 36.1p FINANCIAL CALENDAR Annual general meeting 19 September 2018 Announcement of half year results January 2019 Financial year end 2 June 2019 Announcement of final results July 2019 63 Games Workshop Group PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of Games Workshop Group PLC the Company will be held at the Company's registered office, Willow Road, Lenton, Nottingham, NG7 2WS at 9.30am on 19 September 2018 for the following purposes: Ordinary business As ordinary business to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions 1 to 12 as ordinary resolutions: Resolution 1 To receive the Company's annual financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 3 June 2018 together with the directors' report, the remuneration report and the independent auditors report on those financial statements, the auditable part of the remuneration report and the directors report.
Resolution 2 To re-elect K D Rountree as a director.
Resolution 3 To re-elect R F Tongue as a director.
Resolution 4 To re-elect N J Donaldson as a director.
Resolution 5 To re-elect C J Myatt as a director.
Resolution 6 To re-elect E ODonnell as a director.
Resolution 7 To elect J R A Brewis as a director.
Resolution 8 To re-appoint  LLP as independent auditors to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which financial statements are laid by the Company.
Resolution 9 To authorise the directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 10 To approve the remuneration report excluding the directors remuneration policy set out on pages 23 to 27 for the 53 weeks ended 3 June 2018.
Resolution 11 To approve the directors remuneration policy as set out on pages 23 to 27.
Resolution 12 To approve the payment of a one off bonus award of 100% of salary to the executive directors in relation to performance in 2017 18 as set out on page 22.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolution 13 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 14 and 15 will be proposed as special resolutions.
Resolution 13 That the directors of the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Relevant Securities as defined below up to an aggregate nominal amount of 533,780 provided that this authority shall, unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, expire on 18 December 2019 or, if earlier, the date of the next annual general meeting of the Company save that the Company may, before such expiry, make offers or agreements which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted and the directors may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
This resolution revokes and replaces all unexercised authorities previously granted to the directors to allot Relevant Securities but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or grant of rights already made, offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such authorities.
64 Games Workshop Group PLC Resolution 13 continued Relevant Securities means: i shares in the Company other than shares allotted pursuant to an employee share scheme as defined by section 1166 of the Act, a right to subscribe for shares in the Company where the grant of the right itself constituted a Relevant Security or a right to convert securities into shares in the Company where the grant of the right itself constituted a Relevant Security: ii any right to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company other than rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares allotted pursuant to an employee share scheme as defined by section 1166 of the Act.
References to the allotment of Relevant Securities in this resolution include the grant of such rights.
Resolution 14 That subject to the passing of resolution 13 above, the directors of the Company be given the general power pursuant to sections 570 to 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot or make offers or agreements to allot equity securities for cash, either pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 13 above or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue so that for this purpose rights issue means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors to holders of equity securities on the register on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be to their respective holdings of such securities or in accordance with rights attached thereto but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors consider necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory: and b the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 80,875.
The power granted by this resolution will expire on 18 December 2019 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the Company's next annual general meeting unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company prior to or on such date save that the Company may, before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred by this resolution has expired.
This resolution revokes and replaces all unexercised powers previously granted to the directors to allot equity securities as if either section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 or section 561 1 of the Act did not apply but without prejudice to any allotment of equity securities already made or agreed to be made pursuant to such authorities.
For the purposes of this resolution the expression equity securities and references to allotment of equity securities respectively have the meanings given to them in section 560 of the Act.
Resolution 15 That the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine provided that: c the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or on 18 December 2019 whichever is the earlier: d the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares that may be purchased is 3,235,031: e the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is 5p: f the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of: i an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average market value of an ordinary share in the Company for the five business days prior to the day on which the purchase is made: and ii the value of an ordinary share calculated on the basis of the higher of the price quoted for: a the last independent trade of: and b the highest current independent bid for, any number of the Companys ordinary shares on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: and g the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the board R F Tongue Company secretary 30 July 2018 Registered office: Willow Road, Lenton Nottingham NG7 2WS Registered in England and Wales under number 2670969 65 Games Workshop Group PLC Notes 1.
Only those members registered on the Company's register of members at 6.30 pm on 17 September 2018 or, if this meeting is adjourned, at 6.30pm on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
If you are a member of the Company at the time set out in note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting and you should have received a proxy form with this document.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the chairman of the meeting or another person as your proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at the meeting you will need to appoint your own choice of proxy not the chairman and give your instructions directly to them.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
Details of how to appoint more than one proxy are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
The notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy how to vote on each resolution or withhold their vote.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
Your proxy will vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the meeting.
To appoint a proxy using the proxy form, the form must be completed and signed and sent or delivered to the Company's registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA so as to be received no later than 48 hours before the time fixed for holding the meeting.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the proxy form is signed or a duly certified copy of such power or authority must be included with the proxy form.
In the case of a member which is a company, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the Company or an attorney for the Company.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Company's register of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
To change your proxy instructions simply submit a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above.
The cut-off time for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions: any amended proxy appointment received after the relevant cut-off time will be disregarded.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
In order to revoke a proxy instruction you will need to inform the Company by sending a signed hard copy notice clearly stating your intention to revoke your proxy appointment to the Company's registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA.
In the case of a member which is a company, the revocation notice must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the Company or an attorney for the Company.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the revocation notice is signed or a duly certified copy of such power or authority must be included with the revocation notice.
The revocation notice must be received by the Company's registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA no later than the time fixed for holding the meeting.
If you attempt to revoke your proxy appointment but the revocation is received after the time specified then, subject to the paragraph directly below, your proxy appointment will remain valid.
Appointment of a proxy does not preclude you from attending the meeting and voting in person.
A corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise, on its behalf, all its powers as a member provided that no more than one corporate representative exercises powers over the same share.
As at 30 July 2018 being the last practical date prior to the publication of this notice, the Company's issued share capital comprised 32,350,318 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 30 July 2018 is 32,350,318.
The website referred to in note 21 will include information on the number of shares and voting rights.
If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a 'Nominated Person' you may have a right under an agreement between you and the member of the Company who has nominated you a 'Relevant Member' to have information rights to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Your main point of contact in terms of your investment in the Company remains the Relevant Member or, perhaps, your custodian or broker and you should continue to contact them and not the Company regarding any changes or queries relating to your personal details and your interest in the Company including any administrative matters.
The only exception to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from you.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of annual general meeting or any related documents including the proxy form, to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Under section 338 of the Companies Act 2006, a member or members meeting the qualification criteria set out at note 18 below, may, subject to conditions, require the Company to give to members notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at that meeting.
The conditions are that: a the resolution must not, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b the resolution must not be defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious: c the request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form see note 19 below, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given by either setting out the resolution in full or, if supporting a resolution sent by another member, clearly identifying the resolution which is being supported, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it see note 19 below : and must be received by the Company not later than 6 weeks before the meeting to which the request relates.
Under section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, a member or members meeting the qualification criteria set out at note 18 below, may, subject to conditions, require the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting a matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business a matter of business.
The conditions are that: a the matter of business must not be defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious, b the request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form see note 19 below, must identify the matter of business by setting it out in full or, if supporting a statement sent by another member, clearly identify the matter of business which is being supported, must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the persons or person making it see note 19 below and must be received by the Company not later than 6 weeks before the meeting to which the request relates.
66 Games Workshop Group PLC Notes continued 17.
Pursuant to Chapter 5 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 sections 527 to 531, where requested by a member or members meeting the qualification criteria set out at note 18 below, the Company must publish on its website, a statement setting out any matter that such members propose to raise at the meeting relating to the audit of the Companys financial statements including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting.
Where the Company is required to publish such a statement on its website, it may not require the members making the request to pay any expenses incurred by the Company in complying with the request, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors no later than the time the statement is made available on the Companys website, and the statement may be dealt with as part of the business of the meeting.
The request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form see note 19 below, either set out the statement in full, or if supporting a statement sent by another member, clearly identify the statement which is being supported, must be authenticated by the person or persons making it see note 19 below, and be received by the Company at least one week before the meeting.
In order to be able to exercise the members right to require circulation of a resolution to be proposed at the meeting see note 15 : a matter of business to be dealt with at the meeting see note 16 or the Company to publish audit concerns see note 17, the relevant request must be made by a member or members having a right to vote at the meeting and holding at least 5% of total voting rights of the Company, or at least 100 members having a right to vote at the meeting and holding, on average, at least 100 of paid up share capital.
For information on voting rights, including the total number of voting rights, see note 12 above and the website referred to in note 21.
Where a member or members wishes to request the Company to circulate a resolution to be proposed at the meeting see note 15, include a matter of business to be dealt with at the meeting see note 16 or publish audit concerns see note 17 such request must be made in accordance with one of the following ways: a a hard copy request which is signed by you, which states your full name and address and is sent to Rachel Tongue, Games Workshop Group PLC, Willow Road, Lenton, Nottingham NG7 2WS: or b a request which states your full name and address, and is sent to rachel.
Please state AGM in the subject line of the e-mail.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 the Company must answer any question you ask relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting unless answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question or it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Information regarding the meeting, including the information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from http: investor.
The following documents will be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting: a copies of the service contracts of executive directors of the Company and b copies of the service agreements of the independent directors of the Company.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual on the Euroclear website www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited's EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must in order to be valid be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy proxy form, a shareholder can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by visiting www.
Shareholders will need their voting ID, task ID and shareholder reference number this is the series of numbers printed under their name on the proxy form.
Alternatively, if a shareholder has already registered with Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, they can submit a proxy form at www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
To be valid, your proxy appointment s and instructions should reach Equiniti Limited no later than 48 hours before the time fixed to hold the meeting.
Any electronic communication sent by a shareholder to the Company or the registrar that is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Explanatory notes to the notice of annual general meeting Resolution 1 Financial statements This is a standard resolution common to all annual general meetings.
Resolutions 2 to 7 Election and re-election of directors The following directors will stand for election re-election in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Companys articles of association: K D Rountree R F Tongue N J Donaldson C J Myatt E ODonnell J R A Brewis Each of the above directors has indicated their willingness to offer themselves for election re-election.
The board, having considered the mix of skills, knowledge and experience of the directors confirms that each director continues to perform their duties effectively, showing integrity and high ethical standards whilst maintaining sound, independent judgement in respect of all decisions taken at board level.
Biographical details for each of the directors can be found on page 13 and 14 of the 2018 annual report.
67 Games Workshop Group PLC Resolutions 8 and 9 Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The Company is required to appoint an auditor at each meeting at which financial statements are presented and  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions 8 and 9, subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Company, re-appoints  LLP as auditors of the Company and authorises the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Resolutions 10 to 12 Directors remuneration Shareholders will be requested to approve the directors remuneration report excluding the directors remuneration policy for the financial year ended 3 June 2018 and the amended remuneration policy as detailed on pages 23 to 27 of the 2018 annual report.
In addition, the approval of the payment of a one off bonus payable to the executive directors in relation to performance in 2017 18.
Resolution 13 Directors power to allot relevant securities Generally, the directors may only allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company if they have been authorised to do so by shareholders.
In line with guidance issued by the Investment Association, if passed, resolution 13 will authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, ordinary shares in the Company in connection with a rights issue only up to an aggregate nominal amount of 533,780 as reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of any shares allotted or rights granted under resolution 14.
This amount before any reduction represents approximately 33% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 30 July 2018, being the last practicable date before the publication of this document.
The directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards the use of this authority, including as to the requirement for directors to stand for re-election.
If given, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting or 15 months from the passing of the resolution whichever is earlier.
It is the directors intention to renew the allotment authority each year.
The directors have no current intention to exercise either of the authorities sought under resolution 13.
However, the directors consider that it is in the best interests of the Company to have the authorities available so that they have the maximum flexibility permitted by institutional shareholder guidelines to allot shares or grant rights without the need for a general meeting should they determine that it is appropriate to do so to respond to market developments or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.
Resolution 14 Disapplication of pre-emption rights on equity issues for cash Resolution 14, if passed, would enable the directors to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in limited circumstances.
It is proposed to authorise the directors to issue shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 80,875 which represents approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital as at 30 July 2018, without having to first offer them to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
In addition, in accordance with normal practice, the resolution would enable the board to deal with overseas shareholders and fractional entitlements as it thinks fit in the context of any rights issue or open offer.
It is the directors intention to renew this authority each year.
There are no present plans to exercise this authority.
Resolution 15 - Market purchase of own shares A company may only purchase its own shares by either an off-market purchase, in pursuance of a contract approved in advance in accordance with section 694 of the Act or by a market purchase, authorised in accordance with section 701 of the Act.
A market purchase is one made through a recognised investment exchange.
Although the Act only requires an ordinary resolution, LR 12.4.
7 of the Listing Rules requires the resolution to be passed as a special resolution the ABI also recommend that the resolution should be passed as a special resolution.
This resolution 15 authorises market purchases of the Companys own shares to be made but only within the limitations specified.
In accordance with Investment Association guidelines the maximum number of shares purchased under this authority must not exceed 3,235,031 ordinary shares.
The resolution also states the maximum price which may be paid being 5p per ordinary shares and the maximum price being the higher of: i an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average market value of an ordinary share in the Company for the five business days prior to the day on which the purchase is made: and ii the value of an ordinary share calculated on the basis of the higher of the price quoted for: a the last independent trade of: and b the highest current independent bid for, any number of the Companys ordinary shares on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
As recommended by the Investment Association the Company renews this authority on an annual basis at each annual general meeting.
The directors have no current intention of exercising this authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares.
The Company will only exercise this authority to make such a purchase in the market if the directors consider it is in the best interests of the shareholders generally to do so.
The Company is permitted to hold shares it has purchased in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them.
Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy options exercised under any of the Companys share schemes.
Whilst held in treasury, the shares are not entitled to receive any dividend or dividend equivalent apart from any issue of bonus shares and have no voting rights.
The directors believe it is appropriate for the Company to have the option to hold its own shares in treasury if, at a future date, the directors exercise this authority.
The directors will have regard to investor group guidelines which may be in force at the time of any such purchase, holding or re-sale of shares held in treasury.
If given, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting or 15 months after the passing of the resolution whichever is earlier.
