76 Galliford Try plc Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 50 financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and 51, confirms that to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for t he Parent Company financial statements, which have been prepared each financial year.
Under company law the directors have prepared the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the the parent Company: EU.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial t he Group financial statements, which have been prepared in statements, unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of the of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and profit or loss of the Group and Parent Company for that period.
t he Strategic Report contained in pages 1 to 49 includes a fair review of In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to: the development and performance of the business and the position of s elect suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the Group and Parent Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
m ake judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: In the case of each director in office at the date the Directors report is approved: s tate whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained s o far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of in the financial statements: and which the Group and Companys auditors are unaware: and p repare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is t hey have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information continue in business.
and to establish that the group and companys auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Parent Companys For and on behalf of the Board transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Peter Truscott financial position of the Group and parent Company and enable them to Chief Executive ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 12 September 2018 financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Parent Forward-looking statements Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Forward-looking statements have been made by the directors in good detection of fraud and other irregularities.
faith using information up until the date on which they approved this Annual Report.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the caution due to uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
Group and parent Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the The Groups businesses are generally not affected by seasonality.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and parent Companys performance, position, business model and strategy.
