NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Games Workshop Group PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group designs and manufactures miniature figures and games and distributes these through its own network of retail stores, independent retailers and online via the global web stores.
The Group has manufacturing activities in the UK and sells mainly in the UK, Continental Europe, North America, Australia, New Zealand and Asia.
The Company is a public listed company, incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Willow Road, Lenton, Nottingham, NG7 2WS, United Kingdom.
The Companys ordinary share capital is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation These financial statements are prepared under the going concern basis and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRS Interpretations Committee IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those companies reporting under IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up for the 53 weeks ended 3 June 2018 and the 52 weeks ended 28 May 2017.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group.
The financial statements of all subsidiaries are prepared to the same reporting date as the parent Company with the exception of the financial statements of Games Workshop Good Hobby Shanghai Commercial Co. Ltd which are prepared to 31 December.
The management accounts of Games Workshop Good Hobby Shanghai Commercial Co. Ltd, prepared to 3 June 2018 and 28 May 2017, have been used for consolidation purposes.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or when an indicator of impairment arises, and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Provision is made for any impairment by comparing the value in use to the net carrying value.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 May 1998 was written off to reserves in accordance with the accounting standard then in force.
As permitted by the current accounting standard, the goodwill previously written off to reserves has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
Other intangible assets Development costs Costs incurred in respect of product design and development activities are recognised as intangible assets when they meet the criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets and are wholly attributable to specific projects.
Product development costs recognised as intangible assets are amortised on a reducing balance basis with rates ranging from 50% to 80% to match the expenditure incurred to the expected revenue generated from the subsequent product release.
However, there are some design costs which do not meet the recognition criteria and are therefore not capitalised, and are shown in note 8.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences and related development expenditure are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when they meet the criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Other development expenditure that does not meet these criteria is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
The principal annual amortisation rates are: % of cost Core business systems computer software 15-33 Web store computer software 20 Other computer software 33-50 43 Games Workshop Group PLC
