NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 12.
Goodwill 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 3 June 2018 28 May 2017 Group 000 000 Cost At beginning of period 2,412 2,405 Exchange differences - 7 At end of period 2,412 2,412 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of period 979 972 Exchange differences - 7 At end of period 979 979 Net book value at beginning of period and end of period 1,433 1,433 The Company had no goodwill at either period end.
Impairment tests for goodwill The goodwill arose on the acquisition of TJA Tooling Limited, the acquisition of Triple K Plastic Injection Moulding Limited and the purchase by EURL Games Workshop of the lease associated to Heroic Diffusion SARL, which under IFRS amounted to the purchase of a business.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets the Group completed a review of the carrying value of goodwill as at each period end.
The impairment review was performed to ensure that the carrying value of the Groups assets are stated at no more than their recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The key assumptions for the recoverable amount of the goodwill are the long term growth rate and the discount rate.
The long term growth rate used is purely for the impairment testing of goodwill under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and does not reflect the long term planning assumptions used by the Group for any other assessments.
In determining the value in use, the calculations use cash flow projections for a period no greater than three years based on plans approved by management and, for the Groups cash-generating unit concerned, assumes a long term growth rate no higher than 2% 2017: 2%.
The estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of the assets are calculated using a pre-tax discount rate of 1.65% 2017: 1.72%.
Management reviewed the planned sales growth and gross margin on the investment in future product releases and initiatives currently being undertaken, to deliver the expected future performance.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs for impairment testing.
All of the current goodwill arises in the product and supply segment.
Sensitivity analysis has not been disclosed in these financial statements since management consider that there is no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying value of goodwill to fall below its recoverable amount.
