NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Games Workshop Group PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group designs and manufactures miniature figures and games and distributes these through its own network of retail stores, independent retailers and online via the global web stores.
The Group has manufacturing activities in the UK and sells mainly in the UK, Continental Europe, North America, Australia, New Zealand and Asia.
The Company is a public listed company, incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Willow Road, Lenton, Nottingham, NG7 2WS, United Kingdom.
The Companys ordinary share capital is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation These financial statements are prepared under the going concern basis and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRS Interpretations Committee IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those companies reporting under IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up for the 53 weeks ended 3 June 2018 and the 52 weeks ended 28 May 2017.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group.
The financial statements of all subsidiaries are prepared to the same reporting date as the parent Company with the exception of the financial statements of Games Workshop Good Hobby Shanghai Commercial Co. Ltd which are prepared to 31 December.
The management accounts of Games Workshop Good Hobby Shanghai Commercial Co. Ltd, prepared to 3 June 2018 and 28 May 2017, have been used for consolidation purposes.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or when an indicator of impairment arises, and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Provision is made for any impairment by comparing the value in use to the net carrying value.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 May 1998 was written off to reserves in accordance with the accounting standard then in force.
As permitted by the current accounting standard, the goodwill previously written off to reserves has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
Other intangible assets Development costs Costs incurred in respect of product design and development activities are recognised as intangible assets when they meet the criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets and are wholly attributable to specific projects.
Product development costs recognised as intangible assets are amortised on a reducing balance basis with rates ranging from 50% to 80% to match the expenditure incurred to the expected revenue generated from the subsequent product release.
However, there are some design costs which do not meet the recognition criteria and are therefore not capitalised, and are shown in note 8.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences and related development expenditure are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when they meet the criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Other development expenditure that does not meet these criteria is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
The principal annual amortisation rates are: % of cost Core business systems computer software 15-33 Web store computer software 20 Other computer software 33-50 43 Games Workshop Group PLC NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned to write down to the assets residual value and commences from the date the asset is available for use.
The principal annual depreciation rates are: Straight line % Reducing balance % of cost of net book value Freehold buildings 2-4 - Plant and equipment and vehicles 15-33 - Fixtures and fittings 20-25 - Moulding tools product specific - 65 Moulding tools non-product specific 25 - Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the useful economic life of the asset or the period of the lease.
These assets are included within fixtures and fittings.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Impairment of assets Assets are tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped together at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value, which is typically the original invoice amount, and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Leases Operating leases Leases in which a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The Groups commitment in respect of its retail stores is included within this category.
Payments in respect of operating leases and any benefits received as an incentive to sign a lease, are charged or credited to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the entire lease term.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using a standard costing method taking into account variances.
In respect of finished goods, cost includes raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads based on a normal level of production.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Where necessary provisions are made for obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories.
Foreign currency translation The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Monetary assets and liabilities expressed in currencies that are not the functional currency are translated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The financial statements of overseas subsidiary companies prepared in functional currencies other than sterling are translated into sterling as follows: - Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: - Income and expenses are translated at the average rate for the period: - All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise deposits with banks and bank and cash balances, net of overdrafts where there is a legally enforceable right of offset.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Other employee benefits Pension costs The Group operates defined contribution schemes and a group personal pension plan.
Pension contributions are charged to the income statement as they accrue.
There are no further obligations to the Group once payment has been made.
Bonus and incentive plans The costs of annual bonus schemes are charged to the income statement as they accrue.
Long service benefits The Group operates a long service incentive scheme under which employees receive a one off additional holiday entitlement of two weeks when they reach 10 years of employment 10 Year Veterans.
The costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment based on expected staff retention rates and the anticipated future employment costs discounted to present value.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Other employee benefits continued Share-based payment The Group operates a number of equity-settled employee sharesave schemes.
The fair value of the employee services received under such schemes is recognised as an expense in the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period.
Investments Shares and loans in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Revenue Revenue, which excludes value added tax and sales between group companies, represents the invoiced value of goods supplied net of trade discounts for sales to independent retailers.
Revenue is recognised on dispatch of goods to the customer for sales via the global web store and for sales to independent retailers.
This represents when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have transferred to the customer.
For revenue earned through the Groups retail stores and for digital products, revenue is recognised at the point of sale.
Revenue for magazine subscriptions is recognised on a straight line basis over the subscription period.
Revenue on goods sold to customers on a sale or return basis which includes book sales is recognised after making full provision for the level of expected returns, based on past experience.
The level of returns is reviewed on a regular basis and the provision is amended accordingly.
Revenue on a sale or return basis represents no more than 3% of consolidated revenue 2017: no more than 3%.
Royalty income Royalty income is recognised in the income statement when it can be reliably measured by reference to the underlying licensee performance, after allowing for expected returns and price protection claims, as notified to the Group by the licensee and following validation of the amounts receivable by the Group.
Cash received as guarantees and advances are deferred on balance sheet whilst it is considered probable that future royalty earnings will at least equal the amounts received.
Such amounts are recognised in the income statement at the point at which they are earned as royalties.
In the event that it is no longer considered probable that future royalty earnings will at least equal the guarantees and advances received, the guarantee and advance payments are taken to the income statement on a straight line basis over the remaining term of the licence agreement.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the executive directors.
Taxation The charge for current tax is based on the results for the period as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Dividends Dividend distributions are recognised in the financial statements in the period in which they are declared.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Assets and Contingent Liabilities.
Provisions are made for committed costs outstanding under onerous or vacant property leases and the estimated liability is discounted to its present value.
Provisions are made for property dilapidations where a legal obligation exists and when the decision has been made to exit a property, or where the end of the lease commitment is imminent and a reliable estimate of the exit liability can be made.
The estimated employee benefit liability arising from the 10 Year Veterans incentive scheme is classified within provisions.
Amounts relating to employees who reach 10 years service in more than one year are classified as non-current.
Provisions are made for redundancy costs once the employees affected have a valid expectation that their roles will become redundant.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Financial instruments All financial assets are classified as 'loans and receivables' and financial liabilities as 'other financial liabilities' measured at amortised cost in accordance with IAS 39.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition.
