170 GLOSSARY AGM Annual General Meeting.
GMS ABSs Genetic Management System, which creates a genetic solution tailored to each individual dairy producer to Artificial insemination AI Using semen collected from obtain improved herd genetics.
a bull or boar to impregnate a cow or sow when in estrus.
Artificial insemination allows a genetically superior male to be Grandparent The relationship of a breeding pig to the used to mate with many more females than would be possible generation of terminal market pigs.
A grandparent produces with natural mating.
parents, who in turn produce the commercial generation of terminal pigs.
Group Genus plc and its subsidiary companies.
Biosecurity The precautions taken to reduce the chance of transmitting disease agents from one livestock operation GSS Genus Sexed Semen.
In vitro fertilisation IVF The fertilisation of an oocyte Boar A male pig.
with semen outside an animal in a laboratory for transfer into a surrogate.
BRD Bovine Respiratory Disease, a complex, bacterial and viral infection that causes lung disease in cattle particularly Index Indices A formula incorporating economically calves and is often fatal.
important traits for ranking the genetic potential of animals as parents of the next generation.
Integrated pork producer Producers of pork typically CRISPR-Cas 9 Technology which accurately targets and involved in raising animals to slaughter weight all the way cutsDNA to produce precise and controllable changes to through to packaged and or branded pork products.
IntelliGen The technology platform used to process sexed CSR Corporate Social Responsibility.
bovine semen for ABS and third-party customers and commercialised by ABS globally as Sexcel.
DSBP Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
IPR Inter Partes Review before the US Patent and Farrow When a sow gives birth to piglets.
GELT Genus Executive Leadership Team.
Gender skew The ability to influence the proportion of JV Joint venture.
offspring being of a particular sex.
Line Multiple animals that have been mated together in a Genetic gain The change of the genetic make up of a closed breeding population.
Pure lines can have their origins in particular animal population in response to having selected one founding breed or in several breeds.
parents that excelled genetically for important traits.
Market pig equivalents MPE Refers to a standardised Genetic lag The amount of time required to disseminate measure of our customers production of slaughter animals genetic gain from a nucleus herd to the commercial customer.
that contain our genetics with genes from each of the sow and boar counting for half of the animal.
Genetic nucleus A specialised pig herd, where Genus PIC keeps its pure lines.
Pigs are genetically tested at the nucleus Multiplier A producer whose farm contains grandparent to select the best animals to produce the next generation.
The farm crosses together two lines of grandparents, multiplying the number of genetically improved parents that Genomic bull A bull which has been assessed through are available for sale.
This typically refers to bulls which have not been progeny-tested.
NuEra The ABS beef breeding programme and index designed to drive the customers genetic improvement and Genomically tested An animal that has been DNA profiled.
deliver total system profitability for the beef supply chain.
Genomics The study of the genome, which is the DNA PQA Pork Quality Assurance.
sequence of an animals chromosomes.
Progeny tested Elite animals whose genetic value as a Gilt A young female pig, which has not yet given birth.
parent has been tested and validated through the performance of their offspring.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 171 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON PRRSv Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus.
PTAB Patent Trail and Appeal Board before the US Patent and Trademarks Office.
RMS ABSs Reproductive Management System, which is a systematic approach to maximising pregnancy production and its contribution to herd profitability.
RWD ABSs Real World Data System of observed performance data from many dairy herds.
Sexcel The ABS brand of sexed bovine genetics produced using IntelliGen.
Sire The male parent of an animal.
Sire line The male line selected for traits desirable for themarket.
Sow A female pig which has given birth at least once.
Straw A narrow tube used to package frozen bull semen.
Stud Locations where bulls or boars are housed and their semen collected, evaluated, diluted into multiple doses straws and packaged, ready for shipping to farms.
Terminal boars The male pig that is used to mate with a parent female to produce a terminal pig.
Trait A measurable characteristic that may be a target for genetic selection.
TransitionRight Genus ABSs patent-pending genetic selection tool to help prevent multiple post calving metabolic disorders that occur during transition.
Unit A straw of frozen bull semen or tube bag of fresh boar semen sold to a customer.
