220 GSK Annual Report 2018 Notes to the company balance sheet UK GAAP including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework A Presentation of the financial statements B Accounting policies Description of business Foreign currency transactions GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, ruling on the date of transaction.
Foreign currency assets and development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance products, including vaccines, over-the-counter OTC medicines sheet date.
Dividends paid and received Preparation of financial statements Dividends paid and received are included in the financial statements The financial statements, which are prepared using the historical in the period in which the related dividends are actually paid or cost convention as modified to include the revaluation of certain received.
financial instruments and on a going concern basis, are prepared Expenditure in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received Disclosure Framework and with UK accounting presentation and the when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is Companies Act 2006 as at 31 December 2018, with comparative made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a figures as at 31 December 2017. past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the estimated.
income statement of the company is not presented in this Annual Report.
Investments in subsidiary companies Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any The company is included in the Group financial statements of provision for impairment and also adjusted for movements in GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have Impairment of investments been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment in accordance with FRS 101: when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments - Disclosures the income statement in the year concerned.
Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement Share-based payments The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements the companys shares, represents additional capital contributions comparative information requirements in respect of by the company in its subsidiaries.
An additional investment in paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders Paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 38 A, 38 B to D, 40 A to D, equity.
The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of 111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grants vesting period.
IAS 7, Statement of cash ows Taxation Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying in accounting estimates and errors tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, Related party disclosures and the further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party transactions Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on entered into between two or more members of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets a Group.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are Accounting convention and standards considered recoverable against future taxable profits.
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected standards.
to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are expected to be realised or settled.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets Accounting principles and policies are not discounted.
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make Financial guarantees estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and amortised liabilities at the date of the balance sheet.
Actual amounts could over the life of the guarantee.
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the companys accounting policies approved by the Board and described in Note B.
These policies have been consistently applied, unless otherwise stated.
