146 GSK Annual Report 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting principles and policies Where the consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling Consolidation interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets, liabilities and The consolidated financial statements include: contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill.
The costs of acquisition are charged to the income statement in the the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the period in which they are incurred.
company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries the Groups share of the results and net assets of associates and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and and joint ventures associates.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation the Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses acquired.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net assets The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the nonEntities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the nonactivities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through controlling interests share of the net assets of the subsidiary, on a control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for case-by-case basis.
Changes in the Groups ownership percentage as subsidiaries.
of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over, and Foreign currency translation rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities are accounted for as joint ventures.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency control over an arrangement, but has rights to specified assets of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date of and obligations for specified liabilities of the arrangement, the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation.
Where the Group retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling has the ability to exercise significant influence over entities, they are at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are included in the accounted for as associates.
The results and assets and liabilities of income statement.
associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated Groups rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The operations are included in the consolidated financial statements in results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint accordance with those rights and obligations.
ventures are translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the Group acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated from profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and the date control ceases.
joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated and arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries until the Groups net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate products are sold to customers outside the Group.
The relevant component of equity.
proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, joint When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash operations and associates is also deferred until the products are flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which sold to third parties.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, recorded directly in equity.
Deferred tax relief on unrealised intraadjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated recoverable.
Business combinations Revenue applicable from 1 January 2018 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition The Group receives revenue for supply of goods to external accounting method.
Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent customers against orders received.
The majority of contracts that liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
GSK enters into relate to sales orders containing single performance The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and includes obligations for the delivery of pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer the fair value of any contingent consideration.
The average duration of a sales order is less The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities are re-assessed than 12 months.
at each balance sheet date with changes recognised in the income Product revenue is recognised when control of the goods is passed statement.
Payments of contingent consideration reduce the balance to the customer.
The point at which control passes is determined by sheet liability and as a result are not recorded in the income statement.
each customer arrangement, but generally occurs on delivery to the The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of the fair customer.
value of the contingent consideration on acquisition is reported within Product revenue represents net invoice value including fixed and investing activities in the cash flow statement and the part of each variable consideration.
Variable consideration arises on the sale of payment relating to the increase in the liability since the acquisition goods as a result of discounts and allowances given and accruals for date is reported within operating cash flows.
estimated future returns and rebates.
Revenue is not recognised in full until it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur.
147 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2.
Accounting principles and policies continued The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates and Legal and other disputes returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources is projected market conditions.
Once the uncertainty associated with considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely the returns and rebates is resolved, revenue is adjusted accordingly.
In addition, provision is made for legal or other expenses GSK enters into development and marketing collaborations and arising from claims received or other disputes.
In respect of product out-licences of the Groups compounds or products to other parties.
liability claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history These contracts give rise to fixed and variable consideration from of claims made and settlements to enable management to make a upfront payments, development milestones, sales-based milestones reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
In certain cases, an incurred but not reported IBNR actuarial technique is used to determine this estimate.
Income dependent on the achievement of a development milestone is recognised when it is highly probable that a significant reversal in The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur, which which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected is usually when the related event occurs.
Sales-based milestone financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the income is recognised when it is highly probable that the sales proceedings.
In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be Sales-based royalties on a licence of intellectual property are not included but no provision would be made.
Costs associated with recognised until the relevant product sale occurs.
claims made by the Group against third parties are charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
If the time between the recognition of revenue and payment from the customer is expected to be more than one year and the impact Pensions and other post-employment benefits is material, the amount of consideration is discounted using appropriate discount rates.
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the Expenditure employees services, consistent with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of estimated Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of highwhen supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is quality corporate bonds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a fair value at the balance sheet date.
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a estimated.
Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over the achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred.
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income employees services, in accordance with the advice of qualified statement as incurred.
Shipment costs on inter-company transfers actuaries.
are charged to cost of sales: distribution costs on sales to customers are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where income in the year in which they arise.
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected to the income statement as incurred.
Employee share plans Research and development Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under Research and development expenditure is charged to the income share option and share award schemes.
statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and charged are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
market and approval is considered highly probable.
Property, plant and equipment used for research and development is capitalised The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company and depreciated in accordance with the Groups policy.
shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees exercise their options or awards.
Costs of running the ESOP Trusts Environmental expenditure are charged to the income statement.
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves.
A transfer is made between Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting periods of the from past or current operations and from which no current or future related share options or awards to reflect the ultimate proceeds benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement.
The Group receivable from employees on exercise.
recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably estimated.
This liability includes the Groups portion of the total costs and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties costs when it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation.
Recoveries of reimbursements are recorded as assets when virtually certain.
148 GSK Annual Report 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting principles and policies continued Contingent milestone payments are recognised at the point that Property, plant and equipment the contingent event becomes probable.
Any development costs Property, plant and equipment PP&E is stated at the cost of incurred by the Group and associated with acquired licences, purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and patents, know-how or marketing rights are written off to the income impairment.
Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of statement when incurred, unless the criteria for recognition of qualifying assets in construction.
an internally generated intangible asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major market and approval Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value is considered highly probable.
of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over the expected useful life.
Residual values and lives are reviewed, and Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of where appropriate adjusted annually.
The normal expected useful businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a value lives of the major categories of PP&E are: which is substantial and long term and where the brands either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately from the rest Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years of the businesses acquired.
Brands are amortised over their Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where it is considered Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years that the useful economic life is indefinite.
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the business system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
ERP systems software is amortised over seven to ten years and other computer software over three to five years.
Leases Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the Impairment of non-current assets benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The assets are impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger cash included in PP&E or computer software and the capital elements of generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets might the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite leases.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term, if shorter.
are tested for impairment annually.
Any provision for impairment is The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental costs are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over Impairments of goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses on other the lease term.
non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and only to the Goodwill extent that the revised recoverable amounts do not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of depreciation or Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments.
Goodwill is deemed amortisation, had no impairments been recognised.
to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at least annually.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entitys assets, operations liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income consolidated balance sheet at the Groups share of their net assets statement.
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits Other intangible assets or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
The Group recognises its rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation expenses of joint operations.
Expected credit losses are recognised in the income statement on Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately financial assets measured at amortised cost and at fair value through acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are other comprehensive income apart from equity investments.
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding 20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time they are available Inventories for use.
The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of charge take into account patent lives, where applicable, as well as cost including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and the value obtained from periods of non-exclusivity.
Asset lives are related production overheads and net realisable value.
Cost is reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted, annually.
generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Pre-launch inventory is held as an asset when there is a high probability of regulatory approval for the product.
Before that point a provision is made against the carrying value to its recoverable amount: the provision is then reversed at the point when a high probability of regulatory approval is determined.
149 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2.
Accounting principles and policies continued Borrowings Financial instruments applicable from 1 January 2018 All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds Financial assets received, net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently Financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value through carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds, other comprehensive income FVTOCI or fair value through profit net of transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being or loss FVTPL.
The measurement basis is determined by reference recognised as a charge to the income statement over the period of to both the business model for managing the financial asset and the relevant borrowing.
the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
For Derivative financial instruments financial assets other than trade receivables a 12-month expected Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to credit loss ECL allowance is recorded on initial recognition.
The principal derivative instruments used by GSK are is subsequent evidence of a significant increase in the credit risk of foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange an asset, the allowance is increased to reflect the full lifetime ECL.
The Group does not hold or issue If there is no realistic prospect of recovery, the asset is written off.
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Other investments Derivative financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives Other investments comprise equity investments and investments embedded in host contracts which have been separated from the in limited life funds.
The Group has elected to designate equity host contract, are classified as held-for-trading and are measured at investments as measured at FVTOCI.
They are initially recorded at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that fair value plus transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in reporting dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses are the income statement.
recognised in other comprehensive income.
Hedge accounting On disposal of the equity investment, gains and losses that have Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are classified on been deferred in other comprehensive Income are transferred directly inception as cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value to retained earnings.
Investments in limited life funds are measured at hedges.
They are initially recorded at fair value and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow losses are recognised in the income statement.
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective.
Ineffective portions are recognised in Dividends on equity investments and distributions from funds are profit or loss immediately.
Amounts deferred in other comprehensive recognised in the income statement when the Groups right to income are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged receive payment is established.
item affects profit or loss.
Purchases and sales of Other investments are accounted for on Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash the trade date.
Trade receivables Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value Trade receivables are measured in accordance with the business hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the model under which each portfolio of trade receivables is held.
The changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Group has portfolios in each of the three business models under IFRS 9: to collect the contractual cash flows measured at amortised cost, Taxation to sell the contractual cash flows measured at FVTPL, and both to collect and to sell the contractual cash flows measured at FVTOCI.
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying Trade receivables measured at amortised cost are carried at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the original invoice amount less allowances for expected credit losses.
Expected credit losses are calculated in accordance with the simplified Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising approach permitted by IFRS 9, using a provision matrix applying between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying lifetime historical credit loss experience to the trade receivables.
The amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are expected credit loss rate varies depending on whether and the extent recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits to which settlement of the trade receivables is overdue and it is also will be available against which the temporary differences can be adjusted as appropriate to reflect current economic conditions and utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising estimates of future conditions.
For the purpose of determining credit on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except loss rates, customers are classified into groupings that have similar where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be loss patterns.
The key drivers of the loss rate are the nature of the controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not business unit and the location and type of customer.
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the When a trade receivable is determined to have no reasonable balance sheet date.
expectation of recovery it is written off, firstly against any expected credit loss allowance available and then to the income statement.
Where an uncertain tax position is identified, management will make a judgement as to what the probable outcome will be.
Where it is Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or written assessed that an economic outflow is probable to arise a provision off are credited to the income statement.
Long-term receivables are is made for the best estimate of the liability.
In estimating any such discounted where the effect is material.
liability GSK applies a risk-based approach which takes into account, Cash and cash equivalents as appropriate, the probability that the Group would be able to obtain Cash held in deposit accounts is measured at amortised cost.
compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
These Investments in money market funds are held at fair value through estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each profit or loss.
dispute and relevant external advice.
150 GSK Annual Report 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting principles and policies continued Trade receivables Discounting Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any Where the time value of money is material, balances are discounted provisions for doubtful debts.
Provisions are made where there is to current values using appropriate discount rates.
The unwinding of evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, the discounts is recorded in finance income and finance expense.
previous experience and general economic conditions.
When a trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly Revenue applicable up to 31 December 2017 against any provision available and then to the income statement.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are services are supplied or made available to external customers against credited to the income statement.
Long-term receivables are orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the customer, discounted where the effect is material.
reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the earnings process is Borrowings regarded as being complete.
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds received, net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds, discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated future net of transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being rebates and returns.
The methodology and assumptions used to recognised as a charge to the income statement over the period of estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly the relevant borrowing.
in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected market conditions.
Market conditions are Derivative financial instruments and hedging evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to research data and internally generated information.
Value added tax market risks.
The principal derivative instruments used by GSK are and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and options.
The Group does not hold or issue Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as co-promotion income within turnover.
The nature of co-promotion Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading and activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
In are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Derivatives designated addition, initial or event-based milestone income excluding royalty as hedging instruments are classified on inception as cash flow income arising on development or marketing collaborations of the hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
Groups compounds or products with other parties is recognised Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow in turnover.
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance that the hedges are effective.
Ineffective portions are recognised in with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
Amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged Financial instruments applicable up to 31 December 2017 item affects profit or loss.
Available-for-sale investments Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash Liquid investments and other investments are classified as availableflow hedges.
for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
investments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not value of an equity investment reduce the carrying amount of the asset qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the directly and are charged to the income statement.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
Dividends on equity investments are recognised in the income statement when the Groups right to receive payment is established.
Equity investments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year.
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale investments are accounted for on settlement date.
