215 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 45.
Legal proceedings The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative Dolutegravir Tivicay Triumeq proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, In September and October 2017, ViiV Healthcare received tax, anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related patent challenge letters under the Hatch-Waxman Act from Cipla, private litigation.
The most significant of these matters, other than Dr. Reddys Labs and Apotex for Triumeq and Tivicay, and from tax matters, are described below.
The Group makes provision for Lupin and Mylan for Triumeq and from Sandoz for Tivicay.
ViiV these proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, Healthcare lists two patents for dolutegravir, the active ingredient Accounting principles and policies and Note 29, Other provisions.
in Tivicay and one of the active ingredients in Triumeq, in the FDA Orange Book.
One patent, covering the molecule dolutegravir, The Group may become involved in significant legal proceedings expires on 5 October 2027.
A second patent, claiming a certain in respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of crystal forms of dolutegravir, expires on 8 December 2029.
All the the expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate letters challenged only the patent for the crystal form.
Some generic resolution of the proceedings.
In these cases, appropriate companies alleged that the crystal form patent is not valid.
Others disclosures about such cases would be included in this note, challenged validity and asserted that their proposed product would but no provision would be made for the cases.
not infringe the crystal form patent.
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, On 7 February 2017, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement suits other than those for which a provision has been made, the Group against all the generic companies in the US District Court for the is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect District of Delaware.
Additionally, ViiV Healthcare also filed suit at this stage.
The Group does not believe that information about the against certain of the generic companies in the US District Court for amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful the District of New Jersey, and the US District Court for the District with respect to those legal proceedings.
This is due to a number of of West Virginia.
The case against Mylan is now proceeding in the factors, including, but not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the Northern District of West Virginia.
The court has set the case against entitlement of parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories Mylan for trial in June 2020.
The cases against the other defendants of liability, damages and governing law.
are proceeding in the District of Delaware.
The District of Delaware Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are has not yet set a trial date for the cases.
charged to selling, general and administration costs.
Provisions On 7 February 2018, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice, litigation against Gilead Sciences Inc. Gilead over bictegravir in where an outow of resources is considered probable and a the US District Court for the District of Delaware U. S. Patent No.
reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute.
8,129,385 and the Canadian Federal Court Canadian patent No.
For certain product liability claims, the Group will make a provision 2,606,282.
ViiV Healthcare alleges that Gileads triple combination where there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements HIV drug containing the HIV integrase inhibitor bictegravir infringes to enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision ViiV Healthcares patent covering dolutegravir and other compounds required to cover unasserted claims.
At 31 December 2018, the that include dolutegravirs unique chemical scaffold.
In both the US Groups aggregate provision for legal and other disputes not and Canada, ViiV Healthcare seeks financial redress rather than including tax matters described in Note 14, Taxation was 219 injunctive relief.
The District of Delaware case is set for trial in million.
However, this provision is offset by a related 37 million September 2020.
The Canadian court has not set a trial date for receivable which means the net exposure to the Group is 182 the Canadian action.
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation Kivexa proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
In 2018, ViiV Healthcare reached confidential agreements with each of DOC Generici, Farmoz and Kyowa Pharmaceuticals to settle The Groups position could change over time, and, therefore, there various challenges to the validity of the Supplementary Protection can be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome Certificate SPC for the patent covering the combination of of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the lamivudine and abacavir for Kivexa and certain counterclaims amount of the provisions reported in the Groups financial brought by ViiV Healthcare for infringement of that SPC.
If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse settlements brought an end to litigation and arbitration proceedings impact on the results of operations of the Group in the reporting between ViiV Healthcare and DOC Generici in Italy, between ViiV period in which the judgements are incurred or the settlements Healthcare and Farmoz in Portugal, and between ViiV Healthcare entered into.
and Kyowa Pharmaceuticals in Japan.
Intellectual property In June 2017, Biogaran commenced proceedings in France seeking Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity and revocation of the French SPC covering Kivexa.
No trial date has enforceability of the Groups patents on various products or been set for this action.
processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those patents.
A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent In Q2 2018, ViiV Healthcare commenced proceedings against protection for the product at issue.
The consequences of any such Sandoz in Switzerland.
Sandoz countered challenging the validity loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that product and of the patent relating to Kivexa.
No trial date has been set for could materially affect future results of operations for the Group.
216 GSK Annual Report 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 45.
Legal proceedings continued Product liability Acts of violence Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development As of February 2019, there were six pending claims or cases of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of concerning allegations that patients who took paroxetine or Paxil products for use by humans following approval by regulatory bodies.
committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts of violence: five claims or cases are in the US and one case is in Canada.
One of the Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines are US cases, Dolin, involving the suicide of a man who allegedly took introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety issues may generic paroxetine manufactured by Mylan, resulted in a $3 million become, or be claimed by some to be, evident.
The Group is verdict for the plaintiff: however, on 22 August 2018 the US Court currently a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits related of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed the jury verdict and to the Groups Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare found in favour of the Group.
Plaintiff has filed a petition for writ of products.
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of certiorari asking the US Supreme Court to review the case.
The the expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this remaining US cases are largely dormant.
category and has included a provision, as appropriate, for the matters below in the provision for legal and other disputes.
Matters In the one pending Canadian action, Carmichael, the Group has filed for which the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, a motion for summary judgement based on the statute of limitations.
Discontinuation Avandia In the UK, a long-pending group action alleges that Seroxat caused The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf severe discontinuation symptoms.
In 2010, the Legal Services of individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use Commission LSC withdrew public funding from hundreds of of Avandia.
Economic loss actions have also been filed seeking claimants, causing termination of most claims.
In 2015, the Legal Aid restitution and penalties under consumer protection and other laws.
Agency formerly the LSC discharged the public funding certificate following a 2013 recommendation of its Special Cases Review As of February 2019, there are seven remaining US cases.
Four are Panel that these cases have poor prospects of success.
personal injury actions subject to a settlement agreement and will be dismissed once the settlement has been finalised.
Two are class However, more recently, Fortitude Law was engaged with the actions, brought by third-party payers asserting claims under the purpose of resurrecting the Seroxat group action, and obtained Racketeer Inuenced and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO and third-party funding for the experts and the 103 remaining claimants.
state consumer protection laws, and are on appeal from summary The Group asked the court to require the third-party funder to judgements granted in favour of the Group.
In the last of the seven, provide security for the litigation costs in the event plaintiffs lose.
the Santa Clara County California Action, summary judgement On 8 December 2017, the High Court ruled in favour of the Group was granted in favour of the Group on all issues except for the on its application for an order that the claimants litigation funder civil penalty claims under Californias False Advertising Act.
give security for costs for a sum in excess of the total funding it had Additionally, there are 13 class actions pending in Canada, but the committed to the case.
The trial of the action is scheduled to Group has reached an agreement, subject to court approval, to commence in April 2019. settle all of them.
Zofran Seroxat Paxil and Paxil CR Plaintiffs allege that their children suffered birth defects as a result The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging that of the mothers ingestion of Zofran and or generic ondansetron for use of Paxil paroxetine has caused a variety of injuries.
Most of pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting.
Plaintiffs assert that the these lawsuits contain one or more of the following allegations: i Group sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant women, failed that use of Paxil during pregnancy caused congenital malformations, to warn of the risks, and illegally marketed Zofran off-label for use persistent pulmonary hypertension or autism: ii that Paxil treatment by pregnant women.
caused patients to commit suicidal or violent acts: and iii that the As of February 2019, the Group is a defendant in 430 personal injury Group failed to warn that patients could experience certain lawsuits.
All but two of the lawsuits are part of a multi-district symptoms on discontinuing Paxil treatment.
litigation proceeding MDL in the US District Court for the District Pregnancy of Massachusetts.
The Group has reached agreements to settle the majority of the In the MDL, the parties are in the process of completing caseUS claims relating to the use of Paxil during pregnancy as of specific discovery and selecting cases for potential trials.
While the February 2019, but 11 lawsuits related to use during pregnancy court recently denied the Groups motion for summary judgment are still pending in various courts in the US.
based on a federal preemption argument, the Group continues to The Singh action in Alberta, Canada, a proposed national class seek the dismissal of individual cases on other grounds as action, seeks to certify a class relating to birth defects generally.
The court, after hearing argument in January 2019, has plaintiffs GSK is also a defendant in four proposed class actions in Canada.
class certification motion under consideration.
There has been no significant activity in these four matters: however, Another Canadian class action, Jensen, alleging claims of Paxil the parties have recently agreed to a schedule for class certification and other SSRI use and autism was filed in Saskatchewan in proceedings in the matter pending in Ontario.
January 2017: however, there has been no activity in the case since the filing.
217 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 45.
Legal proceedings continued Sales and marketing and regulation Average wholesale price The Groups marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical The Attorney General in Illinois filed suit against the Group and a and Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental number of other pharmaceutical companies claiming damages and investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under various restitution due to average wholesale price AWP and or wholesale theories of law.
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate acquisition cost WAC price reporting for pharmaceutical products of the expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this covered by the states Medicaid programmes.
The case alleges that category and has included a provision for such matters in the the Group reported or caused to be reported false AWP and WAC provision for legal and other disputes, except as noted below.
prices, which, in turn, allegedly caused the state Medicaid agency to reimburse providers more money for covered medicines than the Matters for which the Group has made a provision are also noted agency intended.
The state has sought recovery on behalf of itself as in Note 29, Other provisions.
payer and on behalf of in-state patients as consumers.
The case is SFO and SEC DOJ Anti-corruption enquiries ongoing, and no trial date has yet been set as to the Group.
On 27 May 2014, the UK Serious Fraud Office SFO began a Cidra third-party payer litigation formal criminal investigation into the Groups commercial operations On 25 July 2013, a number of major US healthcare insurers filed suit in a number of countries, including China.
The SFO inquiry followed against the Group in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania County Court investigations initiated by Chinas Ministry of Public Security in June of Common Pleas seeking compensation for reimbursements they 2013 the China Investigations, which resulted in a ruling in 2014 made for medicines manufactured at the Groups former Cidra plant that, according to Chinese law, GSK China Investment Co. Ltd. in Puerto Rico.
These insurers claim that the Group knowingly and GSKCI had offered money or property to non-government illegally marketed and sold adulterated drugs manufactured under personnel in order to obtain improper commercial gains and conditions non-compliant with cGMP current good manufacturing GSKCI being found guilty of bribing non-government personnel.
practices and that they, as third-party insurers, were unlawfully On 30 September 2016, the Group reached a global resolution with induced to pay for them.
The suit alleges both US federal and various the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC regarding the state law causes of action.
Discovery is complete, and the Group SECs investigation under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act has filed a motion for summary judgement, which likely will be heard FCPA into the Groups commercial practices in countries outside in spring 2019.
No trial date has yet been set.
of the US, including China.
As part of the resolution, the Group Anti-trust competition agreed to pay a civil penalty of $20 million to the US Government.
Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been The US Department of Justice DOJ confirmed that it had brought against the Group alleging violation of competition or concluded its investigation into the Groups commercial practices anti-trust laws.
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate and would take no action against the Group.
As part of the resolution of the expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this with the SEC, the Group agreed to certain undertakings, including category and has included a provision for such matters in the a period of self-monitoring and reporting.
The Groups obligations provision for legal and other disputes, except as noted below.
under that resolution continued through 30 September 2018 and Matters for which the Group has made a provision are also noted have now concluded.
In the course of its inquiry, the SFO had requested additional UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation information from the Group regarding third-party advisers engaged On 12 February 2016, the UK Competition and Markets by the company in the course of the China Investigations.
The SEC Authority CMA issued a decision fining the Group and two other and DOJ are also investigating these matters following the Groups pharmaceutical companies for infringement of the Competition Act.
reporting of the SFOs inquiries.
The Group is co-operating and The CMA imposed a fine of 37.6 million on the Group, as well as responding to these requests.
On 22 February 2019, the SFO fines totaling 7.4 million against the other companies.
This relates announced that it would be closing its investigation and confirmed to agreements to settle patent disputes between the Group and that it would be taking no further action against the Group.
potential suppliers of generic paroxetine formulations, entered into The SEC and DOJ investigations into these issues continue.
The Group terminated the agreements The Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected at issue in 2004.
The Group believes it has strong grounds for its financial effect of these investigations, and no provisions have appeal of the CMAs finding to the Competition Appeal Tribunal been made for them.
CAT in order to overturn the fine or substantially reduce it.
The appeal concluded in April 2017.
The CAT delivered its initial US Vaccines subpoena judgement on the appeal on 8 March 2018, referring all the principle On 25 February 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the US points at issue to the Court of Justice of the EU for a preliminary Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York requesting ruling.
The matter will then return to the CAT for final judgement.
documents relating to the Groups Vaccines business.
The Group No provision has been made for this matter.
responded to the subpoena and was informed by the government in 2018 that the government would be closing the matter without further action.
