63 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Treasury policies continued In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek Counterparty risk management to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and and cash flows.
These are primarily denominated in US Dollars, investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from Euros and Sterling.
Borrowings can be swapped into other Moodys and Standard and Poors.
Treasurys usage of these limits currencies as required.
is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer CCO who Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies operates independently of Treasury.
Any breach of these limits would that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated be reported to the CFO immediately.
as a hedge against the relevant assets.
Forward contracts in major The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and, currencies are also used to reduce exposure to the Groups when changes in ratings occur, notifies Treasury so that changes investment in overseas Group assets.
The TMG reviews the can be made to investment levels or to authority limits as appropriate.
ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies regularly.
In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are reviewed regularly and a report is presented annually to the TMG for approval.
Critical accounting policies The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients.
In with IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial reduce State and Federal expenditure on prescription drugs.
In statements, Accounting principles and policies.
2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became law.
We participate by providing rebates to states.
Accruals for We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific terms of the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported the relevant regulations or the Patient Protection and Affordable in the financial statements.
Actual amounts and results could differ Care Act from those estimates.
Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt The critical accounting policies relate to the following areas: payment.
These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and Turnover adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience Taxation Note 14 We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced, Legal and other disputes Notes 29 and 45 together with market related information such as stock levels at Intangible asset impairments Note 19 wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
Business combinations Note 38 A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US Pensions and other post-employment benefits Note 28.
Pharmaceuticals business is as follows: Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas 2018 2017 2016 is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, Key accounting Margin revised Margin revised Margin judgements and estimates.
m % m % m % Gross turnover 18,227 100 16,365 100 13,363 100 Turnover Market driven In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest business segments 5,147 28 4,040 25 2,731 21 is US Pharmaceuticals, and the US market has the most complex Government arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
The following mandated and briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in existence in our state programs 4,594 25 3,933 24 3,063 23 US Pharmaceuticals business: Cash discounts 361 2 330 2 261 2 We have arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby Customer returns 98 1 97 1 98 1 the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at reduced Prior year adjustments 98 1 86 1 109 1 prices.
A chargeback represents the difference between the Other prior year items 59 23 25 invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect customers Other items 613 4 460 3 457 3 contractual discounted price.
Accruals for estimating chargebacks Total deductions 10,774 59 8,797 54 6,526 49 are calculated based on the terms of each agreement, historical experience and product growth rates Net turnover 7,453 41 7,568 46 6,837 51 Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and Group Market-driven segments consist primarily of Managed Care and Purchasing Organisations and other direct and indirect customers.
Medicare plans with which we negotiate contract pricing that These arrangements require the customer to achieve certain is honoured via rebates and chargebacks.
Mandated segments performance targets relating to the value of product purchased, consist primarily of Medicaid and Federal Government programmes formulary status or pre-determined market shares relative to which receive government-mandated pricing via rebates and competitors.
The accrual for customer rebates is estimated based chargebacks.
on the specific terms in each agreement, historical experience and product growth rates 64 GSK Annual Report 2018 Group financial review continued Critical accounting policies continued The increased deductions in the market driven segments of the We may become involved in significant legal proceedings, in respect gross turnover to net turnover reconciliation primarily reflected of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected higher rebates and chargebacks on Respiratory products, and financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the on Advair in particular.
During 2018, Advair accounted for 15% proceedings.
In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such of US Pharmaceuticals turnover and approximately 34% of the cases would be included in the Annual Report, but no provision total deduction for rebates and returns, and the Respiratory would be made.
portfolio as a whole accounted for approximately 78% of the This position could change over time and, therefore, there can be total deduction in the year.
Advair continued to suffer pricing no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any pressures in 2018 as we sought to transition our Respiratory legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the amount portfolio to newer products.
of the provisions reported in the Groups financial statements.
The balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with various and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation, as well as are managed on a combined basis.
At 31 December 2018, the investigations of its operations conducted by various governmental total accrual amounted to 4,356 million 2017 2,837 million.
Throughout the year, the General Counsel of A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at the Group, as head of the Groups legal function, and the Senior wholesalers for any abnormal movements.
This process uses Vice President and Head of Global Litigation for the Group, who is gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party responsible for all litigation and government investigations, routinely data sources and information received from key wholesalers.
brief the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the The aim of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level Board of Directors on the significant litigation pending against the from year to year based on the pattern of consumption.
Group and governmental investigations of the Group.
On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory levels at These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December 2018 litigation and government investigations and review matters such were estimated to amount to approximately four weeks of turnover.
as the number of claims notified to us, information on potential This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy of which claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of claims, cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently reliable progress made in settling claims, recent settlement levels and for this purpose.
The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not there Legal and other disputes is sufficient information available for us to be able to make a reliable estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes.
Often, external In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes, counsel assisting us with various litigation matters and investigations the following briefly describes the process by which we determine will also assist in the briefing of the Board and senior management.
the level of provision that is necessary.
Following these discussions, for those matters where it is possible In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, Provisions, to make a reliable estimate of the amount of a provision, if any, that contingent liabilities and contingent assets, we provide for may be required, the level of provision for legal and other disputes is anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is reviewed and adjusted as appropriate.
These matters are discussed considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of further in Note 45 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising from claims against the Group.
Strategic report The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2019 Simon Dingemans Chief Financial Officer 11 March 2019
