144 GSK Annual Report 2018 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Presentation of the financial statements Description of business Implementation of IFRS 9 Financial instruments GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged in the The Group has applied IFRS 9 Financial instruments with effect creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for the of pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the-counter OTC classification and measurement of financial assets and financial medicines and health-related consumer products.
GSKs principal liabilities, impairments for financial assets and general hedge pharmaceutical products include medicines in the following accounting.
therapeutic areas: respiratory, HIV, immuno-inflammation, anti-virals, Details of these new requirements as well as their impact on the central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, Groups consolidated financial statements are described below.
The Group has adopted IFRS 9 retrospectively but with certain permitted exceptions as detailed below.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS Classification and measurement of financial assets The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The date of initial application was 1 January 2018.
The Group has the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and not applied the requirements of IFRS 9 to instruments that were International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related derecognised prior to 1 January 2018 and has not restated prior interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
Any difference between the previous carrying amount and the The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued revised carrying amount at 1 January 2018 has been recognised as by the International Accounting Standards Board.
an adjustment to opening retained earnings at 1 January 2018.
Composition of financial statements All financial assets that are within the scope of IFRS 9 are required to be measured at amortised cost or fair value, with movements through The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, other comprehensive income or the income statement on the basis of the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance GSKs business model for managing the financial assets and the with IFRS accounting presentation.
The financial statements contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets.
comprise: IFRS 9 had the following impact on the Groups assets: Consolidated income statement The Group has elected to recognise movements in the fair value of Consolidated statement of comprehensive income equity investments in other comprehensive income under IFRS 9.
Consolidated balance sheet Investments in equity instruments that were previously classified as available-for-sale financial assets measured at fair value have been Consolidated statement of changes in equity designated as measured at fair value through other comprehensive Consolidated cash flow statement income FVTOCI under IFRS 9.
As a result, fair value movements are now recorded in other comprehensive income along with gains Notes to the financial statements.
or losses on disposal of the investments.
Composition of the Group The Groups investments in limited life funds included in Other A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion of investments that were previously classified as available-for-sale the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net assets financial assets under IAS 39 and measured at fair value have of the Group is given in Note 44, Principal Group companies.
been classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL under IFRS 9 as the contractual cash flows are not solely Financial period payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2018, with comparative figures for the financial years Liquid investments that were classified as available-for-sale from 1 January to 31 December 2017 and, where appropriate, from financial assets measured at fair value under IAS 39 have been 1 January to 31 December 2016. classified as measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9 as they are held within a business model, the objective of which is to collect Accounting principles and policies the contractual cash flows.
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical Investments in money market funds included in Cash and cash cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as equivalents that were classified as amortised cost financial assets stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
under IAS 39 have been classified as FVTPL under IFRS 9 as the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance contractual cash flows are not solely payments of principal and with the Groups accounting policies approved by the Board interest on the principal amount outstanding.
and described in Note 2, Accounting principles and policies.
The Groups trade receivables were all classified as financial Information on the application of these accounting policies, assets measured at amortised cost under IAS 39.
Under IFRS 9, including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, the business model under which each portfolio of trade Key accounting judgements and estimates.
receivables held has been assessed.
The Group has portfolios The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with in each of the three business models under IFRS 9: to collect the generally accepted accounting principles requires management contractual cash flows measured at amortised cost, to sell the to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported contractual cash flows measured at FVTPL, and both to collect amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent and to sell the contractual cash flows measured at FVTOCI.
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
145 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 1.
Presentation of the financial statements continued Amounts receivable under insurance contracts included in Other Impact of new standards on each financial non-current assets were held at FVTPL or amortised cost under statement line item IAS 39.
Under IFRS 9, as the contractual cash flows are not The table below shows the amount of adjustment for each financial solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount statement line item affected by the application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 outstanding, the amounts receivable are classified as measured at 1 January 2018. at FVTPL.
There were no material changes in carrying value of financial assets As previously IFRS 9 IFRS 15 reported adjustments adjustments As restated as a result of these changes in measurement basis.
m m m m Impairment of financial assets Trade and other receivables 6,000 15 5,985 IFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss ECL model to be applied Liquid investments 78 1 79 to financial assets rather than the incurred credit loss model required Other payables - returns 3,463 29 3,492 under IAS 39.
The expected credit loss model requires the Group and rebates to account for expected losses as a result of credit risk on initial Other payables - deferred 240 27 213 recognition of financial assets and to recognise changes in those income expected credit losses at each reporting date.
Deferred tax assets 3,796 3 2 3,797 12-month ECLs are applied to all financial assets not measured at FVTPL except for net trade receivables which are measured Total effect on net assets 3,489 11 4 3,474 reflecting lifetime ECLs using the simplified approach.
An additional ECL allowance of 15 million for trade receivables was recognised Fair value reserve 329 288 41 on transition to IFRS 9.
There were no other transition adjustments Retained earnings 6,477 277 4 6,204 arising from the change in impairment basis.
The additional ECL allowance of 15 million at 1 January 2018 has Total effect on equity 3,489 11 4 3,474 been recognised against opening retained earnings, together with a related deferred tax impact of 3 million.
The 288 million transfer between retained earnings and the fair value reserve resulted from the reclassification of previous General hedge accounting impairment losses on equity investments now designated as The new general hedge accounting requirements retain the three measured at FVTOCI under IFRS 9 from retained earnings to types of hedge accounting which were available under IAS 39: the fair value reserve.
fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and net investment hedges.
However, the effectiveness testing requirements have been The application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 has had no impact on the simplified.
consolidated cash flows of the Group.
The Group has applied the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements Parent company financial statements prospectively from the date of initial application of 1 January 2018.
All existing hedging relationships are eligible, and continued to be The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline effective, under IFRS 9. plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK accounting presentation.
The company balance sheet is presented Implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts on page 219 and the accounting policies are given on page 220. with customers The Group has applied IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers with effect from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 provides a single, principles-based approach to the recognition of revenue from all contracts with customers.
It focuses on the identification of performance obligations in a contract and requires revenue to be recognised when or as those performance obligations are satisfied.
GSK adopted IFRS 15 applying the modified retrospective approach.
IFRS 15 did not have a material impact on the amount or timing of recognition of reported revenue.
At 1 January 2018, a cumulative adjustment to decrease retained earnings of 4 million was recognised.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 15 where the modified retrospective approach is adopted, prior year results have not been restated.
