258 GSK Annual Report 2018 Other statutory disclosures continued US law and regulation A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock controls and procedures that ensure that material information is Exchange NYSE in the form of ADS.
made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results NYSE rules of such evaluation being contained in the annual report on Form 20-F In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the US, control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance provided that we explain any significant variations.
This explanation regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be accessed from the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commissions SEC EDGAR database or generally accepted accounting principles via our website.
NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require us to file annual and interim written affirmations concerning the Audit & they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any Risk Committee ARC and our statement on significant differences changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the in corporate governance.
period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 companys internal control over financial reporting, and they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal control Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the US, over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the ARC, all Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with financial operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reporting and corporate governance.
reasonably likely to affect adversely the companys ability to record, process, summarise and report financial information, and any fraud As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a regardless of materiality involving persons that have a significant Disclosure Committee.
The Committee reports to the CEO, the role in the companys internal control over financial reporting.
It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and corporate communications and investor relations.
with the participation of its management, including the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2018. are invited to attend the Disclosure Committees meetings periodically.
The Committee has responsibility for considering the There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility disclosure of that information.
It has responsibility for the timely filing of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and Form 20-F.
In 2018, the Committee met 26 times.
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F contain a statement as to whether a member of the ARC is an audit The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and committee financial expert as defined by Sarbanes-Oxley.
Such report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls a statement for the relevant member of the ARC Judy Lewent is and procedures in March 2019, following which the certifications included in the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 79 and in will be filed with the SEC as part of our Groups Form 20-F. her biography on page 70.
Additional disclosure requirements arise Section 404: Managements annual report on internal control under section 302 and section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect over financial reporting of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanesfinancial reporting.
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of the companys internal control over financial reporting as defined in Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities Exchange reports Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act : Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and management is responsible for establishing and maintaining the CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that: adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes contains no material misstatements or omissions in accordance with IFRS based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the internal control over financial reporting based on the framework, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the the dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway on Form 20-F Commission COSO there have been no changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during 2018 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal control over financial reporting 259 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information US law and regulation continued management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control Because the Group does not regularly receive information regarding over financial reporting as at 31 December 2018 and its the identity of its distributors downstream customers, it cannot conclusion will be filed as part of the Groups Form 20-F, and establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to entities affiliated with the Iranian government or Deloitte LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial parties sanctioned for disclosable activities.
As a result, the Group statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018, is reporting the entire gross revenues 16.3 million and net profits has also assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control 7.8 million from the Groups sales to Iran in 2018. over financial reporting under Auditing Standard 2201 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical Their audit report will be filed with the Groups Form 20-F. facilities in Lebanon may be affiliated with or controlled by Hezbollah, which is designated by the United States as a terrorist organisation.
Section 13 r of the Exchange Act Again, the Group does not deal directly with such facilities and sells through distributors.
The Group is also unable to identify with Section 13 r of the Exchange Act Section 13 r requires issuers certainty the degree or nature of any affiliation of the end customers to make specific disclosure in their annual reports of certain types with Hezbollah, and the Group is unable to establish the proportion of dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to reportable government-owned entities, as well as dealings with entities entities.
As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of 45.4 million and net profits 21.5 million from the Groups sales weapons of mass destruction, even when those activities are not to Lebanon in 2018. prohibited by US law and do not involve US persons.
The Group In addition to Section 13 r, US law also generally restricts dealings exports certain pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer products by US persons or persons which are subject to US jurisdiction with to Iran, via sales by non-US entities, to two privately held Iranian certain countries or territories that are subject to comprehensive distributors.
The Group does business, via non-US entities, in such We do not believe that any of the Groups direct dealings with jurisdictions targeted by sanctions laws, including Syria, Cuba, Iran require specific disclosure under these requirements.
While we believe the Group complies with all applicable US sanctions laws in all material respects, The Group does not regularly receive information regarding the such laws are complex and continue to evolve rapidly.
identity of its distributors downstream customers in Iran, and it is possible that these customers include entities, such as government-owned hospitals and pharmacies, that are owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Iranian government or by persons or entities sanctioned in connection with terrorism or proliferation activities.
Donations to political organisations and political expenditure With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach As a result, the definitions may cover legitimate business activities to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global not in the ordinary sense considered to be political donations or policy to voluntarily stop all corporate political contributions.
political expenditure, nor are they designed to support any political party or independent election candidate.
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2018, the Group did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU organisations.
Therefore, notwithstanding our policy, and while we do not intend to make donations to any EU political parties or organisations, nor to Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance with the incur any EU political expenditure, we annually seek shareholder Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue to support an authorisation for any inadvertent expenditure.
employee-operated Political Action Committee PAC that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible GSK employees.
The authority is a precautionary measure to ensure that the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the legislation.
The PAC is not controlled by GSK.
Decisions on the amounts and recipients of contributions are made by participating employees This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to 100,000 exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following the contributions, which are subject to strict limitations.
In 2018, a total introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act of US$ 345,190 2017 US$ 384,875 was donated to political 2000.
The authority has since been renewed annually.
organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
English law requires prior shareholder approval for political contributions to EU political parties and independent election candidates as well as for any EU political expenditure.
The definitions of political donations, political expenditure, and political organisations used in the legislation are, however, quite broad.
In particular, the definition of EU political organisations may extend to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, the representation of the business community and special interest groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the company and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
