144 GSK Annual Report 2018 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Presentation of the financial statements Description of business Implementation of IFRS 9 Financial instruments GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged in the The Group has applied IFRS 9 Financial instruments with effect creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for the of pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the-counter OTC classification and measurement of financial assets and financial medicines and health-related consumer products.
GSKs principal liabilities, impairments for financial assets and general hedge pharmaceutical products include medicines in the following accounting.
therapeutic areas: respiratory, HIV, immuno-inflammation, anti-virals, Details of these new requirements as well as their impact on the central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, Groups consolidated financial statements are described below.
The Group has adopted IFRS 9 retrospectively but with certain permitted exceptions as detailed below.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS Classification and measurement of financial assets The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The date of initial application was 1 January 2018.
The Group has the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and not applied the requirements of IFRS 9 to instruments that were International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related derecognised prior to 1 January 2018 and has not restated prior interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
Any difference between the previous carrying amount and the The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued revised carrying amount at 1 January 2018 has been recognised as by the International Accounting Standards Board.
an adjustment to opening retained earnings at 1 January 2018.
Composition of financial statements All financial assets that are within the scope of IFRS 9 are required to be measured at amortised cost or fair value, with movements through The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, other comprehensive income or the income statement on the basis of the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance GSKs business model for managing the financial assets and the with IFRS accounting presentation.
The financial statements contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets.
comprise: IFRS 9 had the following impact on the Groups assets: Consolidated income statement The Group has elected to recognise movements in the fair value of Consolidated statement of comprehensive income equity investments in other comprehensive income under IFRS 9.
Consolidated balance sheet Investments in equity instruments that were previously classified as available-for-sale financial assets measured at fair value have been Consolidated statement of changes in equity designated as measured at fair value through other comprehensive Consolidated cash flow statement income FVTOCI under IFRS 9.
As a result, fair value movements are now recorded in other comprehensive income along with gains Notes to the financial statements.
or losses on disposal of the investments.
Composition of the Group The Groups investments in limited life funds included in Other A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion of investments that were previously classified as available-for-sale the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net assets financial assets under IAS 39 and measured at fair value have of the Group is given in Note 44, Principal Group companies.
been classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL under IFRS 9 as the contractual cash flows are not solely Financial period payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2018, with comparative figures for the financial years Liquid investments that were classified as available-for-sale from 1 January to 31 December 2017 and, where appropriate, from financial assets measured at fair value under IAS 39 have been 1 January to 31 December 2016. classified as measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9 as they are held within a business model, the objective of which is to collect Accounting principles and policies the contractual cash flows.
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical Investments in money market funds included in Cash and cash cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as equivalents that were classified as amortised cost financial assets stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
under IAS 39 have been classified as FVTPL under IFRS 9 as the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance contractual cash flows are not solely payments of principal and with the Groups accounting policies approved by the Board interest on the principal amount outstanding.
and described in Note 2, Accounting principles and policies.
The Groups trade receivables were all classified as financial Information on the application of these accounting policies, assets measured at amortised cost under IAS 39.
Under IFRS 9, including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, the business model under which each portfolio of trade Key accounting judgements and estimates.
receivables held has been assessed.
The Group has portfolios The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with in each of the three business models under IFRS 9: to collect the generally accepted accounting principles requires management contractual cash flows measured at amortised cost, to sell the to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported contractual cash flows measured at FVTPL, and both to collect amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent and to sell the contractual cash flows measured at FVTOCI.
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
