GSK Annual Report 2018 About GSK Brand names GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an English Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks either owned by and or licensed to GSK public limited company on 6 December 1999.
We were or associated companies, with the exception of Cialis owned by Eli Lilly and Company, Gardasil owned by Merck Sharp & formed by a merger between Glaxo Wellcome plc and Dohme Corp. and Rituxan owned by Biogen MA Inc. Zofran owned by Novartis AG Trumenba owned by Pfizer Inc. and SmithKline Beecham plc.
GSK acquired these two Volibris owned by Gilead Science.
English companies on 27 December 2000 as part Acknowledgements Design of the merger arrangements.
com Printing Pureprint Group, ISO 14001.
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange FSC certified and Carbon Neutral.
and the New York Stock Exchange.
Paper This Annual Report is printed on Revive 100 Silk, a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certification.
com All pulps used are made from 100% fide-inked, paper waste and are elemental chlorine free.
The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and EU Ecolabel certificates for environmental management.
Download PDFs: Annual Report 2018 Form 20-F Cautionary statement regarding The information in this document does not constitute an They also assume that the proposed Consumer Healthcare forward-looking statements offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GlaxoSmithKline nutrition disposal closes by the end of 2019 and the plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other proposed Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with Pfizer The Groups reports filed with or furnished to the US investment activities.
Past performance cannot be relied closes during H2 2019 and that the integration and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including upon as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this investment programmes following the Tesaro acquisition this document and written information released, or oral Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
and the proposed Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf with Pfizer over this period are delivered successfully.
of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
Assumptions related to 2016-2020 outlook Forward-looking statements give the Groups current Material costs for investment in new product launches and In outlining the expectations for 2019 and the five-year expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can R&D have been factored into the expectations given.
Given period 2016-2020, the Group has made certain identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate the potential development options in the Groups pipeline, assumptions about the healthcare sector, the different strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such the outlook may be affected by additional data-driven R&D markets in which the Group operates and the delivery of as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, investment decisions.
The expectations are given on a revenues and financial benefits from its current portfolio, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar constant currency basis 2016-2020 outlook at 2015 CER.
meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
In particular, these Subject to material changes in the product mix, the Groups For the Group specifically, over the period to 2020, GSK include statements relating to future actions, prospective medium-term effective tax rate is expected to be around expects further declines in sales of Seretide Advair.
The products or product approvals, future performance or 19% of Adjusted profits.
This incorporates managements introduction of a generic alternative to Advair in the US has results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, best estimates of the impact of US tax reform on the Group been factored into the Groups assessment of its future expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal based on the information currently available.
The Group assumes no premature loss of proceedings, and financial results.
Other than in information on the detailed application of the US Tax Cuts exclusivity for other key products over the period.
accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations and Jobs Act becomes available, the assumptions including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure The assumptions for the Groups revenue, earnings and underlying these estimates could change with consequent and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct dividend expectations assume no material interruptions adjustments to the charges taken that could have a material Authority, the Group undertakes no obligation to update to supply of the Groups products, no material mergers, impact on the results of the Group.
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of acquisitions or disposals, except for the acquisition of Notice regarding limitations on new information, future events or otherwise.
The reader Tesaro, the proposed divestment of Horlicks and other Director Liability under English Law should, however, consult any additional disclosures that Consumer Healthcare products to Unilever and the Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the Group may make in any documents which it publishes proposed formation of a new Consumer Healthcare the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and and or files with the SEC.
All readers, wherever located, Joint Venture with Pfizer, all announced in December 2018, omissions from the Directors Report for which see page should take note of these disclosures.
Accordingly, no no material litigation or investigation costs for the Company 94, the Strategic report and the Remuneration report.
assurance can be given that any particular expectation save for those that are already recognised or for which Under English law the Directors would be liable to the will be met and shareholders are cautioned not to place provisions have been made, no share repurchases by company, but not to any third party, if one or more of these undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
the Company, and no change in the Groups shareholdings reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or in ViiV Healthcare.
The assumptions also assume no Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material changes in the macro-economic and healthcare inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to material fact, but would otherwise not be liable.
The 2019 guidance and 2016-2020 outlook factors that are beyond the Groups control or precise to 94, 126 to 127, and 241 to 270 inclusive comprise the have factored in all divestments and product exits since estimate.
The Group cautions investors that a number of Directors Report, pages 01 to 64 inclusive comprise the 2015, including the divestment and exit of more than important factors, including those in this document, could Strategic report and pages 95 to 124 inclusive comprise 130 non-core tail brands 0.5 billion in annual sales as cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn announced on 26 July 2017 and the product divestments or implied in any forward-looking statement.
up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon planned in connection with the proposed Consumer English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in Healthcare transaction with Pfizer.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed connection with these reports shall be subject to the under Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 241 to The Groups expectations assume successful delivery of the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Any forward-looking statements Groups integration and restructuring plans over the period made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the date 2016-2020, including the extension and enhancement to Website they are made and are based upon the knowledge and the combined programme announced on 26 July 2017 as GSKs website www.
com gives additional information information available to the Directors on the date of this well as the new major restructuring plan announced on on the Group.
Notwithstanding the references we make Annual Report.
25 July 2018. in this Annual Report to GSKs website, none of the A number of non-IFRS measures are used to report the information made available on the website constitutes performance of our business.
These measures are defined part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be on pages 41 to 42 and a reconciliation of Adjusted results to incorporated by reference herein.
Total results is set out on page 51.
Head Office and Registered Office GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Search for us here Registered number: 3888792 www.
