254 GSK Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information continued Annual General Meeting 2019 Our Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 2.30pm ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting should contact BNY UK time on Wednesday 8 May 2019 at Sofitel London Heathrow, Mellon, as Depositary, to request a proxy appointment.
This will Terminal 5, London Heathrow Airport, TW6 2GD.
enable them to attend and vote on the business to be transacted.
ADS holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the way in which the The AGM is the companys principal forum for communication shares represented by their ADS should be voted by completing with private shareholders.
In addition to the formal business, and returning the voting card provided by the Depositary.
there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of the Group and its future development.
There will be an opportunity Documents on display for questions to be asked to the Board.
Chairs of the Boards Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
The Articles of Association of the company and Directors service contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries and any side with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements are their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
available for inspection at the companys registered office and will be made available for inspection at the AGM.
Tax information for shareholders A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax Taxation of capital gains consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens of UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the the UK or the US is set out below.
It is not a complete analysis of all disposal of shares or ADS.
the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of these securities.
It is intended only as a general guide.
Holders For disposals by individuals in the 2018 19 UK tax year, a taxable are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS will be taxed consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after all allowable or ADS and the consequences under state and local tax laws in deductions, the individuals taxable income for the year exceeds the US and the implications of the current UK US tax conventions.
the basic rate income tax limit.
Note this is following the use of any US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of the exceptions available to the individual taxpayer such as the annual underlying shares for the purposes of the current US UK double exempt amount.
taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation allowance Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention, which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent that such gains and for the purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as arise due to inflation.
Indexation allowance may reduce a chargeable amended the Code.
gain but will not create an allowable loss.
For assets acquired on or before 1 January 2018, legislation in the Finance Act 2018 freezes UK shareholders the level of indexation allowance that is given in calculating a companys chargeable gains at the value that would apply to the This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds disposal of an asset in December 2017.
For assets acquired from shares as capital assets.
1 January 2018 onwards, legislation in the Finance Act 2018 removes any indexation allowance on disposal.
Taxation of dividends Inheritance tax For the UK tax year from 2018 19 UK resident individuals are entitled to a dividend tax allowance of up to 2,000, so that the first 2,000 Individual UK-domiciled or otherwise shareholders may be liable of dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax.
Dividends in to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS.
Tax may excess of this allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for basic rate be charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholders taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of lifetime gift or rate taxpayers.
other disposal at less than full market value.
In the case of a bequest UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note on death, tax may be charged on the value of the shares at the that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally entitled to date of the shareholders death.
If such a gift or other disposal exemption from corporation tax.
were subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK.
