151 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 3.
Key accounting judgements and estimates In preparing the financial statements, management is required to Estimates make judgements about when or how items should be recognised in If sufficient information is available, in estimating a potential tax the financial statements and estimates and assumptions that affect liability GSK applies a risk-based approach which takes into account, the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in as appropriate, the probability that the Group would be able to obtain the financial statements.
Actual amounts and results could differ from compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
The following are considered to be the critical estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time as each dispute progresses and Turnover new facts emerge.
Reported Group turnover for 2018 was 30,821 million 2017 At 31 December 2018, the Group had recognised provisions 30,186 million.
of 1,082 million in respect of uncertain tax positions 2017 1,175 million.
Because of the nature of these uncertain positions, Estimates it is not practicable to give meaningful sensitivity estimates.
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out in Note 14, product arrangements and buying groups.
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission of provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale.
Accruals Where open issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters may are made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts or vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available market of negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, information and historical experience.
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the Legal and other disputes final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product Legal costs for the year were 117 million 2017 166 million.
At 31 December 2018 provisions for legal and other disputes amounted to 219 million 2017 186 million.
The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical Judgement trends, past experience and projected market conditions.
Market Management makes a judgement of whether there is sufficient conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party information to be able to make a reliable estimate of the likely analyses, market research data and internally generated information.
outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising from Revenue is not recognised in full until it is highly probable that a claims against the Group.
If insufficient information is available, significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised no provision is made and disclosure of the claim is given.
The amount of turnover recognised in the year from Estimates performance obligations satisfied in previous periods is set out in The estimated provisions take into account the specific Note 6, Turnover and segment information.
circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time are based to change, which could affect the future results of the as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge.
status and various uncertainties involved in the significant unresolved disputes are set out in Note 45, Legal proceedings.
Taxation The companys Directors, having taken legal advice, have The tax charge for the year was 754 million 2017 1,356 million.
established provisions after taking into account the relevant facts At December 2018, current tax payable was 965 million 2017 and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with 995 million, non-current corporation tax payable was 272 million accounting requirements.
In respect of product liability claims related 2017 411 million and current tax recoverable was 229 million to certain products there is sufficient history of claims made and 2017 258 million.
settlements to enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
The Group may Judgement become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities.
possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, Management makes a judgement of whether there is sufficient if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
information to be able to make a reliable estimate of the outcome In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be of the dispute.
If insufficient information is available, no provision provided, but no provision would be made and no contingent liability is made.
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported in the Groups financial statements by a material amount.
