254 GSK Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information continued Annual General Meeting 2019 Our Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 2.30pm ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting should contact BNY UK time on Wednesday 8 May 2019 at Sofitel London Heathrow, Mellon, as Depositary, to request a proxy appointment.
This will Terminal 5, London Heathrow Airport, TW6 2GD.
enable them to attend and vote on the business to be transacted.
ADS holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the way in which the The AGM is the companys principal forum for communication shares represented by their ADS should be voted by completing with private shareholders.
In addition to the formal business, and returning the voting card provided by the Depositary.
there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of the Group and its future development.
There will be an opportunity Documents on display for questions to be asked to the Board.
Chairs of the Boards Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
The Articles of Association of the company and Directors service contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries and any side with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements are their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
available for inspection at the companys registered office and will be made available for inspection at the AGM.
Tax information for shareholders A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax Taxation of capital gains consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens of UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the the UK or the US is set out below.
It is not a complete analysis of all disposal of shares or ADS.
the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of these securities.
It is intended only as a general guide.
Holders For disposals by individuals in the 2018 19 UK tax year, a taxable are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS will be taxed consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after all allowable or ADS and the consequences under state and local tax laws in deductions, the individuals taxable income for the year exceeds the US and the implications of the current UK US tax conventions.
the basic rate income tax limit.
Note this is following the use of any US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of the exceptions available to the individual taxpayer such as the annual underlying shares for the purposes of the current US UK double exempt amount.
taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation allowance Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention, which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent that such gains and for the purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as arise due to inflation.
Indexation allowance may reduce a chargeable amended the Code.
gain but will not create an allowable loss.
For assets acquired on or before 1 January 2018, legislation in the Finance Act 2018 freezes UK shareholders the level of indexation allowance that is given in calculating a companys chargeable gains at the value that would apply to the This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds disposal of an asset in December 2017.
For assets acquired from shares as capital assets.
1 January 2018 onwards, legislation in the Finance Act 2018 removes any indexation allowance on disposal.
Taxation of dividends Inheritance tax For the UK tax year from 2018 19 UK resident individuals are entitled to a dividend tax allowance of up to 2,000, so that the first 2,000 Individual UK-domiciled or otherwise shareholders may be liable of dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax.
Dividends in to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS.
Tax may excess of this allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for basic rate be charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholders taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of lifetime gift or rate taxpayers.
other disposal at less than full market value.
In the case of a bequest UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note on death, tax may be charged on the value of the shares at the that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally entitled to date of the shareholders death.
If such a gift or other disposal exemption from corporation tax.
were subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK.
255 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Tax information for shareholders continued Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the US Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 40.8%.
Some UK stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to types of dividends are automatically excluded from being qualified certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate of dividends, even if they meet the other requirements.
These include 0.5% rounded up to the nearest 5 in the case of stamp duty of the but are not limited to : consideration for the transfer.
Notwithstanding this, provided that an 1.
Capital gains distributions instrument is executed in pursuance of the agreement that gave rise 2.
Dividends on bank deposits to the charge to SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six years of the agreement including being stamped as exempt any 3.
Dividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock SDRT charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already Ownership Plan ESOP been paid will be repaid.
Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations US shareholders US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified dividends may vary and would be assessed in addition to the federal tax rates This summary only applies to a shareholder who is a citizen or communicated above.
resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that is otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in Taxation of capital gains respect of the shares or ADS that holds shares or ADS as capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
other disposal of shares or ADS.
Such gains will be long-term capital gains subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders if The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders the shares or ADS were held for more than one year, from the date that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt the shares were vested released.
Short-term capital gains can be entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, subject to taxation of rates of up to 40.8%, whereas long-term capital persons that hold shares or ADS as part of an integrated investment gains may be subject to rates of up to 23.8%.
State and local tax including a straddle comprised of a share or ADS and one or more rates on capital gains may also apply.
other positions, and persons that own directly or indirectly 10% or more of the voting stock of the company, nor does it address tax Information reporting and backup withholding treatment that may be applicable as a result of international income tax treaties.
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or ADS, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial Taxation of dividends intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identification number dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the dividend and certifies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
Non-US received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADS holders generally are not subject to information reporting or backup are payable in US dollars: dividends on Ordinary shares are payable withholding, but may be required to provide a certification of their in Sterling.
Dividends paid in Sterling will be included in income in non-US status in connection with payments received.
Any amounts the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders US on the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to federal income tax liability provided the required information is certain exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum federal rate of 23.8% plus applicable state and local tax in respect of Estate and gift taxes qualified dividends.
A qualified dividend as defined by the US Internal Revenue Service IRS is a dividend that meets the following criteria: Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not 1.
M ust be issued by a US corporation, a corporation incorporated generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
However, a US capital in a US possession, or a corporation that is eligible for the shareholder may be subject to US Estate and Gift Tax.
benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty deemed Stamp duty satisfactory, as published by the IRS.
T he dividends are not listed with the IRS as dividends that do UK stamp duty and or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, not qualify.
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADS custodian or 3.
The required dividend holding period has been met.
The shares depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration must have been owned by you for more than 60 days of the provided if transferred on sale, or their value if transferred for holding period which is defined as the 121-day period that no consideration.
begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or the day in which However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the transfer the stock trades without the dividend priced in.
For example, if a of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS.
stocks ex-dividend date is 1 October, the shares must be held for more than 60 days in the period between 2 August and 30 November of that year in order to count as a qualified dividend.
