218 GSK Annual Report 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 45.
Legal proceedings continued Lamictal In addition to the SEC case, one private matter the Martinolich Purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers filed suit in case remains.
It is also pending in federal district court in Florida but the US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that has been stayed pending the trial of the SEC matter.
The allegations the Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay in the Martinolich case largely track those in the SEC matter: the generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to the plaintiff, a former Stiefel employee, alleges that Stiefel and its officers purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive reverse and directors violated the US Employee Retirement Income Security payment settlement to resolve patent infringement litigation.
A Act ERISA and federal and state securities laws by inducing Stiefel separate count accuses the Group of monopolising the market.
employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a greatly undervalued price and without disclosing to On 26 June 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed the trial courts employees that Stiefel was about to be sold to the Group.
decision to dismiss the case and remanded the action back to the trial court.
On 18 May 2016, the trial court denied the indirect Environmental matters purchaser class plaintiffs motion for reconsideration of the Courts The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating dismissal of their claims.
As a result, the indirect purchaser class to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain representatives agreed to a settlement to exit the case and resolve sites, primarily in the US.
Some of these matters are the subject of their remaining claims.
On 13 December 2018, the trial judge litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state granted plaintiffs class certification motion, certifying a class of governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and tort direct purchasers in this action.
The Group is pursuing an appeal actions brought by private parties.
with the Court of Appeals regarding the class certification.
The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party at Commercial and corporate approximately 16 sites, of which nine appear on the National Priority The Group is a defendant in certain cases which allege violation List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response of US federal securities and ERISA laws.
The Group has been able Compensation and Liability Act Superfund.
These proceedings to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect of the seek to require the operators of hazardous waste facilities, matters discussed in this category and has included a provision for transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous such matters in the provision for legal and other disputes.
Matters waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse for which the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, the US Government for cleanup costs.
In most instances, the Other provisions.
Group is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste.
Securities ERISA class actions Stiefel Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and On 12 December 2011, the US Securities and Exchange severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are frequently Commission SEC filed a formal complaint against Stiefel resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed Laboratories, Inc. and Charles Stiefel in the US District Court for of by the generator at the site.
The Groups proportionate liability for the District of Florida alleging that Stiefel and its principals violated cleanup costs has been substantially determined for 18 of the sites federal securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their referred to above.
shares in the employee stock plan back to the company at a greatly The Groups potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
The cost undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that the of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over time, company was about to be sold to the Group.
The case was stayed be significant.
The Group has made a provision for these matters, as while several private actions brought by former Stiefel employees noted in Note 29, Other provisions.
proceeded through the courts but was returned to active status in early summer 2015.
It is unclear when the case ultimately will be scheduled for trial.
Post balance sheet events The agreement to acquire Tesaro, Inc. for $5.1 billion in cash, which On 31 January 2019, Mylan N. V. announced that the US Food and was signed in December 2018, completed on 22 January 2019.
Drug Administration had approved their therapeutically equivalent generic of Advair Diskus for certain patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
