Shareholder information Glencore plc is registered in Jersey, with headquarters inSwitzerland and operations around the world.
Headquarters Enquiries Baarermattstrasse 3 Corporate Services P. O.
Box 777 Glencore plc CH-6341 Baar Baarermattstrasse 3 Switzerland P. O.
Box 777 CH-6341 Baar Registered Office Switzerland Queensway House Tel.
com Jersey JE1 1ES The Company has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange LSE and a secondary listing on the JohannesburgStock Exchange JSE.
Share registrars Jersey for London listing Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited Queensway House Hilgrove Street St Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES Channel Islands Tel.
: 44 0 870 707 4040 Johannesburg Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd 70 Marshall Street Johannesburg 2001 South Africa Tel.
: 27 0 11 370 5000 236 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Important notice regarding compilation of report Important notice concerning this document including Neither Glencore nor any of its associates or directors, forwardlooking statements.
officersoradvisers, provides any representation, assurance orguarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed or This document contains statements that are, or may implied in any forward-looking statements in this document bedeemed to be, forward-looking statements which are will actually occur.
You are cautioned not to place undue prospective in nature.
These forward-looking statements may reliance on these forward-looking statements which only be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, or the speakas of the date ofthis document.
negative thereof such as outlook, plans, expects or does not expect, is expected, continues, assumes, is subject to, Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, budget, scheduled, estimates, aims, forecasts, risks, Glencoreis not under any obligation and Glencore and its intends, positioned, predicts, anticipates or does not affiliates expressly disclaim any intention, obligation or anticipate, or believes, or variations of such words or undertaking, to update or revise any forward looking comparable terminology and phrases or statements that statements, whether as a result of new information, future certain actions, events or results may, could, should, shall, events or otherwise.
This document shall not, under any would, might or will be taken, occur or be achieved.
Such circumstances, create any implication that there has been statements are qualified in their entirety by the inherent risks nochange in the business or affairs of Glencore since the and uncertainties surrounding future expectations.
Forwarddateof this document orthat the information contained looking statements are not basedon historical facts, but rather hereinis correct as at any time subsequent to its date.
on current predictions, expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, No statement in this document is intended as a profit forecast objectives, goals, intentions and projections about future ora profit estimate and no statement in this document should events, results of operations, prospects, financial condition be interpreted to mean that earnings per Glencore share for anddiscussions of strategy.
thecurrent or future financial years would necessarily match By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known orexceed the historical published earnings per Glencore share.
andunknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are This document does not constitute or form part of any offer beyond Glencores control.
Forward looking statements are or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to notguarantees of future performance and may and often purchase or subscribe for any securities.
The making of this dodiffer materially from actual results.
Important factors that document does not constitute a recommendation regarding could cause these uncertainties include, but are not limited to, anysecurities.
those discussed in the Principal Risk and Uncertainties section on page 24.
The companies in which Glencore plc directly and indirectly hasan interest are separate and distinct legal entities.
In this For example, our future revenues from our assets, projects document, Glencore, Glencore group and Group are used ormines will be based, in part, on the market price of the for convenience only where references are made to Glencore commodity products produced, which may vary significantly plc and its subsidiaries in general.
These collective expressions from current levels.
These may materially affect the timing are used for ease of reference only and do not imply any andfeasibility of particular developments.
Other factors otherrelationship between the companies.
Likewise, the include without limitation the ability to produce and transport wordswe, us and our are also used to refer collectively products profitably, demand for our products, changes to the tomembers of the Group or to those who work for them.
assumptions regarding the recoverable value of our tangible Theseexpressions are also used where no useful purpose is and intangible assets, the effect of foreign currency exchange served by identifying the particular company or companies.
rates on market prices and operating costs, and actions bygovernmental authorities, such as changes in taxation orregulation, and political uncertainty.
This report is printed on UPM Fine SC which is FSC certified, as well as having ISO14001 EMS, EMAS and the European EcoLabel.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint who are a CarbonNeutral company.
Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
If you have finished with this document and no longer wish toretain it, please pass it on to other interested readers ordispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
Designed and produced by Glencore Annual Report 2018 237 Glencore plc Annual Report 2018 Glencore plc Baarermattstrasse 3 CH-6340 Baar Switzerland Tel: 41 41 709 2000 Fax: 41 41 709 3000 E-mail: info@glencore.
