Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Consolidated statement of cash flows Notes to the financial statements As at 31 December 2018 continued 1.
Accounting policies Total reserves and Total equity NonCorporate information Own Deficit Other deficit attributable controlling Glencore plc the Company, Parent, the Group or Glencore, is a leading integrated producer and marketer of natural resources, shares retained Share reserves retained Share to equity interests Total with worldwide activities in the production, refinement, processing, storage, transport and marketing of metals and minerals, energy US$ million earnings premium Note 16 Note 16 earnings capital holders Note 33 equity products and agricultural products.
Glencore operates on a global scale, marketing and distributing physical commodities sourced 1 January 2017 3,739 52,338 2,802 1,700 44,097 146 44,243 462 43,781 from third party producers and own production to industrial consumers, such as those in the automotive, steel, power generation, Income for the year 5,777 5,777 5,777 615 5,162 oil and food processing industries.
Glencore also provides financing, logistics and other services to producers and consumers of Other comprehensive income 174 695 869 869 57 812 commodities.
In this regard, Glencore seeks to capture value throughout the commodity supply chain.
Glencores long experience Total comprehensive income 5,951 695 6,646 6,646 672 5,974 as a commodity producer and merchant has allowed it to develop and build upon its expertise in the commodities which it markets 1 Own share disposal 60 125 65 65 65 and cultivate long-term relationships with a broad supplier and customer base across diverse industries and in multiple Equity-settled share-based geographic regions.
2 expenses 105 105 105 105 Glencore plc is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are traded Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 318 318 318 676 997 on the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
On 31 January 2018, the Company delisted its shares from the Hong Kong 3 Acquisition disposal of business 12 12 12 1,704 1,716 stock exchange.
4 Distributions paid 998 998 998 194 1,192 These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a Directors resolution on 28 February 2019.
At 31 December 2017 2,269 51,340 2,425 1,575 49,609 146 49,755 300 49,455 5 Impact from the adoption of IFRS 9 25 25 25 25 Statement of compliance 1 January 2018 2,244 51,340 2,425 1,575 49,584 146 49,730 300 49,430 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with: Income for the year 3,408 3,408 3,408 792 2,616 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU effective for the Other comprehensive income 159 1,310 1,469 1,469 49 1,518 year ended 31 December 2018, and Total comprehensive income 3,249 1,310 1,939 1,939 841 1,098 1 IFRS and interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective for the year ended Own share disposal 153 262 109 109 109 1 31 December 2018.
Own share purchases 2,005 2,005 2,005 2,005 Equity-settled share-based 2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty expenses 8 8 8 8 The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions Change in ownership interest 6 that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the in subsidiaries 1,207 1,207 1,207 1,108 99 3 financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Estimates and assumptions Acquisition disposal of business 21 21 are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that Reclassifications 5 5 are believed to be reasonable and relevant under the circumstances, independent estimates, quoted market prices and common, 4 Distributions paid 2,836 2,836 2,836 343 3,179 industry standard modelling techniques.
Actual outcomes could result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets At 31 December 2018 5,343 48,504 4,937 3,318 45,592 146 45,738 355 45,383 or liabilities affected in future periods.
Glencore has identified the following areas as being critical to understanding Glencores financial position as they require management 3 See note 25. to make complex and or subjective judgements, estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain: 4 See note 18.
Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, management has made the following judgements based on the relevant The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
facts and circumstances including macro-economic circumstances and, where applicable, interpretation of underlying agreements, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
i Determination of control of subsidiaries and joint arrangements note 35 Judgement is required to determine when Glencore has control of subsidiaries or joint control of joint or other unincorporated arrangements.
This requires an assessment of the relevant activities those relating to the operating and capital decisions of the arrangement, such as: the approval of the capital expenditure programme for each year, and appointing, remunerating and terminating the key management personnel or service providers of the operations and when the decisions in relation to those activities are under the control of Glencore or require unanimous consent.
See note 25 for a summary of the acquisitions of subsidiaries completed during the year and the key judgements made in determining control thereof.
Judgement is also required in determining the classification of a joint arrangement between a joint venture or a joint operation through an evaluation of the rights and obligations arising from the arrangement and in particular, if the joint arrangement has been structured through a separate vehicle, further consideration is required of whether: 1 the legal form of the separate vehicle gives the parties rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities: 2 the contractual terms and conditions give the parties rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities: and 3 other facts and circumstances give the parties rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities.
Joint arrangements in which the primary activity is the provision of output to the shareholders, typically convey substantially all the economic benefits of the assets to the parties and judgement is required in assessing whether the terms of the offtake agreements and any other obligations for liabilities of the arrangement result in the parties being substantially the only source of cash flows contributing to the continuity of the operations of the arrangement.
140 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 141 141 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Certain joint arrangements that are structured through separate vehicles including Collahuasi and Glencore Agri are accounted for as joint ventures.
The Collahuasi arrangement is primarily designed for the provision of output to the shareholders sharing joint control, the offtake terms of which are at prevailing market prices and the parties are not obligated to cover any potential funding shortfalls.
In managements judgement, Glencore is not the only possible source of funding and does not have a direct or indirect obligation to the liabilities of the arrangement, but rather shares in its net assets and, therefore, such arrangements have been accounted for as joint ventures.
Differing conclusions around these judgements, may materially impact how these businesses are presented in the consolidated financial statements under the full consolidation method, equity method or recognition of Glencores share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, including any assets or liabilities held jointly.
See note 10 for a summary of these joint arrangements and the key judgements made in determining the applicable accounting treatment for the material joint arrangements entered during the year.
ii Classification of transactions which contain a financing element notes 20, 21 and 24 Transactions for the purchase of commodities may contain a financing element such as extended payment terms.
Under such an arrangement, a financial institution may issue a letter of credit on behalf of Glencore and act as the paying party upon delivery of product by the supplier and Glencore will subsequently settle the liability directly with the financial institution, generally from 30 up to 90 days after physical supply.
Judgement is required to determine the most appropriate classification and presentation of these transactions within the statements of cash flows and financial position.
In determining the appropriate classification, management considers the underlying economic substance of the transaction and the significance of the financing element to the transaction.
Typically, the economic substance of the transaction is determined to be operating in nature as the financing element is insignificant and the time frame in which the original arrangement is extended by, is consistent and within supply terms commonly provided in the market.
As a result, the entire cash flow is presented as operating in the statement of cash flow with a corresponding trade payable in the statement of financial position.
As at 31 December 2018, trade payables include $5,152 million 2017: $6,673 million of such liabilities arising from supplier financing arrangements, the weighted average of which have extended the settlement of the original payable to 59 days 2017: 80 days after physical supply and are due for settlement 29 days 2017: 42 days after year end.
iii Classification of trade receivables and liabilities at amortised cost or fair value through profit and loss notes 13, 24 and 28 Judgement is required to determine the appropriate IFRS 9 classification of trade receivables containing provisional pricing features i. e. the final selling price is subject to movements in market prices after the date of sale to be measured at amortised cost or fair value through profit and loss.
This requires an assessment of the exposure of the underlying trade receivable to future movements in market prices at the date of initial recognition of such receivable, which is typically the date of delivery of the goods.
Those receivables that are exposed to future movements in market prices have contractual cash flow characteristics that are not solely payments of principal and interest and are therefore measured at fair value through profit or loss see notes 13 and 28.
For those receivables that are not exposed to future movements in market prices, a further assessment of the business model for managing the receivables is required to determine the appropriate classification and measurement.
The business model pertaining to those receivables that do not contain provisional pricing features is to hold the assets to collect the contractual cash flows and as such, these financial assets are classified as at amortised cost see note 13.
A similar assessment is undertaken for trade payables, and for those payables that contain provisional price features, the Group elected to designate the entire payable as at fair value through profit and loss consistent with the accounting for provisionally priced receivables.
The balance of trade payables are classified as at amortised cost see notes 24 and 28.
Differing conclusions around classification of these instruments, may impact the presentation of these financial assets or liabilities within their respective note disclosures.
However, as these types of financial assets and liabilities have short maturities, any estimation uncertainty related to these judgements and or a differing measurement criteria i. e. an expected credit loss impairment model or fair value methodology is not anticipated to result in a material change to the carrying value of the financial asset or liability within the next financial year.
14 142 2 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Certain joint arrangements that are structured through separate vehicles including Collahuasi and Glencore Agri are accounted Key sources of estimation uncertainty for as joint ventures.
The Collahuasi arrangement is primarily designed for the provision of output to the shareholders sharing joint In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, management has made key estimates and assumptions concerning control, the offtake terms of which are at prevailing market prices and the parties are not obligated to cover any potential funding the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty.
The key assumptions and estimates at the reporting date that have shortfalls.
In managements judgement, Glencore is not the only possible source of funding and does not have a direct or indirect a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, obligation to the liabilities of the arrangement, but rather shares in its net assets and, therefore, such arrangements have been are described below.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may materially accounted for as joint ventures.
affect financial results or the financial position reported in future periods.
Differing conclusions around these judgements, may materially impact how these businesses are presented in the consolidated i Recognition of deferred tax assets note 7 financial statements under the full consolidation method, equity method or recognition of Glencores share of assets, liabilities, Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered probable that those assets will be recoverable.
This involves revenue and expenses, including any assets or liabilities held jointly.
See note 10 for a summary of these joint arrangements and an assessment of when those deferred tax assets are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether there will be sufficient taxable the key judgements made in determining the applicable accounting treatment for the material joint arrangements entered during income available to offset the tax assets when they do reverse.
These judgements and estimates are subject to risk and uncertainty the year.
and therefore, to the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, there can be a material increase or decrease in the amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of income in the period in which the change occurs.
The recoverability of deferred ii Classification of transactions which contain a financing element notes 20, 21 and 24 tax assets including the estimates and assumptions contained therein are reviewed regularly by management.
Transactions for the purchase of commodities may contain a financing element such as extended payment terms.
Under such an arrangement, a financial institution may issue a letter of credit on behalf of Glencore and act as the paying party upon delivery of ii Impairments and impairment reversals note 6 product by the supplier and Glencore will subsequently settle the liability directly with the financial institution, generally from 30 Investments in associates and joint ventures, other investments, advances and loans, property, plant and equipment and intangible up to 90 days after physical supply.
Judgement is required to determine the most appropriate classification and presentation of these assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully transactions within the statements of cash flows and financial position.
In determining the appropriate classification, management recoverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets.
If an assets recoverable amount is less than considers the underlying economic substance of the transaction and the significance of the financing element to the transaction.
the assets carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
For those assets which Typically, the economic substance of the transaction is determined to be operating in nature as the financing element is insignificant were impaired in prior periods, if their recoverable amount exceeds their carrying amount, an impairment reversal is recorded and the time frame in which the original arrangement is extended by, is consistent and within supply terms commonly provided in the consolidated statement of income.
Future cash flow estimates which are used to calculate the assets fair value are discounted in the market.
As a result, the entire cash flow is presented as operating in the statement of cash flow with a corresponding trade using asset specific discount rates and are based on expectations about future operations, primarily comprising estimates about payable in the statement of financial position.
As at 31 December 2018, trade payables include $5,152 million 2017: $6,673 million of production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and future prices, price trends and related factors, reserves such liabilities arising from supplier financing arrangements, the weighted average of which have extended the settlement of the and resources, operating costs and capital expenditures.
Estimates are reviewed regularly by management.
Changes in such original payable to 59 days 2017: 80 days after physical supply and are due for settlement 29 days 2017: 42 days after year end.
estimates and in particular, deterioration in the commodity pricing outlook, could impact the recoverable values of these assets, whereby some or all of the carrying amount may be impaired or the impairment charge reversed if pricing outlook improves iii Classification of trade receivables and liabilities at amortised cost or fair value through profit and loss notes 13, 24 and 28 significantly with the impact recorded in the statement of income.
Judgement is required to determine the appropriate IFRS 9 classification of trade receivables containing provisional pricing features i. e. the final selling price is subject to movements in market prices after the date of sale to be measured at amortised cost or fair iii Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs note 22 value through profit and loss.
This requires an assessment of the exposure of the underlying trade receivable to future movements in A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs requires estimates and assumptions to be made market prices at the date of initial recognition of such receivable, which is typically the date of delivery of the goods.
Those receivables around the relevant regulatory framework, the magnitude of the possible disturbance and the timing, extent and costs of the that are exposed to future movements in market prices have contractual cash flow characteristics that are not solely payments of required closure and rehabilitation activities.
Most of these rehabilitation and decommissioning events are expected to take place principal and interest and are therefore measured at fair value through profit or loss see notes 13 and 28.
For those receivables that many years in the future and the currently estimated requirements and costs that will have to be met when the restoration event are not exposed to future movements in market prices, a further assessment of the business model for managing the receivables is occurs are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
required to determine the appropriate classification and measurement.
The business model pertaining to those receivables that do In calculating the appropriate provision for the expected restoration, rehabilitation or decommissioning obligations, cost estimates not contain provisional pricing features is to hold the assets to collect the contractual cash flows and as such, these financial assets of the future potential cash outflows based on current studies of the expected rehabilitation activities and timing thereof, are are classified as at amortised cost see note 13. prepared.
These forecasts are then discounted to their present value using a risk-free rate specific to the liability and the currency A similar assessment is undertaken for trade payables, and for those payables that contain provisional price features, the Group in which they are denominated.
elected to designate the entire payable as at fair value through profit and loss consistent with the accounting for provisionally priced Any changes in the expected future costs or risk-free rate are initially reflected in both the provision and the asset and subsequently receivables.
The balance of trade payables are classified as at amortised cost see notes 24 and 28. in the consolidated statement of income over the remaining economic life of the asset.
As the actual future costs can differ from the Differing conclusions around classification of these instruments, may impact the presentation of these financial assets or liabilities estimates due to changes in laws, regulations, technology, costs and timing, the provisions including the estimates and assumptions within their respective note disclosures.
However, as these types of financial assets and liabilities have short maturities, any estimation contained therein are reviewed regularly by management.
uncertainty related to these judgements and or a differing measurement criteria i. e. an expected credit loss impairment model or fair iv Fair value measurements notes 10, 11, 12, 13, 24, 25, 27 and 28 value methodology is not anticipated to result in a material change to the carrying value of the financial asset or liability within the In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, as discussed below, an assessment of the fair value of assets and next financial year.
liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, most notably, business combinations and marketing inventories and disclosures related to fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
In such instances, fair value measurements are estimated based on the amounts for which the assets and liabilities could be exchanged at the relevant transaction date or reporting period end, and are therefore not necessarily reflective of the cash flow upon actual settlements.
Where fair value measurements cannot be derived from publicly available information, they are estimated using models and other valuation methods.
To the extent possible, the assumptions and inputs used take into account externally verifiable inputs.
However, such information is by nature subject to uncertainty, particularly where comparable market-based transactions often do not exist.
Derivative instruments are carried at fair value for which Glencore evaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level 1, 2 and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Fair values are determined in the following ways: externally verified via comparison to quoted market prices in active markets Level 1 : by using models with externally verifiable inputs Level 2 : or by using alternative procedures such as comparison to comparable instruments and or using models with unobservable market inputs requiring Glencore to make market-based assumptions Level 3.
Level 3 inputs therefore include the highest level of estimation uncertainty.
Adoption of revised standards In the current year, Glencore has adopted a number of new and revised IFRS standards that became effective as of 1 January 2018: i Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions The amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payments clarify the classification and measurement of share-based payments transactions with respect to accounting for cash-settled share-based payment transactions that include a performance obligation, the classification of share-based payment transactions with net settlement features and the accounting for modifications of share-based payment transactions from cash-settled to equity-settled.
The adoption of this amendment has had no material impact on the Group.
142 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 14314 3 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued ii IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 supersedes IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and covers classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 modifies the classification and measurement of certain classes of financial assets and liabilities and required the Group to reassess classification of financial assets from four to three primary categories amortised cost, fair value through profit and loss, fair value through other comprehensive income, reflecting the business model in which assets are managed and their cash flow characteristics.
Financial liabilities continue to be measured at either fair value through profit and loss or amortised cost.
In addition, IFRS 9 introduced an expected credit loss ECL impairment model, which means that anticipated as opposed to incurred credit losses are recognised resulting in earlier recognition of impairments.
Changes in accounting policies resulting from IFRS 9 have been applied as at 1 January 2018, with no restatement of comparative information for prior year other than certain presentation changes.
Consequently, any difference between the carrying amount of financial instruments under IAS 39 and the carrying amount under IFRS 9 has been recognised in the opening retained earnings as at date of initial application.
The following summarises the impact from the adoption of IFRS 9: Presentational changes primarily in the investments note 10, advances and loans note 11, accounts receivable note 13 and accounts payable note 24 note disclosures to reflect the business model and cash flow characteristics of these assets and liabilities and group them into their respective IFRS 9 category or other IFRS classification: Additional disclosure around classification and measurement of financial instruments notes 27 and 28 and Table 1 below : and An additional net credit loss allowance and fair value adjustment of $25 million as at 1 January 2018, recognised against opening retained earnings.
Table 1: Summary of the change in classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities under IFRS 9 and IAS 39 at the date of initial application, 1 January 2018: Original carrying Effect of New carrying Original measurement New measurement category amounts IFRS 9 amount US$ million Notes category under IAS 39 under IFRS 9 under IAS 39 adoption under IFRS 9 Financial assets Investments in equity instruments 10 Available-for-sale Fair value through other 2,268 2,268 investments comprehensive income Other investments in equity 10 Fair value through profit Fair value through other 204 204 1 instruments and loss comprehensive income Loans to associates 11 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 220 220 Other non-current receivables 11 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 804 10 795 and loans Rehabilitation trust fund 11 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 126 126 Trade receivables and advances 13 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 4,642 16 4,626 Trade receivables containing 13 Loans and receivables Fair value through profit 7,292 28 7,264 2 provisional pricing features and loss Margin calls paid 13 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 3,380 3,380 Receivables from associated 13 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 517 1 516 companies Other receivables 13 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 621 3 618 Other financial assets 28 Fair value through profit Fair value through profit 2,311 2,311 and loss and loss Cash and cash equivalents 14 Fair value through profit Amortised cost 2,124 2,124 and loss Financial liabilities Borrowings 20 Amortised cost Amortised cost 33,934 33,934 Trade payables 24 Amortised cost Amortised cost 8,642 8,642 Trade payables containing provisional 24 Amortised cost Fair value through profit 16,022 33 15,989 2 pricing features and loss Margin calls received 24 Amortised cost Amortised cost 443 443 Payables to associated companies 24 Amortised cost Amortised cost 1,052 1,052 Other payables and accrued liabilities 24 Amortised cost Amortised cost 2,015 2,015 Other financial liabilities 28 Fair value through profit Fair value through profit 5,035 5,035 and loss and loss 25 1 The Group designated all eligible equity investments as fair value through other comprehensive income and upon adoption of IFRS 9, $204 million of investments previously classified as fair value through profit and loss were designated as fair value through other comprehensive income.
As a result of the designation of these investments, a fair value loss of $848 million was recognised in other comprehensive income during 2018.
In 2017, fair value movements recognised on these investments in the consolidated statement of income were $11 million.
2 Prior to the adoption of IFRS 9, the Group accounted for provisionally priced features embedded derivatives in certain of its trade receivables and payables at fair value and movements in fair value were recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
The accounting for trade receivables containing an embedded derivative under IFRS 9 is that such provisionally priced trade receivables are now accounted for as one instrument measured at fair value through profit and loss until final settlement.
Furthermore, upon adoption of IFRS 9, the Group elected to designate trade payables containing embedded derivatives at fair value through profit and loss consistent with the accounting required for trade receivables containing an embedded derivative to eliminate any accounting mismatches that would have arisen.
14 144 4 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued ii IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Table 2: Summary of net credit loss and fair value adjustments recognised on initial adoption of IFRS 9: IFRS 9 supersedes IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and covers classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 modifies the classification Effect of IFRS 9 adoption and measurement of certain classes of financial assets and liabilities and required the Group to reassess classification of financial recognised as at assets from four to three primary categories amortised cost, fair value through profit and loss, fair value through other comprehensive US$ million Notes Measurement attributes 1 January 2018 income, reflecting the business model in which assets are managed and their cash flow characteristics.
Financial liabilities continue Financial assets at amortised cost to be measured at either fair value through profit and loss or amortised cost.
In addition, IFRS 9 introduced an expected credit loss Other non-current receivables and 11 ECL is determined based on different scenarios of probability of 10 ECL impairment model, which means that anticipated as opposed to incurred credit losses are recognised resulting in earlier loans default and expected loss applicable to each specific loan recognition of impairments.
Trade receivables and advances 13 ECL is estimated using a provision matrix based on reference to past 16 default experience, adjusted as appropriate for current observable Changes in accounting policies resulting from IFRS 9 have been applied as at 1 January 2018, with no restatement of comparative data information for prior year other than certain presentation changes.
Consequently, any difference between the carrying amount of Receivables from associated 13 ECL is estimated using a provision matrix based on historical average 1 financial instruments under IAS 39 and the carrying amount under IFRS 9 has been recognised in the opening retained earnings companies default rates of similar credit quality counterparties as at date of initial application.
Other receivables 13 ECL is determined based on different scenarios of probability of 3 default and expected loss for each of the specific balances The following summarises the impact from the adoption of IFRS 9: Financial assets and liabilities at Presentational changes primarily in the investments note 10, advances and loans note 11, accounts receivable note 13 and fair value through profit and loss accounts payable note 24 note disclosures to reflect the business model and cash flow characteristics of these assets and liabilities Trade receivables, containing 13 28 Based on observable quoted commodity prices adjusted by a 28 provisional pricing features discount rate, which captures the time value of money and and group them into their respective IFRS 9 category or other IFRS classification: counterparty credit considerations.
Trade payables, containing 24 28 33 Additional disclosure around classification and measurement of financial instruments notes 27 and 28 and Table 1 below : and provisional pricing features 25 An additional net credit loss allowance and fair value adjustment of $25 million as at 1 January 2018, recognised against opening retained earnings.
iii IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Table 1: Summary of the change in classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities under IFRS 9 and IAS 39 at the IFRS 15 applies to revenue from contracts with customers and replaces all of the revenue standards and interpretations in IFRS.
date of initial application, 1 January 2018: The standard outlines the principles an entity must apply to measure and recognise revenue and the related cash flows.
The Group Original has undertaken a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the new standard based on a review of the contractual terms of its carrying Effect of New carrying principal revenue streams with the primary focus being to understand whether the timing and amount of revenue recognised Original measurement New measurement category amounts IFRS 9 amount could differ under IFRS 15.
Changes in accounting policies resulting from IFRS 15 have been applied using the full retrospective US$ million Notes category under IAS 39 under IFRS 9 under IAS 39 adoption under IFRS 9 method, with no restatement of comparative information for prior year in accordance with the practical expedient not to restate Financial assets contracts that begin and end within the same annual reporting period or have been completed as at 1 January 2017.
As the majority Investments in equity instruments 10 Available-for-sale Fair value through other 2,268 2,268 of the Groups revenue is derived from commodity sales, for which the point of recognition is dependent upon contract sales terms investments comprehensive income Incoterms, the transfer of risks and rewards as defined by IAS 18 and the transfer of control as defined by IFRS 15 generally coincides Other investments in equity 10 Fair value through profit Fair value through other 204 204 with the fulfilment of performance obligations under the Incoterms at a point in time.
As such, the adoption of IFRS 15 has had no 1 instruments and loss comprehensive income material impact in respect of timing and amount of revenue recognised by the Group and accordingly prior period amounts were Loans to associates 11 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 220 220 not restated.
Other non-current receivables 11 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 804 10 795 and loans New and revised standards not yet effective Rehabilitation trust fund 11 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 126 126 At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, the following new and revised IFRS standards, which are Trade receivables and advances 13 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 4,642 16 4,626 applicable to Glencore, were issued but are not yet effective: Trade receivables containing 13 Loans and receivables Fair value through profit 7,292 28 7,264 2 provisional pricing features and loss i IFRS 16 Leases effective for year ends beginning on or after 1 January 2019 Margin calls paid 13 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 3,380 3,380 IFRS 16 provides a comprehensive model for identification of lease arrangements and their treatment on-balance sheet in the financial statements of both lessees and lessors.
It supersedes IAS 17 Leases and its associated interpretative guidance.
The Group Receivables from associated 13 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 517 1 516 companies will apply the modified retrospective approach.
Under this approach, the Group will not restate amounts previously reported and will Other receivables 13 Loans and receivables Amortised cost 621 3 618 apply the practical expedient to retain the classification of existing contracts as leases under current accounting standards i. e. IAS 17 instead of reassessing whether existing contracts are or contain a lease at the date of initial application provided these contracts are Other financial assets 28 Fair value through profit Fair value through profit 2,311 2,311 and loss and loss ending within 12 months of the date of initial application.
Cash and cash equivalents 14 Fair value through profit Amortised cost 2,124 2,124 Under the new standard, a lessee is required to recognise the present value of the unavoidable lease payments as a lease liability and loss on the statement of financial position including those currently classified as operating leases with a corresponding right of use Financial liabilities asset.
The unwind of the financial charge on the lease liability and amortisation of the leased asset are recognised in the statement Borrowings 20 Amortised cost Amortised cost 33,934 33,934 of income based on the implied interest rate and contract term respectively.
The Groups recognised assets and liabilities will increase Trade payables 24 Amortised cost Amortised cost 8,642 8,642 and affect the presentation and timing of related depreciation and interest charges in the consolidated statement of income.
Upon Trade payables containing provisional 24 Amortised cost Fair value through profit 16,022 33 15,989 adoption of IFRS 16, the most significant impact will be the present value of the operating lease commitments see note 30 being 2 pricing features and loss shown as a liability on the statement of financial position together with an asset representing the right of use, which are unwound Margin calls received 24 Amortised cost Amortised cost 443 443 and amortised to the statement of income over time.
A preliminary assessment of the impacts resulting from the change in 2019 are Payables to associated companies 24 Amortised cost Amortised cost 1,052 1,052 as follows: Other payables and accrued liabilities 24 Amortised cost Amortised cost 2,015 2,015 Approximately $1,160 million of these arrangements relate to leases other than short-term leases and leases of low-value, and hence Other financial liabilities 28 Fair value through profit Fair value through profit 5,035 5,035 the Group will recognise a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability of approximately $904 million.
Further, the Group will and loss and loss recognise a lease receivable of approximately $62 million relating to chartering relet arrangements, with a corresponding reduction 25 of the right-of-use assets 1 The Group designated all eligible equity investments as fair value through other comprehensive income and upon adoption of IFRS 9, $204 million of investments previously Cost of goods sold will decrease by approximately $35 million and interest expense will increase by approximately $53 million, the classified as fair value through profit and loss were designated as fair value through other comprehensive income.
As a result of the designation of these investments, a fair value loss net result having an immaterial impact on basic and diluted earnings per share of $848 million was recognised in other comprehensive income during 2018.
Operating cash flow will increase by approximately $232 million and cash from financing activities will decrease by approximately 2 Prior to the adoption of IFRS 9, the Group accounted for provisionally priced features embedded derivatives in certain of its trade receivables and payables at fair value and movements in fair value were recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
The accounting for trade receivables containing an embedded derivative under IFRS 9 is that $232 million, and such provisionally priced trade receivables are now accounted for as one instrument measured at fair value through profit and loss until final settlement.
Furthermore, upon adoption of IFRS 9, the Group elected to designate trade payables containing embedded derivatives at fair value through profit and loss consistent with the accounting required for trade Adjusted EBITDA an APM measure, see Glossary for definition will increase by approximately $285 million as the operating lease receivables containing an embedded derivative to eliminate any accounting mismatches that would have arisen.
cost is charged against Adjusted EBITDA under IAS 17, while under IFRS 16 the charge will be included in depreciation and interest as noted above which are excluded from Adjusted EBITDA.
144 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 14514 5 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for certain financial assets, liabilities, marketing inventories and pension obligations that are measured at revalued amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period as explained in the accounting policies below.
Historical cost is defined as the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire them at the time of their acquisition.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The Directors have assessed that they have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
Therefore, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial statements.
Further information on Glencores objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and financial risks are detailed in note 26.
All amounts are expressed in millions of United States Dollars, unless otherwise stated, consistent with the predominant functional currency of Glencores operations.
Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company and its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved when Glencore is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, Glencore controls an investee if, and only if, Glencore has all of the following: Power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns When Glencore has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee or similar rights of an investee, it considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over the investee including: The size of Glencores holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders Potential voting rights held by Glencore, other vote holders or other parties Rights arising from other contractual arrangements, and Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that Glencore has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders meetings The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when Glencore obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when Glencore loses control of the subsidiary.
Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income from the date Glencore gains control until the date when Glencore ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests.
Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
14 146 6 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Basis of preparation Changes in Glencores interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions with The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for certain financial assets, liabilities, marketing any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration inventories and pension obligations that are measured at revalued amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period as paid or received being recognised directly in equity and attributed to equity holders of Glencore.
explained in the accounting policies below.
Historical cost is defined as the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of When Glencore loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is calculated as the consideration given to acquire them at the time of their acquisition.
the difference between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and The Directors have assessed that they have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2018 All amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are accounted for as if Glencore had Annual Report and Accounts.
Therefore, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities of the subsidiary i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another category of statements.
Further information on Glencores objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and equity as specified permitted by applicable IFRSs.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when financial risks are detailed in note 26. control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IFRS 9, when applicable, or the cost on the initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.
Investments in associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures together Associates in which Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control are accounted Principles of consolidation for using the equity method.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds between 20% and and its subsidiaries.
50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to the contrary.
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement.
Joint control is the contractually agreed Control is achieved when Glencore is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the sharing of control over an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about relevant strategic and or key operating decisions ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, Glencore controls an investee if, and only if, Glencore require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
has all of the following: Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the Associates net income and equity.
Glencores interest in an Associate Power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently adjusted for Glencores share of changes in net assets of the Associate, less any Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and impairment in the value of individual investments.
Where Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in that Associate.
The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns Changes in Glencores interests in Associates are accounted for as a gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the amount When Glencore has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee or similar rights of an investee, it considers all relevant by which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration received being recognised directly in facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over the investee including: the consolidated statement of income.
The size of Glencores holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders Joint operations Potential voting rights held by Glencore, other vote holders or other parties A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, Rights arising from other contractual arrangements, and and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that Glencore has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant When Glencore undertakes its activities under joint operations, Glencore recognises in relation to its interest in a joint operation: activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders meetings Its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one Its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly or more of the three elements of control listed above.
Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or Its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income from the date Its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation, and Glencore gains control until the date when Glencore ceases to control the subsidiary.
Its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests.
Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance with non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with Where Glencore transacts with a joint operation, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest the Groups accounting policies.
All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions in that joint operation.
between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Other unincorporated arrangements In some cases, Glencore participates in unincorporated arrangements where it has the rights to its share of the assets and obligations for its share of the liabilities of the arrangement, rather than a right to the net returns of the arrangement, but does not share joint control.
In such cases, Glencore accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in accordance with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement, similar to a joint operation noted above.
Business combinations and goodwill Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition date fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets are recognised at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the consolidated statement of income as incurred.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencores previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date Glencore attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
146 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1471 47 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to the cash-generating units CGU that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss is recognised directly in profit or loss.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not able to be reversed in subsequent periods.
On disposal of the relevant CGU, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, Glencore reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted for additional information obtained during the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on a  basis.
Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another IFRS.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of interests in Associates and joint operations.
Any goodwill arising from such purchases is included within the carrying amount of the investment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter.
Any excess of Glencores share of the net fair value of the Associates identifiable net assets over the cost of the investment is included in the consolidated statement of income in the period of the purchase.
Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups Non-current assets and assets and liabilities included in disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, they are available for immediate disposal and the sale is highly probable.
Non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.
Revenue recognition Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and in some instances the goods are sold on Cost and Freight CFR or Cost, Insurance and Freight CIF Incoterms.
When goods are sold on a CFR or CIF basis, the Group is responsible for providing these services shipping and insurance to the customer, sometimes after the date at which Glencore has lost control of the goods.
Revenue is recognised when the performance obligations have been satisfied, which is once control of the goods and or services has transferred from Glencore to the buyer.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in the contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The same recognition and presentation principles apply to revenues arising from physical settlement of forward sale contracts that do not meet the own use exemption.
Revenue related to the sale of goods is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the destination port or the customers premises and the buyer has gained control through their ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all the benefits from the asset.
Where the sale of goods is connected with an agreement to repurchase goods at a later date, revenue is recognised when the repurchase terms are at prevailing market prices, the goods repurchased are readily available in the market, and the buyer gained control of the goods originally sold to them.
Should it be determined that control has not transferred or the buyer does not have the ability to benefit substantially from ownership of the asset, revenue is not recognised and any proceeds received are accounted for as a financing arrangement.
For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price is subject to movements in market prices up to the date of final pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial booking provisionally priced sales.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on the estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a commodity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
Revenue from the sale of material by-products are included within revenue.
Where a by-product is not regarded as significant, revenue may be credited against cost of goods sold.
Revenue related to the provision of shipping and insurance related activities is recognised over time as the service is rendered.
Payments received for future metal deliveries prepayments are accounted for as executory contracts whereby the prepayment is initially recorded as deferred revenue in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The initial deferred revenue amount is unwound and revenue is recognised in the consolidated statement of income as and when Glencore physically delivers the metal and loses control of it.
Where these prepayments are in excess of one year and contain a significant financing component, the amount of the deferred revenue is adjusted for the effects of the time value of money.
Glencore applies the practical expedient to not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of time value of money if the period between delivery and the respective payment is one year or less.
Royalty, interest and dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment has been established, it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of income can be measured reliably.
Royalty revenue is recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the applicable effective interest rate.
14 148 8 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
For the purpose of impairment Foreign currency translation testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to the cash-generating units CGU that Glencores reporting currency and the functional currency of the majority of its operations is the U. S. dollar as this is assessed to be are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment the principal currency of the economic environment in which it operates.
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less i Foreign currency transactions than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional currency of each entity using the exchange rate prevailing at then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss is recognised the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities outstanding at year end are converted at year-end rates.
The resulting exchange directly in profit or loss.
differences are recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
ii Translation of financial statements If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group companies whose functional currency is in a currency other than Glencore reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted the U. S. dollar are translated into U. S. dollars using year-end exchange rates, while their statements of income are translated using for additional information obtained during the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date average rates of exchange for the year.
Translation adjustments are included as a separate component of shareholders equity and about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised have no consolidated statement of income impact to the extent that no disposal of the foreign operation has occurred.
intragroup balance is, in substance, part of the Groups net investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are taken to the currency translation reserve.
Cumulative translation differences are recycled from equity and recognised as income Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net or expense on disposal of the operation to which they relate.
assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on a  and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the transaction basis.
Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in foreign operation and are translated at the closing rate.
Borrowing costs Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of interests in Associates and joint operations.
Any goodwill arising Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying from such purchases is included within the carrying amount of the investment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter.
Any assets in which case they are capitalised up to the date when the qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
excess of Glencores share of the net fair value of the Associates identifiable net assets over the cost of the investment is included in the consolidated statement of income in the period of the purchase.
Retirement benefits Glencore operates various pension schemes in accordance with local requirements and practices of the respective countries.
Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups The annual costs for defined contribution plans that are funded by payments to separate trustee administered funds or insurance Non-current assets and assets and liabilities included in disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be companies equal the contributions that are required under the plans and accounted for as an expense.
recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, they are available for immediate disposal and the sale is highly probable.
Non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less Glencore uses the Projected Unit Credit Actuarial method to determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations and the costs to sell.
related current service cost and, where applicable, past service cost.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Revenue recognition The cost of providing pensions is charged to the consolidated statement of income so as to recognise current and past service costs, Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and in some instances the goods are sold on Cost and Freight CFR or Cost, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on plan assets.
Insurance and Freight CIF Incoterms.
When goods are sold on a CFR or CIF basis, the Group is responsible for providing these Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and will not be reclassified to the consolidated services shipping and insurance to the customer, sometimes after the date at which Glencore has lost control of the goods.
The retirement benefit obligation asset recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position Revenue is recognised when the performance obligations have been satisfied, which is once control of the goods and or services represents the actual deficit or surplus in Glencores defined benefit plans.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited has transferred from Glencore to the buyer.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in the contract with a customer to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The same recognition and presentation principles apply to revenues to the plans.
arising from physical settlement of forward sale contracts that do not meet the own use exemption.
Glencore also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain employees in Canada, South Africa and the United States.
Revenue related to the sale of goods is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit pension plans, however are unfunded.
is typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the destination port or the customers premises and the buyer has gained control through their ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all the benefits from the asset.
Where the sale of goods is connected with an Share-based payments agreement to repurchase goods at a later date, revenue is recognised when the repurchase terms are at prevailing market prices, i Equity-settled share-based payments the goods repurchased are readily available in the market, and the buyer gained control of the goods originally sold to them.
Should Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the awards based on the market value of the shares at it be determined that control has not transferred or the buyer does not have the ability to benefit substantially from ownership of the the grant date.
Fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The fair value is charged to the consolidated asset, revenue is not recognised and any proceeds received are accounted for as a financing arrangement.
For certain commodities, statement of income and credited to retained earnings on a straight-line basis over the period the estimated awards are expected the sales price is determined on a provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price is subject to movements in market to vest.
prices up to the date of final pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial booking provisionally priced sales.
The revenue At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a commodity derivative.
the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair value are recognised consolidated statement of income such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment as an adjustment to revenue.
Where a by-product is not regarded as significant, ii Cash-settled share-based payments revenue may be credited against cost of goods sold.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is initially recognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non-market-based performance conditions.
Subsequently, at each reporting period until Revenue related to the provision of shipping and insurance related activities is recognised over time as the service is rendered.
the liability is settled, it is remeasured to fair value with any changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
The initial deferred revenue amount is Income taxes unwound and revenue is recognised in the consolidated statement of income as and when Glencore physically delivers the metal Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes.
Current taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable based on and loses control of it.
Where these prepayments are in excess of one year and contain a significant financing component, the enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the period end on expected current taxable income, and any adjustment to tax payable amount of the deferred revenue is adjusted for the effects of the time value of money.
Glencore applies the practical expedient in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxes are recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and to not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of time value of money if the period between delivery and the liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable income, using enacted respective payment is one year or less.
or substantively enacted income tax rates which are expected to be effective at the time of reversal of the underlying temporary difference.
Deferred tax assets and unused tax losses are only recognised to the extent that their recoverability is probable.
Deferred Royalty, interest and dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment has been established, it is probable that the tax assets are reviewed at reporting period end and amended to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related benefit will economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of income can be measured reliably.
Royalty revenue is recognised on an be realised.
To the extent that a deferred tax asset not previously recognised subsequently fulfils the criteria for recognition, an asset accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference is then recognised.
to the principal outstanding and the applicable effective interest rate.
148 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 14914 9 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has both the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis.
The tax effect of certain temporary differences is not recognised principally with respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability other than those arising in a business combination or in a manner that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit and temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and Associates to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as extraction rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in the consolidated statement of income, except when they relate to items that are recognised outside the consolidated statement of income whether in other comprehensive income or directly in equity or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business combination.
Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies taxes are treated as taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics of an income tax, including being imposed and determined in accordance with regulations established by the respective governments taxation authority and the amount payable is based on taxable income rather than physical quantities produced or as a percentage of revenues after adjustment for temporary differences.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described above for other forms of taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions and included in cost of goods sold.
Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax laws.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges, taking into account the range of possible outcomes.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, including directly attributable costs required to bring the asset to the location or to a condition necessary for operation and the direct cost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific asset concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associated mine LOM, field or lease.
Depreciation commences when the asset is available for use.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated amortised on a units of production UOP and or straight-line basis as follows: Buildings 10 45 years Freehold land not depreciated Plant and equipment 3 30 years UOP Mineral and petroleum rights UOP Deferred mining costs UOP Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
All other leases are classified as operating leases, the expenditures for which are recognised in the statement of income on a straightline basis over the lease term.
i Mineral and petroleum rights Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights together Mineral and petroleum rights which can be reasonably valued, are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Mineral and petroleum rights for which values cannot be reasonably determined are not recognised.
Exploitable Mineral and petroleum rights are amortised using the UOP basis over the commercially recoverable reserves and, in certain circumstances, other mineral resources.
Mineral resources are included in amortisation calculations where there is a high degree of confidence that they will be extracted in an economic manner.
ii Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred in the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral and petroleum resources and includes costs such as exploration and production licences, researching and analysing historical exploration data, exploratory drilling, trenching, sampling and the costs of pre-feasibility studies.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other than that acquired from another entity, is charged to the consolidated statement of income as incurred except when the expenditure is expected to be recouped from future exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned to continue with active and significant operations in relation to the area, or at the reporting period end, the activity has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves, in which case the expenditure is capitalised.
As the intangible component i. e. licences represents an insignificant and indistinguishable portion of the overall expected tangible amount to be incurred and recouped from future exploitation, these costs along with other capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure are recorded as a component of property, plant and equipment.
Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are recognised at their fair value at acquisition.
As the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure asset is not available for use, it is not depreciated.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for indications of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, an assessment is performed for each area of interest or at the CGU level.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is charged to the consolidated statement of income.
Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific exploration area are charged to the consolidated statement of income.
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
1 15 50 0 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has both Development expenditure the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis.
The tax effect of certain When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and such proposed development receives the appropriate approvals, temporary differences is not recognised principally with respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability other than those capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred to construction in progress, a component within the plant and arising in a business combination or in a manner that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit and temporary differences equipment asset sub-category.
All subsequent development expenditure is similarly capitalised, provided commercial viability relating to investments in subsidiaries and Associates to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of the reversal of the conditions continue to be satisfied.
Proceeds from the sale of product extracted during the development phase are netted against temporary difference and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is provided development expenditure.
Upon completion of development and commencement of production, capitalised development costs in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as extraction rights that, in general, are further transferred, as required, to the appropriate plant and equipment asset category and depreciated using the unit of are not eligible for income tax allowances.
production method UOP or straight-line basis.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in the consolidated statement of income, except when they relate iii Deferred mining costs to items that are recognised outside the consolidated statement of income whether in other comprehensive income or directly in Mainly comprises certain capitalised costs related to underground mining as well as pre-production and in-production stripping equity or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business combination.
Deferred mining costs are amortised using the UOP basis over the life of the ore body to which those costs relate.
Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies taxes are treated as taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics of an income tax, including being imposed and determined in accordance with regulations established by the respective governments Deferred stripping costs taxation authority and the amount payable is based on taxable income rather than physical quantities produced or as a percentage Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of revenues after adjustment for temporary differences.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided on the same of constructing the mine or pit and subsequently amortised over the life of the mine or pit on a UOP basis.
basis as described above for other forms of taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria In-production stripping costs related to accessing an identifiable component of the ore body to realise benefits in the form of are recognised as current provisions and included in cost of goods sold.
improved access to ore to be mined in the future stripping activity asset, are capitalised within deferred mining costs provided Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
Inherent all the following conditions are met: uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax laws.
For those matters a it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the stripping activity will be realised: where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges, taking into account the range of possible outcomes.
b the component of the ore body for which access has been improved can be identified: and c the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with the improved access can be reliably measured.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, If all of the criteria are not met, the production stripping costs are charged to the consolidated statement of income as they including directly attributable costs required to bring the asset to the location or to a condition necessary for operation and the are incurred.
direct cost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The stripping activity asset is subsequently depreciated on a UOP basis over the life of the identified component of the ore body Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific asset that became more accessible as a result of the stripping activity and is then stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associated mine LOM, field or lease.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are iv Biological assets depreciated amortised on a units of production UOP and or straight-line basis as follows: Biological assets are carried at their fair value less estimated selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are included in the consolidated statement of income in the period in which they arise.
Buildings 10 45 years Freehold land not depreciated Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning Plant and equipment 3 30 years UOP Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, Mineral and petroleum rights UOP discounted using a risk-free rate specific to the liability and the currency in which they are denominated to their net present value, Deferred mining costs UOP are provided for and capitalised at the time such an obligation arises.
The costs are charged to the consolidated statement of income over the life of the operation through depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are capitalised Costs for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided for at their and amortised over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
net present values and charged to the consolidated statement of income as extraction progresses.
Changes in the estimated timing of the rehabilitation or changes to the estimated future costs are accounted for prospectively by recognising an adjustment to the rehabilitation liability and a corresponding adjustment to the asset to which it relates, provided i Mineral and petroleum rights a reduction, if any, in the provision is not greater than the depreciated capitalised cost of the related asset, in which case the Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights together Mineral and petroleum rights which can be reasonably valued, capitalised cost is reduced to Nil and the remaining adjustment recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
In the case are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Mineral and petroleum rights for which values cannot be reasonably of closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of income.
Mineral resources are included in amortisation Intangible assets calculations where there is a high degree of confidence that they will be extracted in an economic manner.
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business ii Exploration and evaluation expenditure combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred in the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral and petroleum accumulated amortisation calculated on a straight-line basis over their useful lives and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
resources and includes costs such as exploration and production licences, researching and analysing historical exploration data, Internally generated intangibles are not capitalised.
Instead, the related expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement exploratory drilling, trenching, sampling and the costs of pre-feasibility studies.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of income and other comprehensive income in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
of interest, other than that acquired from another entity, is charged to the consolidated statement of income as incurred except when the expenditure is expected to be recouped from future exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned to continue with Identifiable intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful life.
The amortisation active and significant operations in relation to the area, or at the reporting period end, the activity has not reached a stage which method and period are reviewed annually and impairment testing is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying amount permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves, in which case the expenditure is capitalised.
Other than goodwill which is not depreciated, Glencore has no identifiable intangible assets with an As the intangible component i. e. licences represents an insignificant and indistinguishable portion of the overall expected tangible indefinite life.
amount to be incurred and recouped from future exploitation, these costs along with other capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure are recorded as a component of property, plant and equipment.
150 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 151 151 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The major categories of intangibles are amortised on a straight-line basis as follows: Port allocation rights 30 40 years Licences, trademarks and software 3 20 years Customer relationships 5 years Acquired offtake arrangements 5 10 years Goodwill impairment testing For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management monitors and manages the goodwill.
In assessing whether an impairment is required, the carrying value of the CGU is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD and its value in use VIU.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of income.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
Other investments Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, are recorded at fair value.
Glencore designated these investments that are not held for trading as at fair value through other comprehensive income.
As a result, changes in fair value are recorded in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income.
Dividends from these investments are recognised in the consolidated statement of income, unless the dividend represents a recovery of part of the cost of the equity investment.
Impairment or impairment reversals Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of asset values which is used as a source of information to assess for any indications of impairment or impairment reversal.
Formal impairment tests are carried out, at least annually, for cash-generating units containing goodwill and for all other non-current assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
A formal impairment or reversal test involves determining whether the carrying amounts are in excess or below, as the case may be of their recoverable amounts.
An assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the CGU level.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated statement of income to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
For those assets which were impaired in prior periods, if their recoverable amount exceeds their carrying amount, an impairment reversal is recorded in the consolidated statement of income to reflect the asset at the higher amount to the extent the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying value of the asset that would have been determined had no impairment been recognised.
Goodwill impairments cannot be subsequently reversed.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligation legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that can be reliably estimated will be required to settle the liability.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation, including interpretation of specific laws and likelihood of settlement.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows when the effect of the time value of money is material.
Onerous contracts An onerous contract is considered to exist where Glencore has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contract.
Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
Unfavourable contracts An unfavourable contract is considered to exist when Glencore, in a business combination, acquires a contract under which the terms of the contract require Glencore to sell or purchase products or services on terms which are economically unfavourable compared to current market terms at the time of the business combination.
Unfavourable contracts are recognised at the present value of the economic loss and amortised into the statement of income over the term of the contract.
1 152 52 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The major categories of intangibles are amortised on a straight-line basis as follows: Inventories The vast majority of inventories attributable to the marketing activities marketing inventories are valued at fair value less costs Port allocation rights 30 40 years of disposal with the remainder valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair Licences, trademarks and software 3 20 years value are reported in cost of goods sold.
Customer relationships 5 years Inventories held by the industrial activities production inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost Acquired offtake arrangements 5 10 years is determined using the first-in-first-out FIFO or the weighted average method and comprises material costs, labour costs and Goodwill impairment testing allocated production related overhead costs.
Where the production process results in more than one product being produced For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit joint products, cost is allocated between the various products according to the ratio of contribution of these metals to gross sales from the synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management monitors and manages the revenue.
Financing and storage costs related to inventory are expensed as incurred.
If the recoverable amount Non-financial instruments physical advances or prepayments of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any The Group enters into physical advances and prepayment agreements with certain suppliers and customers.
When such advances goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the and prepayments are primarily settled in cash or another financial asset, they are classified as financial instruments see below.
An impairment loss recognised When settlement is satisfied primarily through physical delivery or receipt of an underlying product they are classified as for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
Other investments Financial instruments Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, are recorded at fair value.
Glencore designated these investments that Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position when the Group are not held for trading as at fair value through other comprehensive income.
As a result, changes in fair value are recorded in the becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
consolidated statement of other comprehensive income.
Dividends from these investments are recognised in the consolidated Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at amortised cost, at fair value through other comprehensive income FVTOCI statement of income, unless the dividend represents a recovery of part of the cost of the equity investment.
or at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL depending upon the business model for managing the financial assets and the nature of the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value on the trade Impairment or impairment reversals date, including, in the case of instruments not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of asset values which is used as a source of information to assess for any Subsequently, other investments, provisionally priced trade receivables and derivatives are carried at fair value and trade receivables indications of impairment or impairment reversal.
Formal impairment tests are carried out, at least annually, for cash-generating that do not contain provisional price features, loans and other receivables are carried at amortised cost adjusted for any loss allowance.
units containing goodwill and for all other non-current assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Financial liabilities, other than derivatives and those containing provisional price features, are initially recognised at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as appropriate and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Financial liabilities that A formal impairment or reversal test involves determining whether the carrying amounts are in excess or below, as the case may be contain provisional pricing features and derivatives are carried at FVTPL.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do not generate cash flows independent i Impairment of financial assets of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the CGU level.
A loss allowance for expected credit losses is determined for all financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, at the end of each reporting period.
The expected credit loss recognised represents a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses over the expected If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated statement life of the financial instrument.
of income to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
The Group applies the simplified approach to measure the loss allowance for trade receivables classified at amortised cost, using For those assets which were impaired in prior periods, if their recoverable amount exceeds their carrying amount, an impairment the lifetime expected loss provision.
The expected credit losses on these financial assets is estimated using a provision matrix by reversal is recorded in the consolidated statement of income to reflect the asset at the higher amount to the extent the increased reference to past default experience and an equivalent credit rating, adjusted as appropriate for current observable data and carrying amount does not exceed the carrying value of the asset that would have been determined had no impairment forward-looking information.
For all other financial assets at amortised cost, the Group recognises lifetime expected credit losses when there has been a significant Provisions increase in credit risk since initial recognition, which is determined by: Provisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligation legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable A review of overdue amounts, that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that can be reliably estimated will be required to settle the liability.
Comparing the risk of default at the reporting date and at the date of initial recognition, and The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation, including interpretation of specific laws and An assessment of relevant historical and forward-looking quantitative and qualitative information.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying For those balances that are beyond 30 days overdue it is presumed to be an indicator of a significant increase in credit risk.
amount is the present value of those cash flows when the effect of the time value of money is material.
If the credit risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss Onerous contracts allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-months expected credit loss, which comprises the expected An onerous contract is considered to exist where Glencore has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the lifetime loss from the instrument were a default to occur within 12 months of the reporting date.
obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contract.
The Group considers an event of default has materialised and the financial asset is credit impaired when information developed internally or obtained from external sources indicates that the debtor is unlikely to pay the Group without taking into account any Unfavourable contracts collateral held by the Group or if the financial asset is more than 90 days past due unless the Group has reasonable and supportable An unfavourable contract is considered to exist when Glencore, in a business combination, acquires a contract under which information to demonstrate that a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate.
The Group writes off a financial asset when the terms of the contract require Glencore to sell or purchase products or services on terms which are economically unfavourable there is information indicating that the debtor is in severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
compared to current market terms at the time of the business combination.
Unfavourable contracts are recognised at the ii Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities present value of the economic loss and amortised into the statement of income over the term of the contract.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another party.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.
On derecognition of a financial asset financial liability in its entirety, the difference between the carrying amount of the financial asset financial liability and the sum of the consideration received and receivable paid and payable is recognised in profit and loss.
On derecognition of equity investments designated and measured at FVTOCI, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified directly to retained earnings.
152 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 153153 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Own shares The cost of purchases of own shares is deducted from equity.
Where they are purchased, issued to employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfers to employees are recognised in equity.
Derivatives and hedging activities Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell or purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exemption, are initially recognised at fair value when Glencore becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices, dealer price quotations or using models and other valuation techniques, the key inputs for which include current market and contractual prices for the underlying instrument, time to expiry, yield curves, volatility of the underlying instrument and counterparty risk.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are recognised in cost of goods sold.
Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are either i a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, or ii a Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cash flows to be received or paid relating to a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable transaction.
At the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, Glencore documents whether the hedging instrument is effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, which is when the hedging relationship meets the qualifying hedge effectiveness requirements.
Glencore discontinues hedge accounting when the qualifying criteria for the hedged relationship is no longer met.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair Value Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair value of the hedged item in the consolidated statement of income.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge reserve in shareholders equity.
The deferred amount is then released to the consolidated statement of income in the same periods during which the hedged transaction affects the consolidated statement of income.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the consolidated statement of income when it occurs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in shareholders equity and is recognised in the consolidated statement of income when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
However, if a forecast or committed transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the consolidated statement of income.
A derivative may be embedded in a non-derivative host contract such as provisionally priced sales and purchases.
Such combinations are known as hybrid instruments.
If a hybrid contract contains a host that is a financial asset within the scope of IFRS 9, then the relevant classification and measurement requirements are applied to the entire contract at the date of initial recognition.
Should the host contract not be a financial asset within the scope of IFRS 9, the embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a standalone derivative.
Where the embedded derivative is separated, the host contract is accounted for in accordance with its relevant accounting policy, unless the entire instrument is designated at FVTPL in accordance with IFRS 9.
154 154 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Segment information Own shares Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in three core business segments Metals and minerals, Energy products The cost of purchases of own shares is deducted from equity.
Where they are purchased, issued to employees or sold, no gain or and Agricultural products, with each business segment responsible for the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
Any proceeds investment activities of their respective products and reflecting the structure used by Glencores management to assess the received on disposal of the shares or transfers to employees are recognised in equity.
The business segments contributions to the Group are primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from physical Derivatives and hedging activities Marketing activities net sale and purchase of physical commodities, provision of marketing and related value-add services and Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell or purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exemption, the margin earned from Industrial asset activities net resulting from the sale of physical commodities over the cost of production are initially recognised at fair value when Glencore becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are and or cost of sales and comprise the following underlying key commodities: subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices, dealer price quotations or using models and other valuation techniques, the key inputs for which include current market Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, ferroalloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, refining, and contractual prices for the underlying instrument, time to expiry, yield curves, volatility of the underlying instrument and mining, processing and storage related operations of the relevant commodities counterparty risk.
Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and metallurgical coal, including investments in coal mining and oil production Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities, and mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are recognised in cost of goods sold.
Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, canola, barley, rice, oil seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported by Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are either i a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised investments in storage, handling, processing and port facilities asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, or ii a Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cash flows to be received or paid Corporate and other: consolidated statement of income amount represents unallocated Group related expenses including variable relating to a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable transaction.
Statement of financial position amounts represent Group related balances.
At the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, Glencore documents whether the hedging instrument is effective in The financial performance of the Metals and minerals and Energy products segments is principally evaluated by management offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, which is when the hedging with reference to Adjusted EBIT EBITDA.
Adjusted EBIT is the net result of segmental revenue revenue including Proportionate relationship meets the qualifying hedge effectiveness requirements.
adjustments as defined in the Alternative performance measure section less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative Glencore discontinues hedge accounting when the qualifying criteria for the hedged relationship is no longer met.
expenses plus share of income from associates and joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share of Adjusted EBIT of relevant material associates and joint ventures, which are accounted for internally by means of proportionate consolidation, excluding A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair Value Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair value significant items.
Adjusted EBITDA consists of Adjusted EBIT plus depreciation and amortisation, including the related Proportionate of the hedged item in the consolidated statement of income.
In addition, Volcan, while a subsidiary of the Group, is accounted for under the equity method for internal reporting A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge reserve in and analysis due to the relatively low economic ownership held by the Group.
The deferred amount is then released to the consolidated statement of income in the same periods during During the year, the Glencore Agri joint venture continued its transition to a fully independent stand-alone group through bedding which the hedged transaction affects the consolidated statement of income.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the consolidated down of its independent governance structure and the firm establishment of its own stand-alone capital structure and credit statement of income when it occurs.
profile, including the removal of all, but one see note 10 of the Groups legacy guarantee arrangements.
As a result of its increasing When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative independence and Glencores management evaluating the segments financial performance on a net return basis as opposed to an gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in shareholders equity and is recognised in the consolidated statement of income Adjusted EBITDA basis, the financial results of Glencore Agri are no longer adjusted and presented on a proportionate consolidation when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
However, if a forecast basis, but rather are presented on a basis consistent with its underlying IFRS treatment equity accounting.
Applicable comparative or committed transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately segment balances have been adjusted to reflect these changes.
transferred to the consolidated statement of income.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in note 1 with the exception of relevant A derivative may be embedded in a non-derivative host contract such as provisionally priced sales and purchases.
Such material associates, the Collahuasi joint venture and Volcan.
Under IFRS 11, Glencores investments in the Antamina copper zinc combinations are known as hybrid instruments.
If a hybrid contract contains a host that is a financial asset within the scope of IFRS 9, mine 34% owned and the Cerrejn coal mine 33% owned are considered to be associates as they are not subject to joint control then the relevant classification and measurement requirements are applied to the entire contract at the date of initial recognition.
and the Collahuasi copper mine 44% owned is considered to be a joint venture.
Associates and joint ventures are required to be Should the host contract not be a financial asset within the scope of IFRS 9, the embedded derivative is separated from the host accounted for in Glencores financial statements under the equity method.
For internal reporting and analysis, Glencore evaluates contract and accounted for as a standalone derivative.
Where the embedded derivative is separated, the host contract is accounted the performance of these investments under the proportionate consolidation method, reflecting Glencores proportionate share for in accordance with its relevant accounting policy, unless the entire instrument is designated at FVTPL in accordance with IFRS 9. of the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities of the investments.
For internal reporting and analysis, management evaluates the performance of Volcan under the equity method, reflecting the Groups relatively low 23.3% economic ownership in this fully ring-fenced listed entity, with its stand-alone, independent and separate capital structure.
The balances as presented for internal reporting purposes are reconciled to Glencores statutory disclosures in the following tables and or in the Alternative performance measures section.
154 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 15515 5 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segment information continued Glencore accounts for intra-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i. e. at arms length commercial terms.
Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate 2018 US$ million minerals products products and other Total 1 Revenue Marketing activities 51,980 126,348 178,328 Revenue Industrial activities 31,385 12,660 24 44,069 Revenue 83,365 139,008 24 222,397 2 Proportionate adjustment revenue 1,805 838 2,643 Revenue reported measure 81,560 138,170 24 219,754 Marketing activities Adjusted EBITDA 1,767 795 21 91 2,492 Depreciation and amortisation 25 53 78 Adjusted EBIT 1,742 742 21 91 2,414 Industrial activities Adjusted EBITDA 8,478 5,312 515 13,275 Depreciation and amortisation 4,316 1,913 18 6,247 2 Proportionate adjustment depreciation 109 190 299 Adjusted EBIT 4,053 3,209 533 6,729 Total Adjusted EBITDA 10,245 6,107 21 606 15,767 Total depreciation and amortisation 4,341 1,966 18 6,325 Total depreciation proportionate adjustment 109 190 299 Total Adjusted EBIT 5,795 3,951 21 624 9,143 2,3 Share of associates significant items 40 4 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 237 Loss on disposals and investments 139 Other expense net 764 Impairments 1,643 Interest expense net 1,514 Income tax expense 2,063 2 Proportionate adjustment net finance, income tax expense and non-controlling interest 601 Income for the year 2,616 1 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities.
Metals and minerals segment: $20,291 million and Energy products segment $3,285 million.
2 Refer to APMs section for definition.
3 Share of associates significant items comprise Glencores share of significant charges booked directly by various associates, primarily Century and Glencore Agri.
4 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions, i. e. before ultimate sale to a third party.
For Glencore, such adjustments arise on the sale of product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial to Marketing operations.
Management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the sales were to third parties.
1 156 56 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segment information continued Glencore accounts for intra-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i. e. at arms Agricultural products Total Metals and Energy Corporate length commercial terms.
1 1 2017 US$ million minerals products Restated and other Restated Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate 2 Revenue Marketing activities 51,017 118,199 169,216 2018 US$ million minerals products products and other Total Revenue Industrial activities 29,448 10,067 37 39,552 1 Revenue Marketing activities 51,980 126,348 178,328 Revenue 80,465 128,266 37 208,768 Revenue Industrial activities 31,385 12,660 24 44,069 3 Proportionate adjustment revenue 2,502 790 3,292 Revenue 83,365 139,008 24 222,397 Revenue reported measure 77,963 127,476 37 205,476 2 Proportionate adjustment revenue 1,805 838 2,643 Revenue reported measure 81,560 138,170 24 219,754 Marketing activities Adjusted EBITDA 2,029 1,054 99 175 3,007 Marketing activities Depreciation and amortisation 24 64 88 Adjusted EBITDA 1,767 795 21 91 2,492 Adjusted EBIT 2,005 990 99 175 2,919 Depreciation and amortisation 25 53 78 Adjusted EBIT 1,742 742 21 91 2,414 Industrial activities Adjusted EBITDA 8,281 3,599 342 11,538 Industrial activities Depreciation and amortisation 3,274 1,998 38 5,310 Adjusted EBITDA 8,478 5,312 515 13,275 3 Proportionate adjustment depreciation 511 177 688 Depreciation and amortisation 4,316 1,913 18 6,247 Adjusted EBIT 4,496 1,424 380 5,540 2 Proportionate adjustment depreciation 109 190 299 Adjusted EBIT 4,053 3,209 533 6,729 Total Adjusted EBITDA 10,310 4,653 99 517 14,545 Total depreciation and amortisation 3,298 2,062 38 5,398 Total Adjusted EBITDA 10,245 6,107 21 606 15,767 Total depreciation proportionate adjustment 511 177 688 Total depreciation and amortisation 4,341 1,966 18 6,325 Total Adjusted EBIT 6,501 2,414 99 555 8,459 Total depreciation proportionate adjustment 109 190 299 Total Adjusted EBIT 5,795 3,951 21 624 9,143 3,4 Share of associates significant items 6 5 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 523 2,3 Share of associates significant items 40 6 Mark-to-market valuation on certain coal hedging contracts 225 4 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 237 Gain on disposals and investments 1,309 Loss on disposals and investments 139 Other income net 34 Other expense net 764 Impairments 628 Impairments 1,643 Interest expense net 1,451 Interest expense net 1,514 Income tax expense 1,759 Income tax expense 2,063 3 Proportionate adjustment net finance and income tax expense 498 2 Proportionate adjustment net finance, income tax expense and non-controlling interest 601 Income for the year 5,162 Income for the year 2,616 1 Adjusted for presenting Glencore Agri on a basis consistent with its underlying IFRS treatment equity accounting.
1 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities.
Metals and minerals segment: $20,291 million and Energy products 2 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities.
Metals and minerals segment: $19,648 million and Energy products segment $3,285 million.
3 Refer to APMs section for definition.
4 Share of associates significant items comprise Glencores share of significant charges booked directly by various associates, primarily Century.
For Glencore, such adjustments 5 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions, i. e. before ultimate sale to a third party.
Management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, arise on the sale of product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial to Marketing operations.
as if the sales were to third parties.
6 Represents an accounting measurement mismatch between the fair value of coal derivative positions in respect of portfolio risk management hedging activities initiated in Q2 2016 and the anticipated future revenue to be generated from the sale of future unsold coal production.
These transactions were not able to be designated as hedging instruments under IFRS, which would have allowed for the deferment of any income statement effect until performance of the underlying future sale transactions.
The fair value movements in the derivative portfolio was offset against future revenue in the segment information as the related sales of production were realised.
156 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1571 57 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segment information continued Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate 2018 US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 28,178 14,640 596 42,222 Current liabilities 12,873 18,268 661 31,802 Allocatable current capital employed 15,305 3,628 1,257 10,420 Property, plant and equipment 34,864 21,503 403 56,770 Intangible assets 3,633 3,322 16 6,971 Investments in associates and other investments 8,125 4,667 3,184 15,976 Non-current advances and loans 1,045 1,510 2,555 Inventories 353 353 Allocatable non-current capital employed 48,020 31,002 3,184 419 82,625 1 Other assets 3,825 3,825 2 Other liabilities 51,487 51,487 Total net assets 63,325 27,374 3,184 48,500 45,383 Capital expenditure Marketing activities 34 55 89 Capital expenditure Industrial activities 3,996 1,043 38 5,077 Capital expenditure 4,030 1,098 38 5,166 3 Proportionate adjustment capital expenditure 308 81 389 Capital expenditure reported measure 3,722 1,017 38 4,777 1 Other assets include non-current financial assets, deferred tax assets and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions and non-current financial liabilities.
Agricultural products Total Metals and Energy Corporate 1 1 2017 US$ million minerals products Restated and other Restated Current assets 32,642 15,464 936 47,170 Current liabilities 16,603 17,676 574 34,853 Allocatable current capital employed 16,039 2,212 1,510 12,317 Property, plant and equipment 37,030 19,607 409 57,046 Intangible assets 3,643 3,127 17 6,787 Investments in associates and other investments 8,767 4,868 3,321 16,956 Non-current advances and loans 1,128 1,773 75 2,976 Inventory 369 369 Allocatable non-current capital employed 50,937 29,375 3,321 501 84,134 2 Other assets 4,289 4,289 3 Other liabilities 51,285 51,285 Total net assets 66,976 27,163 3,321 48,005 49,455 Capital expenditure Marketing activities 17 79 96 Capital expenditure Industrial activities 3,232 742 46 4,020 Capital expenditure 3,249 821 46 4,116 4 Proportionate adjustment capital expenditure 439 54 493 Capital expenditure reported measure 2,810 767 46 3,623 1 Adjusted for presenting Glencore Agri on a basis consistent with its underlying IFRS treatment equity accounting.
2 Other assets include deferred tax assets, cash and cash equivalents and assets held for sale.
3 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions, non-current financial liabilities and liabilities held for sale.
4 Refer to APMs section for definition.
15 158 8 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segment information continued Geographical information Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate 2018 US$ million minerals products products and other Total US$ million 2018 2017 1 Current assets 28,178 14,640 596 42,222 Revenue from third parties Current liabilities 12,873 18,268 661 31,802 The Americas 36,939 33,930 Allocatable current capital employed 15,305 3,628 1,257 10,420 Europe 75,991 72,459 Property, plant and equipment 34,864 21,503 403 56,770 Asia 94,643 82,694 Intangible assets 3,633 3,322 16 6,971 Africa 5,240 4,800 Investments in associates and other investments 8,125 4,667 3,184 15,976 Oceania 6,941 11,593 Non-current advances and loans 1,045 1,510 2,555 219,754 205,476 2 Inventories 353 353 Non-current assets Allocatable non-current capital employed 48,020 31,002 3,184 419 82,625 The Americas 23,491 23,121 1 Other assets 3,825 3,825 Europe 10,824 10,917 2 Other liabilities 51,487 51,487 Asia 4,453 4,605 Total net assets 63,325 27,374 3,184 48,500 45,383 Africa 16,921 19,604 Oceania 22,314 19,953 Capital expenditure Marketing activities 34 55 89 78,003 78,200 Capital expenditure Industrial activities 3,996 1,043 38 5,077 1 Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty, however this may not necessarily be the country of the counterpartys Capital expenditure 4,030 1,098 38 5,166 ultimate parent and or final destination of product.
3 2 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, advances and loans, other financial assets and deferred tax assets.
Non-current assets comprise assets Proportionate adjustment capital expenditure 308 81 389 in Australia of $20,500 million 2017: $18,353 million, in Peru of $10,596 million 2017: $10,721 million and the DRC of $7,272 million 2017: $8,166 million.
Capital expenditure reported measure 3,722 1,017 38 4,777 1 Other assets include non-current financial assets, deferred tax assets and cash and cash equivalents.
Revenue 3 Refer to APMs section for definition.
US$ million 2018 2017 Agricultural Sale of commodities 217,119 202,639 products Total Metals and Energy Corporate 1 1 Freight, storage and other services 2,635 2,837 2017 US$ million minerals products Restated and other Restated Total 219,754 205,476 Current assets 32,642 15,464 936 47,170 Current liabilities 16,603 17,676 574 34,853 Revenue is derived principally from the sale of commodities, recognised once the control of the goods has transferred from Glencore Allocatable current capital employed 16,039 2,212 1,510 12,317 to the buyer.
Revenue derived from freight, storage and other services is recognised over time as the service is rendered.
Revenue Property, plant and equipment 37,030 19,607 409 57,046 is measured based on consideration specified in the contract with the customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third Intangible assets 3,643 3,127 17 6,787 parties.
This is consistent with the revenue information disclosed for each reportable segment see note 2.
Investments in associates and other investments 8,767 4,868 3,321 16,956 Non-current advances and loans 1,128 1,773 75 2,976 Inventory 369 369 4.
Loss gain on disposals and investments Allocatable non-current capital employed 50,937 29,375 3,321 501 84,134 2 Other assets 4,289 4,289 US$ million 2018 2017 3 Other liabilities 51,285 51,285 Loss on sale of Mototolo 137 Total net assets 66,976 27,163 3,321 48,005 49,455 Gain on sale of HG Storage 674 Gain on sale of Zinc Africa 232 Capital expenditure Marketing activities 17 79 96 Gain on sale of other operations 15 173 Capital expenditure Industrial activities 3,232 742 46 4,020 1 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 17 230 Capital expenditure 3,249 821 46 4,116 Total 139 1,309 4 Proportionate adjustment capital expenditure 439 54 493 1 2017 primarily comprises the gain on sale of a royalty portfolio, see below.
Capital expenditure reported measure 2,810 767 46 3,623 1 Adjusted for presenting Glencore Agri on a basis consistent with its underlying IFRS treatment equity accounting.
Mototolo 2 Other assets include deferred tax assets, cash and cash equivalents and assets held for sale.
In November 2018, Glencore disposed of its 40% interest in the Mototolo joint venture, a Platinum mine in South Africa, resulting in 3 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions, non-current financial liabilities and liabilities held for sale.
a loss of $137 million, mainly on account of recycling foreign currency translation reserves to the statement of income see note 25.
HG Storage In December 2017, Glencore disposed of a 51% interest in HG Storage, its petroleum products and logistics business, resulting in a gain of $674 million, including remeasurement of the retained investment to its fair value see note 25.
Zinc Africa In August 2017, Glencore disposed of its African zinc operations Perkoa and Rosh Pinah, resulting in a gain of $232 million see note 25.
Other The gain on sale of other operations in 2017 arose primarily from the disposal of Eland Platinum, which resulted in a gain of $147 million, mainly on account of recycling foreign currency translation reserves to the statement of income see note 25.
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment Royalty portfolio In December 2017, Glencore disposed of a portfolio of selected base metals royalty assets for a combination of cash $150 million and a 50% interest in a new base metals streaming and royalties joint venture BaseCore Metals, resulting in a gain on disposal of $210 million see note 10.
158 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1591 59 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Other expense income net US$ million Notes 2018 2017 Net changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments 139 290 Net foreign exchange losses 58 80 Legal related costs 86 75 Closed site rehabilitation costs 8 Disposal of Rosneft stake related costs 325 KCC debt restructuring 33 248 Katanga OSC settlement and restatement 22 78 Acquisition related costs 25 142 Other expenses net 14 23 Total 764 34 Together with foreign exchange movements and mark-to-market movements on investments, other expense includes certain items that, due to the variable financial impact or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to these items, are reported separately from operating segment results.
Other expenses net includes, but is not limited to, restructuring and closure costs.
Net changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments Primarily relates to movements on interests in investments see note 10 and the ARM Coal non-discretionary dividend obligation see note 28 carried at fair value.
Legal related costs 2018 Regulatory investigation related costs of $24 million 2017: $Nil relate to legal and other third party costs incurred with respect to the open U. S. Department of Justice DOJ investigation see note 31.
During the year, the Strategic Fuel Fund Association of South Africa SFF brought various claims against Glencore Energy UK GENUK, a subsidiary of the Group, asserting that certain purchases of oil from SFF were invalid on the basis that SFF did not comply with its necessary approval and procurement processes and that GENUK is therefore not entitled to remove the inventory until the dispute is resolved.
Over the period, holding and related costs incurred in relation to this inventory amounted to $62 million.
2017 Glencore Ltd GLtd, the U. S. branch of Glencore AG, is a defendant in a case relating to an alumina refinery located in St. Croix, U. S. Virgin Islands which was acquired by Virgin Islands Alumina Corporation Vialco, a former affiliate of GLtd in 1989, and was subsequently disposed of by Vialco in 2005.
GLtd guaranteed the obligations of Vialco under the 1989 agreement which included certain environmental and other indemnities.
The complaint alleges that GLtd is contractually obligated to indemnify the previous owners for two environmental lawsuits arising out of ownership and operation of the refinery.
GLtd intends to vigorously defend the contention, but has nevertheless reserved $75 million for the possibility the plaintiff might prevail in the whole of its claims.
Closed site rehabilitation costs Relates to movements on restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning estimates related to sites that are no longer operational and are thus classified as closed sites see note 22.
Disposal of Rosneft stake related costs On 3 January 2017, Glencore and Qatar Investment Authority QIA entered into various agreements establishing a 50:50 consortium QHG to acquire 19.5% of OSJC Rosneft Oil Rosneft and enter into a 5 year offtake agreement with Rosneft.
In September 2018, the consortium arrangements were terminated with each member taking a direct ownership in Rosneft shares QIA received an 18.93% stake and Glencore retained a 0.57% equity stake commensurate with its original equity swap investment in 2017 see note 10.
Upon completion of the transaction, QHG had incurred funding and other costs and liabilities totalling $325 million for which Glencore has assumed liability pursuant to the termination arrangements with QIA.
QHG has a contractual right to recover these liabilities.
A claim has been made but it is being disputed by the counterparty.
Katanga OSC settlement and restatement In December 2018, Katanga Mining Limited Katanga, an 86.3% controlled subsidiary of the Group listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, entered into a settlement agreement with the Ontario Securities Commission OSC including a payment of $22 million.
The settlement agreement resolves an investigation by the OSC into certain of Katangas historic accounting practices, corporate governance and disclosure practices.
In 2017, an initial phase of the OSC investigation identified certain accounting matters affecting Katangas results reported in prior years, the impact of which was considered material for Katanga but not for the Group.
Consequently, for the years ended 31 December 2016 and earlier, Katanga restated its financial statements, however the cumulative impact was only corrected in the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Had the Groups 2017 results been restated, income before taxes for the 2016 year would have been lower by $10 million.
16 160 0 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Impairments US$ million Notes 2018 2017 US$ million Notes 2018 2017 1 Net changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments 139 290 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets net 8 9 1,452 378 Net foreign exchange losses 58 80 Investments 10 101 Legal related costs 86 75 Advances and loans non-current 11 191 149 2 Closed site rehabilitation costs 8 Total impairments 1,643 628 Disposal of Rosneft stake related costs 325 1 2017 includes impairment reversals of $243 million relating to Energy products as detailed below.
KCC debt restructuring 33 248 2 Impairments recognised during the year are allocated to Glencores operating segments as follows: Metals and minerals $1,551 million 2017: $318 million and Energy products $92 million 2017: $310million.
Katanga OSC settlement and restatement 22 78 Acquisition related costs 25 142 As part of a regular portfolio review, Glencore carries out an assessment of whether there is an indication of asset impairment Other expenses net 14 23 or whether a previously recorded impairment may no longer be required.
Total 764 34 The recoverable amounts of the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were measured based on fair value less costs Together with foreign exchange movements and mark-to-market movements on investments, other expense includes certain items of disposal FVLCD, determined by discounted cash flow techniques based on the most recent approved financial budgets and that, due to the variable financial impact or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to these items, are reported separately from three-year business plans, which are underpinned and supported by life of mine plans of the respective operations.
The valuation operating segment results.
models use the most recent reserve and resource estimates, relevant cost assumptions generally based on past experience and where possible, market forecasts of commodity price and foreign exchange rate assumptions discounted using operation specific Net changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments discount rates ranging from 7% 13.5% 2017: 7% 12%.
The valuations remain sensitive to price and a deterioration improvement Primarily relates to movements on interests in investments see note 10 and the ARM Coal non-discretionary dividend obligation in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairments reversals.
The determination of FVLCD uses Level 3 valuation techniques see note 28 carried at fair value.
As a result of the regular impairment assessment, the following significant impairment charges resulted: Legal related costs 2018 2018 Regulatory investigation related costs of $24 million 2017: $Nil relate to legal and other third party costs incurred with respect to the Property, plant and equipment open U. S. Department of Justice DOJ investigation see note 31.
As a result of delays in various expansion programs, cost increases owing to inflation, tax and other regulatory pressures and, in particular, a materially lower acid price assumption by-product from smelting, the Mopani copper operations in Zambia Metals During the year, the Strategic Fuel Fund Association of South Africa SFF brought various claims against Glencore Energy UK and minerals segment were impaired by $803 million, to its estimated recoverable amount of $1,427 million.
The valuation remains GENUK, a subsidiary of the Group, asserting that certain purchases of oil from SFF were invalid on the basis that SFF did not comply sensitive to price and a further deterioration in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairment.
The operation specific with its necessary approval and procurement processes and that GENUK is therefore not entitled to remove the inventory until discount rate used in the valuation was 11.1%.
The short to long-term copper and cobalt price assumptions were $6,500 mt and the dispute is resolved.
$27.22 lb, respectively, and acid price assumptions were $220 mt for 2019 and 2020 and $50 mt over the remaining life of mine.
2017 Should the copper, cobalt and acid price assumptions fall by 10%, a further $390 million of impairment would be recognised.
In Glencore Ltd GLtd, the U. S. branch of Glencore AG, is a defendant in a case relating to an alumina refinery located in St. Croix, addition, should operating costs rise by 5% as a result of further operational challenges and delays, a further $165 million of U. S. Virgin Islands which was acquired by Virgin Islands Alumina Corporation Vialco, a former affiliate of GLtd in 1989, and was impairment would be recognised.
subsequently disposed of by Vialco in 2005.
GLtd guaranteed the obligations of Vialco under the 1989 agreement which included In Q4 2018, a significant downward revision in the amount and timing of copper oxide reserves at our Mutanda copper operations certain environmental and other indemnities.
The complaint alleges that GLtd is contractually obligated to indemnify the previous in the DRC Metals and minerals segment was highlighted, which lowers near term forecast annual copper production.
In addition, owners for two environmental lawsuits arising out of ownership and operation of the refinery.
GLtd intends to vigorously defend the significant increased costs and elevated political risk stemming from the introduction of the 2018 Mining Code, has reduced the contention, but has nevertheless reserved $75 million for the possibility the plaintiff might prevail in the whole of its claims.
the value of the base business, as well as reduced the value and probability of approving the development of new facilities to treat the sulphide reserves.
As a result of these changes, the Mutanda operations were impaired by $600 million, to its estimated Closed site rehabilitation costs recoverable amount of $3,006 million.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and adverse applications of the 2018 Mining Code.
Relates to movements on restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning estimates related to sites that are no longer operational A further deterioration in these assumptions may result in additional impairment.
The operation specific discount rate used in and are thus classified as closed sites see note 22. the valuation was 13.5%.
The short to long-term copper and cobalt price assumptions were $6,500 mt and $27.22 lb, respectively, and it was assumed that no super profits tax would be incurred.
Should the copper and cobalt price assumptions fall by 10% Disposal of Rosneft stake related costs and it be determined that super profits tax is due, a further impairment ranging between $479 million and $1,008 million would On 3 January 2017, Glencore and Qatar Investment Authority QIA entered into various agreements establishing a 50:50 consortium be recognised.
QHG to acquire 19.5% of OSJC Rosneft Oil Rosneft and enter into a 5 year offtake agreement with Rosneft.
In September 2018, the consortium arrangements were terminated with each member taking a direct ownership in Rosneft shares QIA received an 18.93% The balance of the impairment charges on property, plant and equipment none of which were individually material relate stake and Glencore retained a 0.57% equity stake commensurate with its original equity swap investment in 2017 see note 10.
Upon to specific assets where utilisation is no longer required or to projects no longer progressed due to changes in production and completion of the transaction, QHG had incurred funding and other costs and liabilities totalling $325 million for which Glencore has development plans.
As a result, the full carrying amount of these assets projects was impaired, with $49 million recognised in assumed liability pursuant to the termination arrangements with QIA.
A claim our Metals and minerals segment.
has been made but it is being disputed by the counterparty.
Advances and loans non-current Certain loans and physical advances were restructured over the period due to various non-performance factors, resulting in the Katanga OSC settlement and restatement following impairments being recognised: In December 2018, Katanga Mining Limited Katanga, an 86.3% controlled subsidiary of the Group listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, entered into a settlement agreement with the Ontario Securities Commission OSC including a payment of $22 million.
$92 million impairment of a loan provided under an Energy related financing arrangement Energy segment.
The estimated The settlement agreement resolves an investigation by the OSC into certain of Katangas historic accounting practices, corporate recoverable amount of the advance is $23 million.
$99 million impairment of a financial loan arrangement Metals and minerals segment.
The estimated recoverable amount In 2017, an initial phase of the OSC investigation identified certain accounting matters affecting Katangas results reported in of the loan is $155 million, see note 11. prior years, the impact of which was considered material for Katanga but not for the Group.
160 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 161 161 Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Impairments continued 2017 Property, plant and equipment Following a modest downward revision, compared to prior year, of the long-term oil price assumption used to determine the remaining recoverable value of the E&P assets, offset by a combination of improved pricing differentials for the Chad crude oil blend Doba and further cost savings, an overall impairment charge of $278 million was recognised in the Chad oil operations Energy products segment.
The remaining recoverable value of the Chad oil operations was $1,221 million.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and further deterioration or improvement in the pricing outlook may result in additional or reversal of impairment.
The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions used in the valuation were $65 $70 per barrel and should these decrease or increase by 10%, a further $535 million of impairment or reversal would be recognised.
In January 2018, a farm-down agreement to divest a 50% interest in the Bolongo licence in Cameroon was signed.
As a result, the remaining recoverable value of the retained 37.5% working interest was impaired by $81 million, to its recoverable value of $142 million.
The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions used in the valuation were $65 $70 per barrel and should these decrease or increase by 10%, a further $13 million of impairment or reversal would be recognised.
The Alen field gas production in Equatorial Guinea is currently reinjected back into the field.
A project to commercialise gas production has now progressed sufficiently, resulting in a partial reversal of impairments of $243 million in the Equatorial Guinea oil operations Energy products segment and an increase in the recoverable value to $394 million.
The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions and the Henry Hub price assumption used in the valuation were $65 $70 per barrel and $3 per million Btu respectively.
Should these decrease or increase by 10%, a further $75 million of impairment or reversal would be recognised.
As a result of certain life of mine optimisation and design updates, alongside the finalisation phase of Katangas whole ore leach project and its successful commissioning in late 2017, it was determined that certain processing equipment and non-current inventories were no longer required and therefore the full carrying value of these assets were impaired by $76 million.
The balance of property, plant and equipment related impairment charges none of which were individually material relates to specific assets where utilisation is no longer required or projects progressed due to changes in production and development plans.
As a result, the full carrying value of these assets projects was impaired, with $186 million recognised in our Metals and minerals segment.
Investments Following strategic reviews of a copper and gold exploration investment and a coal investment it was determined, for the time being, to cease further development and, as a result, the full carrying value of each investment, $56 million and $45 million respectively, was impaired.
Advances and loans non-current Glencore has reviewed the carrying value of its interest in subordinated debt and preference shares of a coal port following the insolvencies of certain third party shippers which impact the expected return on these investments and as a result, such loans were impaired by $149 million, to their estimated recoverable amount of $139 million.
16 162 2 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Income taxes 2017 Income taxes consist of the following: Property, plant and equipment US$ million 2018 2017 Following a modest downward revision, compared to prior year, of the long-term oil price assumption used to determine the Current income tax expense 2,290 1,367 remaining recoverable value of the E&P assets, offset by a combination of improved pricing differentials for the Chad crude oil blend Adjustments in respect of prior year income tax 21 18 Doba and further cost savings, an overall impairment charge of $278 million was recognised in the Chad oil operations Energy Deferred income tax credit expense 264 370 products segment.
The valuation remains sensitive Adjustments in respect of prior year deferred income tax 58 4 to price and further deterioration or improvement in the pricing outlook may result in additional or reversal of impairment.
The Total tax expense reported in the statement of income 2,063 1,759 shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions used in the valuation were $65 $70 per barrel and should these decrease or increase by 10%, a further $535 million of impairment or reversal would be recognised.
Current income tax expense credit recognised directly in other comprehensive income In January 2018, a farm-down agreement to divest a 50% interest in the Bolongo licence in Cameroon was signed.
As a result, Deferred income tax credit expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income 8 37 the remaining recoverable value of the retained 37.5% working interest was impaired by $81 million, to its recoverable value of Total tax credit expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income 8 37 $142 million.
The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions used in the valuation were The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the following reasons: $65 $70 per barrel and should these decrease or increase by 10%, a further $13 million of impairment or reversal would be recognised.
US$ million 2018 2017 Income before income taxes and attribution 4,679 6,921 The Alen field gas production in Equatorial Guinea is currently reinjected back into the field.
A project to commercialise gas Less: Share of income from associates and joint ventures 1,043 1,158 production has now progressed sufficiently, resulting in a partial reversal of impairments of $243 million in the Equatorial Guinea Parent Companys and subsidiaries income before income tax and attribution 3,636 5,763 oil operations Energy products segment and an increase in the recoverable value to $394 million.
Income tax expense calculated at the Swiss income tax rate of 15% 2017: 15% 545 864 The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions and the Henry Hub price assumption used in the valuation were Tax effects of: $65 $70 per barrel and $3 per million Btu respectively.
Should these decrease or increase by 10%, a further $75 million of Different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate 227 333 impairment or reversal would be recognised.
Tax exempt income of $275 million 2017: $125 million from recurring items and $77 million 2017: $248 million from non-recurring items 352 373 As a result of certain life of mine optimisation and design updates, alongside the finalisation phase of Katangas whole ore leach Items not tax deductible of $585 million 2017: $316 million from recurring items project and its successful commissioning in late 2017, it was determined that certain processing equipment and non-current and $187 million 2017: $279 million from non-recurring items 772 595 inventories were no longer required and therefore the full carrying value of these assets were impaired by $76 million.
Foreign exchange fluctuations 130 30 Changes in tax rates $Nil 2017: $5 million from recurring items and $1 million 2017: $188 million The balance of property, plant and equipment related impairment charges none of which were individually material relates from non-recurring items 1 193 to specific assets where utilisation is no longer required or projects progressed due to changes in production and development Utilisation and changes in recognition of tax losses and temporary differences 357 290 plans.
As a result, the full carrying value of these assets projects was impaired, with $186 million recognised in our Metals and Tax losses not recognised 340 412 minerals segment.
Adjustments in respect of prior years 37 22 Investments Other 8 27 Following strategic reviews of a copper and gold exploration investment and a coal investment it was determined, for the time Income tax expense 2,063 1,759 being, to cease further development and, as a result, the full carrying value of each investment, $56 million and $45 million respectively, was impaired.
The non-tax deductible items of $772 million 2017: $595 million primarily relate to non-deductible exploration charges, financing Advances and loans non-current costs, impairments and various other expenses.
The impact of tax exempt income of $352 million 2017: $373 million primarily relates Glencore has reviewed the carrying value of its interest in subordinated debt and preference shares of a coal port following the to non-taxable intra-group dividends, income that is not effectively connected to the taxable jurisdiction, and various other items.
insolvencies of certain third party shippers which impact the expected return on these investments and as a result, such loans The tax impact of foreign exchange fluctuations relates to the foreign currency movements on deferred tax balances where the were impaired by $149 million, to their estimated recoverable amount of $139 million.
underlying tax balances are denominated in a currency different to the functional currency determined for accounting purposes.
The impact of change in tax rates of $193 million in 2017 arose primarily from significant corporate tax rate changes in the U. S. following the announced U. S. tax reform.
162 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 16316 3 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Income taxes continued Deferred taxes Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2018 and 2017 are attributable to the items in the table below: Recognised Business Foreign Recognised in in other combination currency the statement comprehensive and disposal exchange US$ million 2018 of income income of subsidiaries movements Other 2017 1 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 1,514 58 1 50 1,523 Other 214 38 2 32 210 Total 1,728 20 2 33 50 1,733 1 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and amortisation 6,318 487 2 157 224 19 6,855 Mark-to-market valuations 73 5 1 2 65 Other 448 256 9 105 8 104 Total 6,839 226 10 262 230 19 7,024 Total Deferred tax net 5,111 206 8 262 197 31 5,291 Recognised Business Foreign Recognised in in other combination currency the statement comprehensive and disposal exchange US$ million 2017 of income income of subsidiaries movements Other 2016 1 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 1,523 131 1 1,653 Other 210 50 14 2 18 47 107 Total 1,733 81 14 2 19 47 1,760 1 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and amortisation 6,855 265 5 914 142 17 5,546 Mark-to-market valuations 65 20 5 4 76 Other 104 48 13 5 4 42 Total 7,024 293 23 914 151 21 5,664 Total Deferred tax net 5,291 374 37 912 132 68 3,904 1 Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.
As at 31 December 2018, $2,140 million 2017: $2,404 million of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards have been brought to account, of which $1,514 million 2017: $1,523 million are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the remaining balance being offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same tax entity.
This balance is primarily comprised of: $520 million 2017: $470 million in entities domiciled in the DRC Katanga Mining Group, $452 million 2017: $478 million in entities domiciled in Switzerland, and $403 million 2017: $425 million in entities domiciled in the U. S. In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will be earned in future accounting periods prior to any tax loss expiry as may be the case, all available evidence was considered, including approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, analysis of historical operating results.
These forecasts are consistent with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes.
Following this evaluation, it was determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets and that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would result in a material reduction in forecast headroom of tax profits so that the recognised deferred tax asset would not be realised, other than the potential developments in the DRC discussed below.
16 164 4 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Income taxes continued Deferred taxes The recognised losses carried forward in Switzerland primarily relate to non-recurring events in 2012.
Based on the core business Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2018 and 2017 are attributable to the items in the table below: activities conducted in Switzerland and taxable income forecasts going forward, sufficient taxable profits are expected to fully utilise the recognised tax losses prior to expiration.
Recognised Business Foreign Recognised in in other combination currency The recognised losses carried forward in the U. S. primarily relate to non-recurring events in 2011 and have a carry forward period the statement comprehensive and disposal exchange of 20 years.
The U. S. entities comprise our core U. S. marketing activities and based on taxable income forecasts going forward, US$ million 2018 of income income of subsidiaries movements Other 2017 sufficient taxable profits are expected to fully utilise the recognised tax losses prior to expiration.
1 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 1,514 58 1 50 1,523 DRC related income tax judgements Other 214 38 2 32 210 The losses carried forward in the DRC have an unlimited carry forward period, but are subject to an annual utilisation limitation.
Total 1,728 20 2 33 50 1,733 Katanga Mining resumed processing operations in December 2017 and is expected to generate taxable profits in the future.
Should this potential fully materialise, up to $705 million 2017: $633 million of unrecognised tax effected losses are available to be recognised.
1 Deferred tax liabilities During the year, the DRC parliament adopted a new mining code 2018 Mining Code introducing wide ranging reforms including the Depreciation and introduction of higher royalties, a new Super Profits Tax regime and further regulatory controls.
This triggered a re-assessment of our tax amortisation 6,318 487 2 157 224 19 6,855 positions in the DRC.
Based on the potential challenge of historical tax positions and uncertainties of the 2018 Mining Code, specifically, Mark-to-market valuations 73 5 1 2 65 the application and interpretation of the Super Profits Tax, which cannot be offset by carry forward income tax losses, consideration Other 448 256 9 105 8 104 was given to the range of possible outcomes, including to what extent previously incurred tax losses would be available to offset future Total 6,839 226 10 262 230 19 7,024 taxable profits.
Any adverse challenge by the DRC tax authorities could significantly impact the currently recognised tax losses.
Total Deferred tax net 5,111 206 8 262 197 31 5,291 Available gross tax losses Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been Recognised Business Foreign Recognised in in other combination currency recognised in the consolidated financial statements, are detailed below and will expire as follows: the statement comprehensive and disposal exchange US$ million 2018 2017 US$ million 2017 of income income of subsidiaries movements Other 2016 1 1 year 1,418 110 Deferred tax assets 2 years 36 955 Tax losses carried forward 1,523 131 1 1,653 3 years 35 66 Other 210 50 14 2 18 47 107 Thereafter 2,791 2,140 Total 1,733 81 14 2 19 47 1,760 Unlimited 3,591 3,303 1 Total 7,871 6,574 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and As at 31 December 2018, unremitted earnings of $55,029 million 2017: $60,014 million have been retained by subsidiaries for amortisation 6,855 265 5 914 142 17 5,546 reinvestment.
No provision is made for income taxes.
Property, plant and equipment Total Deferred tax net 5,291 374 37 912 132 68 3,904 Mineral and Exploration 1 Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Freehold land Plant and petroleum and Deferred US$ million Notes and buildings equipment rights evaluation mining costs Total Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.
Gross carrying amount: 1 As at 31 December 2018, $2,140 million 2017: $2,404 million of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards have been 1 January 2018 restated 5,566 41,318 28,975 2,170 14,221 92,250 2 brought to account, of which $1,514 million 2017: $1,523 million are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the remaining balance being Restatement 25 145 8 356 453 234 offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same tax entity.
This balance is primarily comprised of: 1 January 2018 restated 5,711 41,310 28,619 2,170 14,674 92,484 Business combination 25 130 555 1,534 938 3,157 $520 million 2017: $470 million in entities domiciled in the DRC Katanga Mining Group, Disposal of subsidiaries 25 74 467 248 105 894 $452 million 2017: $478 million in entities domiciled in Switzerland, and Additions 72 3,611 195 860 4,738 Disposals 24 1,066 90 200 1,380 $403 million 2017: $425 million in entities domiciled in the U. S. Effect of foreign currency In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will be earned in future accounting periods prior to any tax loss expiry as may exchange movements 27 452 419 49 947 be the case, all available evidence was considered, including approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, Reclassification from held for sale 15 3 237 16 25 281 analysis of historical operating results.
These forecasts are consistent with those prepared and used internally for business planning Other movements 269 99 80 13 923 1,186 and impairment testing purposes.
Following this evaluation, it was determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated 31 December 2018 6,060 43,629 29,687 2,183 17,066 98,625 to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets and that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would result in a material reduction in forecast headroom of tax profits so that the recognised deferred tax asset would not be realised, other Accumulated depreciation and than the potential developments in the DRC discussed below.
Other than the restatement within the property, plant and equipment headings, there are no depreciation and amortisation changes.
2 Adjustment to previously reported purchase price allocation in relation to Volcan.
164 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 16516 5 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Property, plant and equipment continued Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of $3,268 million 2017: $4,454 million and a net book value of $523 million 2017: $527 million of lease assets under finance lease agreements.
Mineral and petroleum rights include biological assets of $18 million 2017: $21 million.
Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are $6,224 million 2017: $5,272 million and in selling and administrative expenses $19 million 2017: $19 million.
During 2018, $49 million 2017: $42 million of interest was capitalised.
With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 4% 2017: 3%.
As at 31 December 2018, except for the purposes of finance leases, no property, plant or equipment was pledged as security for borrowings 2017: $Nil.
2 Includes additions to restoration and rehabilitation of $786 million, see note 22.
16 166 6 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Property, plant and equipment continued 9.
Intangible assets Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of $3,268 million 2017: $4,454 million and a net book value of Licences, Customer Port allocation trademarks relationships $523 million 2017: $527 million of lease assets under finance lease agreements.
Mineral and petroleum rights include biological assets US$ million Notes Goodwill rights and software and other Total of $18 million 2017: $21 million.
Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are $6,224 million 2017: $5,272 million and in Cost: selling and administrative expenses $19 million 2017: $19 million.
With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used 1 Restatement 25 76 29 47 to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 4% 2017: 3%.
1 January 2018 restated 13,293 1,555 392 212 15,452 Business combination 25 2 425 427 As at 31 December 2018, except for the purposes of finance leases, no property, plant or equipment was pledged as security for borrowings 2017: $Nil.
Disposal of subsidiaries 25 4 4 Additions 1 25 13 39 Mineral and Disposals 1 8 9 petroleum Plant and Exploration Deferred Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 219 2 7 228 rights Freehold land equipment and mining costs 1 1 1 US$ million Notes and buildings restated restated evaluation restated Total Reclassification from held for sale 15 1 1 Other movements 24 25 49 Gross carrying amount: 1 January 2017 4,808 54,622 20,332 2,343 2,362 84,467 31 December 2018 13,293 1,336 434 664 15,727 1 Reclassification 14,040 3,958 10,082 1 January 2017 restated 4,808 40,582 24,290 2,343 12,444 84,467 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: Business combination 25 523 204 3,972 4,699 1 January 2018 8,243 149 237 83 8,712 Disposal of subsidiaries 25 88 572 118 282 1,060 Disposal of subsidiaries 25 4 4 2 Amortisation expense 37 35 10 82 Additions 76 2,602 346 576 3,600 Disposals 8 8 Disposals 31 384 10 24 449 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 27 2 1 30 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 26 334 281 34 675 Other movements 6 2 4 Reclassification to held for sale 15 43 633 126 11 813 31 December 2018 8,243 159 268 86 8,756 2 Net carrying amount 31 December 2018 5,050 1,177 166 578 6,971 Other movements 295 815 340 173 1,484 1,131 31 December 2017 restated 5,566 41,318 28,975 2,170 14,221 92,250 1 Adjustment to previously reported purchase price allocation in relation to Volcan.
2 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
Accumulated depreciation Port Licences, Customer and impairment: allocation trademarks relationships 1 January 2017 1,061 22,392 5,219 1,138 831 30,641 US$ million Notes Goodwill rights and software and other Total 1 Reclassification 6,178 831 5,347 Cost: 1 January 2017 Restated 1,061 16,214 6,050 1,138 6,178 30,641 1 January 2017 13,293 1,408 385 258 15,344 Disposal of subsidiaries 25 44 289 34 201 568 Business combination 25 76 76 Depreciation 266 2,955 991 1,079 5,291 Disposal of subsidiaries 25 2 2 4 Disposals 6 237 9 9 261 Additions 6 17 23 Impairments 6 23 261 8 477 375 378 Disposals 39 105 144 Effect of foreign currency Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 147 1 1 149 exchange movements 5 97 56 6 164 Reclassification to held for sale 15 1 1 Reclassification to held for sale 15 6 448 73 65 592 Other movements 42 14 56 2 Other movements 64 178 195 31 135 151 31 December 2017 13,293 1,555 468 183 15,499 31 December 2017 restated 1,363 18,731 6,778 1,584 6,748 35,204 Net book value 31 December 2017 restated 4,203 22,587 22,197 586 7,473 57,046 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 Certain balances in the prior year have been restated to reflect their appropriate classification.
Other than the restatement within the property, plant and equipment headings, there 1 January 2017 8,243 100 163 122 8,628 are no depreciation and amortisation changes.
Disposal of subsidiaries 25 1 1 2 Includes additions to restoration and rehabilitation of $786 million, see note 22.
1 Amortisation expense 36 53 18 107 Disposals 19 51 70 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 13 1 14 Other movements 40 6 34 31 December 2017 8,243 149 237 83 8,712 Net carrying amount 31 December 2017 5,050 1,406 231 100 6,787 1 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
166 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1671 67 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs as follows: US$ million 2018 2017 Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326 Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674 Metals warehousing business 50 50 Total 5,050 5,050 Metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses Goodwill of $3,326 million and $1,674 million was recognised in connection with previous business combinations and was allocated to the metals and minerals marketing and coal marketing CGUs respectively, based on the annual synergies expected to accrue to the respective marketing departments as a result of increased volumes, blending opportunities and freight and logistics arbitrage opportunities.
Metals warehousing business Goodwill of $50 million 2017: $50 million relates to the Access World logistics business CGU.
Port allocation rights Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay Coal Terminal in South Africa recognised as part of previous business combinations.
The rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life of the port of 40 years.
Licences, trademarks and software Intangibles related to internally developed technology and patents were recognised in previous business combinations and are amortised over the estimated economic life of the technology which ranges between 10 15 years.
Customer relationships During the year, Glencore acquired a Brazilian fuel distribution business see note 25 and as part of this acquisition, recognised intangible assets related to long-standing customer relationships.
These intangible assets are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic life of 5 years.
In December 2017, a royalty pertaining to the Antamina copper mine was disposed of, see note 4.
Goodwill impairment testing Given the nature of each CGUs activities, information on its fair value is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers or similar transactions are taking place.
Consequently, The recoverable amount for each of the marketing CGUs is determined by reference to the FVLCD which utilises a price to earnings multiple approach based on the 2019 approved financial budget which includes factors such as marketing volumes handled and operating, interest and income tax charges, generally based on past experience.
The price to earnings multiple of 15 times 2017: 15 times is derived from observable market data for broadly comparable businesses: and Glencore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value of the CGU.
The determination of FVLCD for each of the marketing CGUs used Level 3 valuation techniques in both years.
16 168 8 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and other investments Goodwill Investments in associates and joint ventures The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs as follows: US$ million Notes 2018 2017 1 January 13,998 13,086 US$ million 2018 2017 Additions 19 8 Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326 Disposals 1 12 Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 1,043 1,158 Metals warehousing business 50 50 Share of other comprehensive income from associates and joint ventures 124 93 Total 5,050 5,050 Fair value of retained interest in HG Storage and other 25 563 Metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses Disposal of equity accounted investments 25 170 Goodwill of $3,326 million and $1,674 million was recognised in connection with previous business combinations and was allocated Acquisition of equity accounted investments 25 109 to the metals and minerals marketing and coal marketing CGUs respectively, based on the annual synergies expected to accrue to Investment in Trevali 242 the respective marketing departments as a result of increased volumes, blending opportunities and freight and logistics arbitrage Investment in BaseCore Metals 5 150 opportunities.
Impairments 6 101 Dividends received 1,139 1,081 Metals warehousing business Reclassification from held for sale 15 8 Goodwill of $50 million 2017: $50 million relates to the Access World logistics business CGU.
Other movements 4 62 31 December 13,909 13,998 Port allocation rights Of which: Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay Coal Investments in associates 7,707 7,643 Terminal in South Africa recognised as part of previous business combinations.
Investments in joint ventures 6,202 6,355 Licences, trademarks and software As at 31 December 2018, the carrying value of our listed associates is $772 million 2017: $808 million, mainly comprising Century Intangibles related to internally developed technology and patents were recognised in previous business combinations and are Aluminum and Trevali, which have a carrying value of $441 million 2017: $478 million and $244 million 2017: $239 million respectively.
amortised over the estimated economic life of the technology which ranges between 10 15 years.
The fair value of our listed associates and joint ventures, using published price quotations a Level 1 fair value measurement is $463 million 2017: $1,340 million.
As at 31 December 2018, $101 million 2017: $270 million of the carrying value of Century Aluminum Customer relationships was secured under a loan facility, with proceeds received and recognised in current borrowings of $90 million 2017: $170 million.
During the year, Glencore acquired a Brazilian fuel distribution business see note 25 and as part of this acquisition, recognised HG Storage intangible assets related to long-standing customer relationships.
These intangible assets are being amortised on a straight-line In December 2017, Glencore disposed of a 51% interest in HG Storage, its petroleum products and logistics business, for $530 million basis over their estimated economic life of 5 years.
see note 25, subsequently accounting for its remaining share using the equity method.
Trevali In August 2017, Glencore disposed of its African zinc operations Perkoa and Rosh Pinah for a combination of cash and a 25% Goodwill impairment testing $222 million interest in Trevali see note 25.
Given the nature of each CGUs activities, information on its fair value is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers or similar transactions are taking place.
Consequently, BaseCore Metals In December 2017, Glencore disposed of a portfolio of selected base metals royalty assets for a combination of cash and a 50% The recoverable amount for each of the marketing CGUs is determined by reference to the FVLCD which utilises a price to earnings $150 million interest in BaseCore Metals LP see note 4, subsequently accounting for its share using the equity method.
multiple approach based on the 2019 approved financial budget which includes factors such as marketing volumes handled and operating, interest and income tax charges, generally based on past experience.
168 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 16916 9 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and other investments continued Details of material associates and joint ventures Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures, is set out below.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2018, including group adjustments relating to alignment of accounting policies or fair value adjustments, is set out below.
Total material Total associates Total material and material Glencore joint joint US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi Agri ventures ventures 2018 Revenue 2,516 3,489 6,005 3,241 26,304 29,545 35,550 Income for the year 359 1,224 1,583 963 15 948 2,531 Other comprehensive loss 20 2 18 18 Total comprehensive income 359 1,224 1,583 943 13 930 2,513 Glencores share of dividends paid 194 405 599 440 440 1,039 The above profit for the year includes the following: Depreciation and amortisation 571 789 1,360 611 261 872 2,232 1 Interest income 46 59 105 105 2 Interest expense 6 6 25 171 196 202 Income tax expense 231 711 942 496 123 619 1,561 1 Includes foreign exchange gains and other income of $73 million.
2 Includes foreign exchange losses of $24 million.
1 17 70 0 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and other investments continued 10.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and other investments continued Details of material associates and joint ventures Total material Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates associates Total and joint ventures relevant figures, is set out below.
Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 900 1,925 2,825 1,136 1,309 2,445 5,270 Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates Carrying value 1,689 3,237 4,926 3,018 3,184 6,202 11,128 and joint ventures relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2017, including group adjustments relating to alignment 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
of accounting policies or fair value adjustments, is set out below.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates Total material and joint ventures relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2018, including group adjustments relating to alignment Total associates of accounting policies or fair value adjustments, is set out below.
Total material and Total material Glencore joint joint US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi Agri ventures ventures material Total associates 2017 Total material and Revenue 2,371 3,550 5,921 2,960 25,222 28,182 34,103 material Glencore joint joint Income for the year 388 1,300 1,688 841 198 1,039 2,727 US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi Agri ventures ventures Other comprehensive loss 11 3 14 14 2018 Total comprehensive income 388 1,300 1,688 830 195 1,025 2,713 Revenue 2,516 3,489 6,005 3,241 26,304 29,545 35,550 Glencores share of dividends paid 147 493 640 356 356 996 Income for the year 359 1,224 1,583 963 15 948 2,531 Other comprehensive loss 20 2 18 18 The above profit for the year includes the following: Total comprehensive income 359 1,224 1,583 943 13 930 2,513 Depreciation and amortisation 533 766 1,299 574 248 822 2,121 Glencores share of dividends paid 194 405 599 440 440 1,039 1 Interest income 23 23 2 59 61 84 2 Interest expense 3 7 10 25 195 220 230 The above profit for the year includes the following: Income tax expense 240 712 952 389 50 439 1,391 Depreciation and amortisation 571 789 1,360 611 261 872 2,232 1 1 Includes foreign exchange gains and other income of $62 million.
Interest income 46 59 105 105 2 Includes foreign exchange losses of $81 million.
2 Interest expense 6 6 25 171 196 202 Income tax expense 231 711 942 496 123 619 1,561 Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material: 1 Includes foreign exchange gains and other income of $73 million.
US$ million 2018 2017 2 Includes foreign exchange losses of $24 million.
The Groups share of income 93 121 The Groups share of other comprehensive loss income 116 99 The Groups share of total comprehensive loss income 23 220 Aggregate carrying value of the Groups interests 2,781 2,651 The amount of corporate guarantees excluding Glencore Agri in favour of associates and joint ventures as at 31 December 2018 was $419 million 2017: $476 million.
Issued guarantees in favour of Glencore Agri amounted to $506 million as at 31 December 2018 2017: $518 million, mainly relating to a $400 million Viterra bond maturing in 2020.
No amounts have been claimed or provided as at 31 December 2018.
Glencores share of joint ventures capital commitments amounts to $19 million 2017: $72 million.
170 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 171 171 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and other investments continued Other investments US$ million 2018 2017 1 Fair value through other comprehensive income United Company Rusal plc 440 OAO NK Russneft 744 Yancoal 233 OSJC Rosneft Oil see below 376 2 Other 207 2,000 Available for sale United Company Rusal plc 933 OAO NK Russneft 1,042 Yancoal 293 2,268 Fair value through profit and loss OSJC Rosneft Oil cash-settled equity swaps see below 307 Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps 67 179 Other 204 67 690 Total 2,067 2,958 1 Fair value through other comprehensive income includes net disposals of $17 million for the period.
2 Prior to adoption of IFRS 9, other investments in equity instruments were classified as fair value through profit and loss in accordance with IAS 39.
On adoption of IFRS 9, the Group designated these investments that are not held for trading as at fair value through other comprehensive income.
The balance comprises a number of investments, none of which are individually material.
Fair value through other comprehensive income Following the adoption of IFRS 9, Glencore has designated all of its investments, other than investments in Associates, as at fair value with mark-to-market movements recognised in other comprehensive income.
Although Glencore holds a 25% interest in OAO Russneft, it does not exercise significant influence over its financial and operating policy decisions.
Rosneft In September 2018, the EUR300 million total return swap over 0.57% of Rosneft shares, accounted for at fair value through profit and loss, was converted into a 0.57% direct equity stake which, from the date of conversion, is accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income see note 5.
From 1 January 2018 through to the date of conversion, an $84 million positive fair value adjustment was recognised in the consolidated statement of income and from the date of conversion to year-end, a $15 million negative fair value adjustment was recognised in other comprehensive income.
17 172 2 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and other investments continued 11.
Advances and loans Other investments US$ million Notes 2018 2017 Financial assets at amortised cost US$ million 2018 2017 1 Loans to associates 275 220 Fair value through other comprehensive income Other non-current receivables and loans 376 804 United Company Rusal plc 440 Rehabilitation trust fund 120 126 OAO NK Russneft 744 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Yancoal 233 Other non-current receivables and loans 155 OSJC Rosneft Oil see below 376 2 Non-financial instruments Other 207 Pension surpluses 23 41 68 2,000 1 Advances repayable with product 1,387 1,542 Available for sale Other non-current receivables 201 216 United Company Rusal plc 933 Total 2,555 2,976 OAO NK Russneft 1,042 Yancoal 293 1 Net of $1,142 million 2017 $1,654 million provided by various banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future delivery of contractual production.
2,268 Financial assets at amortised cost Fair value through profit and loss OSJC Rosneft Oil cash-settled equity swaps see below 307 Loans to associates Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps 67 179 Loans to associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium.
In December 2017, loans extended Other 204 to associates were impaired by $149 million, see note 6.
67 690 Other non-current receivables and loans Total 2,067 2,958 Other non-current receivables and loans comprise the following: 1 Fair value through other comprehensive income includes net disposals of $17 million for the period.
On adoption of IFRS 9, the Group US$ million 2018 2017 designated these investments that are not held for trading as at fair value through other comprehensive income.
The balance comprises a number of investments, none of which Secured financing arrangements 360 786 are individually material.
Other 16 18 Fair value through other comprehensive income Total 376 804 Following the adoption of IFRS 9, Glencore has designated all of its investments, other than investments in Associates, as at fair value with mark-to-market movements recognised in other comprehensive income.
Although Glencore holds a 25% interest in Various financing facilities, generally marketing related and secured against certain assets and or payable from the future sale of OAO Russneft, it does not exercise significant influence over its financial and operating policy decisions.
The non-current receivables and loans are interest-bearing and on average are to be repaid over a three-year period.
Rosneft In September 2018, the EUR300 million total return swap over 0.57% of Rosneft shares, accounted for at fair value through profit Rehabilitation trust fund and loss, was converted into a 0.57% direct equity stake which, from the date of conversion, is accounted for at fair value through Glencore makes contributions to controlled funds that were established to meet the costs of its restoration and rehabilitation other comprehensive income see note 5.
From 1 January 2018 through to the date of conversion, an $84 million positive fair value liabilities, primarily in South Africa.
These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group, and there is no present adjustment was recognised in the consolidated statement of income and from the date of conversion to year-end, a $15 million obligation to make any further contributions.
negative fair value adjustment was recognised in other comprehensive income.
Loss allowances of financial assets at amortised cost The Group determines the expected credit loss of loans to associates and other non-current receivables and loans based on different scenarios of probability of default and expected loss applicable to each of the material underlying balances.
The movement in loss allowance for non-current financial assets classified at amortised cost is detailed below: Other noncurrent Loans to receivables and US$ million associates loans Total Gross carrying value 302 954 1,256 fide-recognition of financial asset at amortised cost see below 255 255 Gross carrying value 31 December 2018 302 699 1,001 Loss allowances 31 December 2017 28 210 238 1 Additional loss allowance under IFRS 9 10 10 1 January 2018 28 220 248 Released during the period 1 9 10 Charged during the period see note 6 191 191 fide-recognition of financial asset at amortised cost see below 100 100 Reclassifications 21 21 31 December 2018 27 323 350 Net carrying value 31 December 2018 275 376 651 1 See note 1.
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Other non-current receivables and loans During the year, the terms of a loan arrangement were substantially restructured and modified.
Under the new terms, repayment of the loan is dependent upon the underlying performance of the operations and as such, the contractual cash flows no longer represent solely payments of principal and interest and therefore the loan is accounted for at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL.
Following the substantial modification, the loan was fide-recognised as a financial asset at amortised cost and the new loan was recognised at a fair value of $155 million.
172 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 17317 3 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Advances and loans continued Fair value was determined using a Level 3 discounted cash flow model technique, with the key unobservable inputs being a discount rate specific to the operation of 13% and a repayment profile dependent upon the underlying business plans and forecasts over the next 7 years.
The valuation is sensitive to timing of the underlying cash flows and could result in a $44 million reduction of fair value if the repayment schedule is extended by an additional 7 years.
Non-financial instruments Advances repayable with product US$ million 2018 2017 Counterparty Socit Nationale dElectricit SNEL power advances 340 307 Chad State National Oil Company 393 339 Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo 65 123 Other 589 773 Total 1,387 1,542 SNEL power advances In early 2012, a joint agreement with Socit Nationale dlectricit SNEL, the Democratic Republic of the Congos DRC national electricity utility, was signed whereby Glencores operations would contribute $375 million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment programme, including transmission and distribution systems.
This is expected to facilitate a progressive increase in power availability to 450 megawatts by the end of 2019.
Funding commenced in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until Q1 2020.
The loans are being repaid via discounts on electricity purchases, which will accelerate upon completion of the refurbishment programme.
Chad State National Oil Company Glencore has provided a net $393 million 2017: $398 million to the Chad State National Oil Company SHT to be repaid through future oil deliveries over seven years.
As at 31 December 2018 the advance is net of $805 million 2017: $872 million provided by a syndicate of banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the receipt of oil due from SHT under the prepayment.
Of the net amount advanced, $393 million 2017: $339 million is receivable after 12 months and is presented within Other non-current receivables and loans and $Nil 2017: $59 million is due within 12 months and included within Accounts receivable.
Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo SNPC Glencore has provided a net $183 million 2017: $212 million to SNPC repayable through future oil deliveries over five years.
As at 31 December 2018, the advance is net of $530 million 2017: $549 million provided by the bank market, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future receipt of oil contractually due from SNPC.
Of the net amount advanced, $65 million 2017: $123 million is due after 12 months and is presented within Other long-term receivables and loans and $118 million 2017: $89 million is due within 12 months and included within Accounts receivable.
Inventories Current inventory Inventories of $20,564 million 2017: $24,084 million comprise $11,449 million 2017: $15,344 million of inventories carried at fair value less costs of disposal and $9,115 million 2017: $8,740 million valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The amount of inventories and related ancillary costs recognised as an expense during the year was $196,509 million 2017: $185,371 million.
Fair value of inventories is a Level 2 fair value measurement see note 28 using observable market prices obtained from exchanges, traded reference indices or market survey services adjusted for relevant location and quality differentials.
There are no significant unobservable inputs in the fair value measurement of such inventories.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its inventories.
In each case, the inventory has not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
The proceeds received are recognised as current borrowings see note 20.
As at 31 December 2018, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was $562 million 2017: $435 million.
The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were $366 million 2017: $221 million and $139 million 2017: $80 million as non-current borrowings.
Non-current inventory $353 million 2017: $369 million of inventories valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value are not expected to be utilised or sold within 12 months and are therefore classified as non-current inventory.
1 174 74 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Accounts receivable Fair value was determined using a Level 3 discounted cash flow model technique, with the key unobservable inputs being a discount US$ million Notes 2018 2017 rate specific to the operation of 13% and a repayment profile dependent upon the underlying business plans and forecasts over the Financial assets at amortised cost next 7 years.
The valuation is sensitive to timing of the underlying cash flows and could result in a $44 million reduction of fair value Trade receivables 4,163 4,623 if the repayment schedule is extended by an additional 7 years.
Trade advances 321 19 1 Margin calls paid 1,388 3,380 Non-financial instruments Associated companies 546 517 2 Other receivables 422 621 Advances repayable with product Trade receivables containing provisional pricing features 7,292 US$ million 2018 2017 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Counterparty Trade receivables containing provisional pricing features 28 6,471 Socit Nationale dElectricit SNEL power advances 340 307 Exchangeable loan see below 1,044 Chad State National Oil Company 393 339 Non-financial instruments Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo 65 123 3 Advances repayable with product 1,535 2,091 Other 589 773 Income tax receivable 203 178 Total 1,387 1,542 Other tax and related receivables 1,694 1,638 Total 17,787 20,359 SNEL power advances 1 Includes $1,041 million 2017: $717 million of cash collateral payments under margin arrangements related to cross currency swaps held to hedge non-U.
In early 2012, a joint agreement with Socit Nationale dlectricit SNEL, the Democratic Republic of the Congos DRC national 2 Includes current portion of non-current loans receivable in amount of $104 million 2017: $260 million.
electricity utility, was signed whereby Glencores operations would contribute $375 million to a major electricity infrastructure 3 Includes advances, net of $1,136 million 2017: $876 million provided by banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future delivery of contractual refurbishment programme, including transmission and distribution systems.
This is expected to facilitate a progressive increase production over the next 12 months.
in power availability to 450 megawatts by the end of 2019.
The loans are being repaid via discounts on electricity purchases, which will accelerate upon completion of the The average credit period on sales of goods is 19 days 2017: 20 days.
The carrying value of trade receivables approximates fair value.
The Group applies a simplified approach to measure the loss allowance for trade receivables classified at amortised cost, using the lifetime expected loss provision.
The expected credit loss on trade receivables is estimated using a provision matrix by reference to Chad State National Oil Company past default experience and credit rating, adjusted as appropriate for current observable data.
The following table details the risk Glencore has provided a net $393 million 2017: $398 million to the Chad State National Oil Company SHT to be repaid through profile of trade receivables based on the Groups provision matrix.
future oil deliveries over seven years.
As at 31 December 2018 the advance is net of $805 million 2017: $872 million provided by a syndicate of banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the receipt of oil due from SHT under US$ million Trade receivables days past due the prepayment.
Of the net amount advanced, $393 million 2017: $339 million is receivable after 12 months and is presented within As at 31 December 2018 Not past due 30 31 60 61 90 90 Total Other non-current receivables and loans and $Nil 2017: $59 million is due within 12 months and included within Accounts receivable.
Gross carrying amount 3,618 329 115 33 83 4,178 Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo SNPC Expected credit loss rate 0.26% 0.52% 0.77% 1.03% 2.19% Glencore has provided a net $183 million 2017: $212 million to SNPC repayable through future oil deliveries over five years.
As at Lifetime expected credit loss 10 2 1 2 15 31 December 2018, the advance is net of $530 million 2017: $549 million provided by the bank market, the repayment terms of Total 3,608 327 114 33 81 4,163 which are contingent upon and connected to the future receipt of oil contractually due from SNPC.
Of the net amount advanced, $65 million 2017: $123 million is due after 12 months and is presented within Other long-term receivables and loans and $118 million The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed below: 2017: $89 million is due within 12 months and included within Accounts receivable.
Inventories 1 Additional loss allowance under IFRS 9 20 1 January 2018 304 295 Current inventory Released during the year 54 143 Inventories of $20,564 million 2017: $24,084 million comprise $11,449 million 2017: $15,344 million of inventories carried at fair Charged during the year 99 153 value less costs of disposal and $9,115 million 2017: $8,740 million valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The amount Utilised during the year 11 21 of inventories and related ancillary costs recognised as an expense during the year was $196,509 million 2017: $185,371 million.
Reclassifications 21 Fair value of inventories is a Level 2 fair value measurement see note 28 using observable market prices obtained from exchanges, 31 December 317 284 traded reference indices or market survey services adjusted for relevant location and quality differentials.
There are no significant 1 See note 1. unobservable inputs in the fair value measurement of such inventories.
In each case, the inventory has Impairment losses recognised on trade receivables are recorded within cost of goods sold.
not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
As at 31 December 2018, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables.
The receivables have not been $562 million 2017: $435 million.
The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were $366 million 2017: $221 million derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
The proceeds received are recognised as current and $139 million 2017: $80 million as non-current borrowings.
As at 31 December 2018, the total amount of trade receivables secured was $1,943 million 2017: $748 million and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to $1,539 million 2017: $669 million and $126 million 2017: $Nil Non-current inventory as non-current borrowings.
$353 million 2017: $369 million of inventories valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value are not expected to be utilised Exchangeable loan or sold within 12 months and are therefore classified as non-current inventory.
On 6 October 2017, Glencore entered into an agreement with Off the Shelf Investments Fifty Six RF Proprietary Limited OTS to acquire from OTS i a 75% stake in Chevron South Africa Proprietary Limited Chevron SA and certain related interests and ii the entire issued share capital of Chevron Botswana Proprietary Limited Chevron Botswana together the Operations following closing of OTSs exercise of its pre-emptive right to acquire these Operations from the Chevron group.
OTSs acquisition from Chevron closed on 1 October 2018, at which time Glencore advanced $1,044 million to OTS under an exchangeable loan arrangement.
The loan is exchangeable into the 75% stake in Chevron SA and the 100% stake in Chevron Botswana acquired by OTS following receipt of the necessary regulatory approvals which are expected in H1 2019.
The current expectation is that this loan will be settled through exchanging the shares in the underlying businesses.
Notwithstanding this expectation, until the conditions precedent for this transaction have been satisfied, Glencores contractual right is to be repaid in cash and as such, this meets the definition of a financial asset under IFRS 9.
As the contractual cash flows do not represent solely payments of principal and interest under IFRS 9, the funds advanced have been accounted for as an exchangeable loan carried at fair value through profit and loss.
174 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1751 75 Notes to the financial statements continued 13.
Accounts receivable continued The exchangeable loan is a Level 2 fair value measurement based on the observable transaction price with reference to the underlying value of the respective stakes in Chevron SA and Chevron Botswana.
Given the necessary regulatory approvals for the completion of the transaction are expected during H1 2019, the fair value is not expected to change materially in the next financial year.
Cash and cash equivalents US$ million 2018 2017 Bank and cash on hand 1,860 1,751 Deposits and treasury bills 186 373 Total 2,046 2,124 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash in hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
As at 31 December 2018, $63 million 2017: $35 million, including $18 million 2017: $Nil held in on-shore accounts in our DRC operations, was restricted.
In 2018, the DRC made various changes to its mining code, including various restrictions on a companys ability to repatriate excess funds earned above its initial investment amounts.
The on-shore cash in our DRC operations can only be used to fund DRC related expenditures and any excess currently cannot be repatriated out of the DRC to the Group.
Assets and liabilities held for sale On 29 December 2017, Glencore completed the sale of a 51% interest in HG Storage International Ltd HG Storage, an entity comprising the majority of Glencores petroleum products storage and logistics businesses to HNA Innovation Finance Group Co Ltd HNA see note 25.
Glencore and HNA also entered into a second agreement pursuant to which three of the original transaction assets located in the USA HG Storage U. S. were to be sold to HG Storage in H2 2018 for proceeds of $196 million, subject to receipt of customary regulatory approvals.
The long stop date related to the HG Storage US proposed sale lapsed and in September 2018, both parties agreed to terminate the sale.
As a result, the net assets assets of $208 million and liabilities of $50 million previously classified as held for sale in 2017 were reclassified to the respective line items in the statement of financial position at depreciated cost and a one-time depreciation charge of $24 million was recognised to reflect the additional depreciation that would have been charged if the related assets had not previously been classified as held for sale.
In 2017, Glencore entered into an agreement to sell Tahmoor, a coal mining operation in New South Wales, as well as its manganese plants located in France and Norway.
Both transactions completed in H1 2018, see note 25.
As at US$ million HG Storage U. S. Other 31.12.2017 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 141 96 237 Intangible assets 1 1 Investments in associates 8 8 Deferred tax assets 33 33 150 129 279 Current assets Inventories 4 49 53 Accounts receivable 39 27 66 Other financial assets 7 7 Prepaid expenses 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 12 12 24 58 95 153 Total assets held for sale 208 224 432 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 41 5 46 Provisions 38 38 41 43 84 Current liabilities Accounts payable 8 62 70 Income tax payable 1 4 5 9 66 75 Total liabilities held for sale 50 109 159 Total net assets held for sale 158 115 273 1 176 76 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 13.
Share capital and reserves The exchangeable loan is a Level 2 fair value measurement based on the observable transaction price with reference to the underlying Number Share of shares Share capital premium value of the respective stakes in Chevron SA and Chevron Botswana.
Given the necessary regulatory approvals for the completion of thousand US$ million US$ million the transaction are expected during H1 2019, the fair value is not expected to change materially in the next financial year.
Authorised: 31 December 2018 and 2017 Ordinary shares with a par value of $0.01 each 50,000,000 14.
Cash and cash equivalents Issued and fully paid up: 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2017 Ordinary shares 14,586,200 146 51,340 US$ million 2018 2017 Distributions paid see note 18 2,836 Bank and cash on hand 1,860 1,751 31 December 2018 Ordinary shares 14,586,200 146 48,504 Deposits and treasury bills 186 373 Total 2,046 2,124 Treasury Shares Trust Shares Total Number Share Number Share Number Share Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash in hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three of shares premium of shares premium of shares premium months or less.
thousand US$ million thousand US$ million thousand US$ million Own shares: As at 31 December 2018, $63 million 2017: $35 million, including $18 million 2017: $Nil held in on-shore accounts in our DRC 1 January 2017 191,459 948 166,930 752 358,389 1,700 operations, was restricted.
In 2018, the DRC made various changes to its mining code, including various restrictions on a companys Own shares disposed during the year 37,080 125 37,080 125 ability to repatriate excess funds earned above its initial investment amounts.
The on-shore cash in our DRC operations can only 31 December 2017 191,459 948 129,850 627 321,309 1,575 be used to fund DRC related expenditures and any excess currently cannot be repatriated out of the DRC to the Group.
Assets and liabilities held for sale Own shares disposed during the year 53,140 262 53,140 262 Own shares transferred to satisfy employee On 29 December 2017, Glencore completed the sale of a 51% interest in HG Storage International Ltd HG Storage, an entity share awards 30,000 149 30,000 149 comprising the majority of Glencores petroleum products storage and logistics businesses to HNA Innovation Finance Group Co Ltd 31 December 2018 583,572 2,483 170,130 835 753,702 3,318 HNA see note 25.
Glencore and HNA also entered into a second agreement pursuant to which three of the original transaction assets located in the USA HG Storage U. S. were to be sold to HG Storage in H2 2018 for proceeds of $196 million, subject to receipt Own shares of customary regulatory approvals.
The long stop date related to the HG Storage US proposed sale lapsed and in September 2018, Own shares comprise shares acquired under the Companys share buy-back programme and shares of Glencore plc held by both parties agreed to terminate the sale.
As a result, the net assets assets of $208 million and liabilities of $50 million previously Group employee benefit trusts the Trusts to satisfy the potential future settlement of the Groups employee stock plans, primarily classified as held for sale in 2017 were reclassified to the respective line items in the statement of financial position at depreciated assumed as part of previous business combinations.
cost and a one-time depreciation charge of $24 million was recognised to reflect the additional depreciation that would have been charged if the related assets had not previously been classified as held for sale.
The Trusts also coordinate the funding and manage the delivery of ordinary shares and free share awards under certain of Glencores share plans.
The shares have been acquired by either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The Trusts are In 2017, Glencore entered into an agreement to sell Tahmoor, a coal mining operation in New South Wales, as well as its manganese permitted to sell the shares and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
The Trusts have plants located in France and Norway.
Both transactions completed in H1 2018, see note 25. waived the right to receive distributions from the shares that they hold.
Costs relating to the administration of the Trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
As at US$ million HG Storage U. S. Other 31.12.2017 In 2018, Glencore announced a $2 billion share buy-back programme, effected in accordance with the term of the authority granted Non-current assets by shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
As at 31 December 2018, $1,684 million of treasury shares and $321 million of trust Property, plant and equipment 141 96 237 shares have been purchased and, in aggregate, 753,702,088 shares 2017: 321,309,725 shares, equivalent to 5.17% 2017: 2.2% of the Intangible assets 1 1 issued share capital were held at a cost of $3,318 million 2017: $1,575 million and market value of $2,798 million 2017: $1,694 million.
Investments in associates 8 8 Other reserves Deferred tax assets 33 33 Net Net ownership 150 129 279 Translation Cash flow unrealised changes in Current assets US$ million adjustment hedge reserve gain loss subsidiaries Total Inventories 4 49 53 1 January 2018 2,321 39 877 942 2,425 Accounts receivable 39 27 66 Exchange loss on translation of foreign Other financial assets 7 7 operations 662 662 Prepaid expenses 3 3 Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 18 18 Cash and cash equivalents 12 12 24 Loss on equity investments accounted for at fair value 58 95 153 through other comprehensive income 848 848 Total assets held for sale 208 224 432 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries see note 33 1,207 1,207 Reclassifications 14 10 9 5 Non-current liabilities Items recycled to the statement of income Deferred tax liabilities 41 5 46 upon disposal of subsidiaries see note 25 218 218 Provisions 38 38 31 December 2018 2,779 47 38 2,149 4,937 41 43 84 1 January 2017 2,553 126 377 752 2,802 Current liabilities Exchange gain on translation of foreign Accounts payable 8 62 70 operations 503 503 Income tax payable 1 4 5 Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 165 165 9 66 75 Gain on available for sale financial instruments 500 500 Total liabilities held for sale 50 109 159 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 318 318 Total net assets held for sale 158 115 273 Items recycled to the statement of income upon disposal of subsidiaries see note 25 271 128 143 31 December 2017 2,321 39 877 942 2,425 176 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 17717 7 Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Earnings per share US$ million 2018 2017 Income attributable to equity holders of the Parent 3,408 5,777 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share thousand 14,151,826 14,256,020 Effect of dilution: Equity-settled share-based payments thousand 101,701 167,024 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share thousand 14,253,527 14,423,044 Basic earnings per share US$ 0.24 0.41 Diluted earnings per share US$ 0.24 0.40 Headline earnings: Headline earnings is a Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE defined performance measure.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, based on headline earnings as determined by the requirements of the Circular 4 2018 as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants SAICA, is reconciled using the following data: US$ million 2018 2017 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent for basic earnings per share 3,408 5,777 1 Net loss gain on disposals 139 1,309 Net loss gain on disposal non-controlling interest 7 Net loss gain on disposals tax 38 107 2 Impairments 1,452 479 Impairments non-controlling interest 218 42 Impairments tax 181 104 Headline and diluted earnings for the year 4,562 4,915 Headline earnings per share US$ 0.32 0.34 Diluted headline earnings per share US$ 0.32 0.34 1 See note 4.
2 Comprises impairments of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investments see note 6.
Distributions US$ million 2018 2017 Paid during the year: First tranche distribution $0.10 per ordinary share 2017: $0.035 1,427 499 Second tranche distribution $0.10 per ordinary share 2017: $0.035 1,409 499 Total 2,836 998 The proposed distribution in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 of $0.20 per ordinary share amounting to $2.8 billion is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
These distributions declared are expected to be paid equally $0.10 each in May 2019 and September 2019.
1 17 78 8 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Share-based payments US$ million 2018 2017 Number Number Income attributable to equity holders of the Parent 3,408 5,777 Number of of awards of awards Expense Expense awards Fair value at outstanding outstanding recognised recognised Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share thousand 14,151,826 14,256,020 granted grant date 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$ million thousand US$ million thousand thousand US$ million US$ million Effect of dilution: Deferred Bonus Plan Bonus share award Equity-settled share-based payments thousand 101,701 167,024 2015 Series 14,315 36 3,909 7 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share thousand 14,253,527 14,423,044 2016 Series 14,851 35 14,023 2017 Series 16,506 64 9,088 16,506 64 Basic earnings per share US$ 0.24 0.41 2018 Series 12,891 65 12,891 65 Diluted earnings per share US$ 0.24 0.40 58,563 21,979 34,438 65 71 Headline earnings: Performance Share Plan Headline earnings is a Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE defined performance measure.
The calculation of basic and diluted 2014 Series 20,908 115 826 5,302 1 9 earnings per share, based on headline earnings as determined by the requirements of the Circular 4 2018 as issued by the 2015 Series 77,816 107 33,026 54,250 11 30 South African Institute of Chartered Accountants SAICA, is reconciled using the following data: 2016 Series 24,156 84 15,190 23,439 27 47 US$ million 2018 2017 2017 Series 19,421 93 18,904 6,280 52 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent for basic earnings per share 3,408 5,777 2018 Series 7,758 28 7,758 2 1 Net loss gain on disposals 139 1,309 150,059 75,704 89,271 93 86 Net loss gain on disposal non-controlling interest 7 Total 208,622 97,683 123,709 158 157 Net loss gain on disposals tax 38 107 2 Impairments 1,452 479 Deferred Bonus Plan Impairments non-controlling interest 218 42 Under the Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, the payment of a portion of a participants annual bonus is deferred for a period of Impairments tax 181 104 one to two years as an award of either ordinary shares a Bonus Share Award or cash a Bonus Cash Award.
The awards are vested Headline and diluted earnings for the year 4,562 4,915 at grant date with no further service conditions, however they are subject to forfeiture for malus events.
The Bonus Share Awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at settlement, Headline earnings per share US$ 0.32 0.34 including distributions paid between award and settling.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares.
The associated Diluted headline earnings per share US$ 0.32 0.34 expense is recorded in the statement of income loss as part of the expense for performance bonuses.
Performance Share Plan Under the Glencore Performance Share Plan PSP, participants are awarded PSP awards which vest in annual tranches over a specified period, subject to continued employment and forfeiture for malus events.
At grant date, each PSP award is equivalent 18.
Distributions to one ordinary share of Glencore.
The awards vest in three or five equal tranches on 30 June, 31 December or 31 January of the years following the year of grant, as may be the case.
The fair value of the awards is determined by reference to the market price of US$ million 2018 2017 Glencores ordinary shares at grant date.
The PSP awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary Paid during the year: shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with First tranche distribution $0.10 per ordinary share 2017: $0.035 1,427 499 a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including distributions paid between award and vesting.
Glencore currently Second tranche distribution $0.10 per ordinary share 2017: $0.035 1,409 499 intends to settle these awards in shares.
Total 2,836 998 Share-based awards assumed in previous business combinations The proposed distribution in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 of $0.20 per ordinary share amounting to $2.8 billion Weighted is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial Total options average statements.
These distributions declared are expected to be paid equally $0.10 each in May 2019 and September 2019. outstanding exercise thousands price GBP 1 January 2018 124,603 4.00 Lapsed 9,626 6.58 Exercised 8,339 2.62 31 December 2018 106,638 1 January 2017 141,272 3.89 Lapsed 8,756 4.45 Exercised 7,913 1.60 31 December 2017 124,603 1 The weighted average share price at date of exercise of the share based awards was GBP3.91 2017: GBP3.45.
As at 31 December 2018, a total of 106,637,103 options 2017: 124,602,481 options were outstanding and exercisable, having a range of exercise prices from GBP1.095 to GBP4.80 2017: GBP1.1 to GBP6.87 and a weighted average exercise price of GBP3.91 2017: GBP4.00.
These outstanding awards have expiry dates ranging from March 2019 to February 2022 2017: March 2018 to February 2022 and a weighted average contractual life of 2.19 years 2017: 2.97 years.
The awards may be satisfied at Glencores option, by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards, when exercised, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury.
178 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 179179 Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Borrowings US$ million Notes 2018 2017 Non-current borrowings Capital market notes 19,804 22,628 Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 5,623 994 Finance lease obligations 30 277 328 Other bank loans 720 582 Total non-current borrowings 26,424 24,532 Current borrowings Secured inventory receivables other facilities 10 12 13 1,995 1,060 U. S. commercial paper 596 1,230 Capital market notes 2,775 3,550 Finance lease obligations 30 110 64 1 Other bank loans 3,094 3,498 Total current borrowings 8,570 9,402 Total borrowings 34,994 33,934 1 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
Reconciliation of cash flow to movement in borrowings US$ million 2018 2017 1 Cash related movements in borrowings Proceeds from issuance of capital market notes 185 2,026 Proceeds from issuance of non-dilutive convertible bond 576 Repayment of capital market notes 3,650 4,539 Proceeds from revolving credit facilities 4,624 501 Proceeds from other non-current borrowings 15 19 Repayment of finance lease obligations 72 105 Repayment of proceeds from U. S. commercial papers 634 1,180 Proceeds from repayment of current borrowings 439 1,266 1,483 2,184 Non-cash related movements in borrowings Borrowings acquired disposed in business combinations 263 761 Reclassification of the derivative component of the non-dilutive convertible bond 95 Foreign exchange movements 557 1,840 Fair value hedge movements 143 192 Change in finance lease obligations 90 73 Other non-cash movements 19 34 423 2,900 Increase in borrowings for the year 1,060 716 Total borrowings opening 33,934 33,218 Total borrowings closing 34,994 33,934 1 See consolidated statement of cash flows.
18 180 0 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Borrowings continued US$ million Notes 2018 2017 Capital Market Notes Non-current borrowings US$ million Maturity 2018 2017 Capital market notes 19,804 22,628 AUD 500 million 4.50% coupon bonds Sep 2019 398 Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 5,623 994 Euro 750 million 3.375% coupon bonds Sep 2020 865 931 Finance lease obligations 30 277 328 Euro 1,250 million 1.25% coupon bonds Mar 2021 1,413 1,491 Other bank loans 720 582 Euro 600 million 2.75% coupon bonds Apr 2021 688 730 Total non-current borrowings 26,424 24,532 Euro 700 million 1.625% coupon bonds Jan 2022 814 857 Current borrowings Euro 1,000 million 1.875% coupon bonds Sep 2023 1,140 1,195 Secured inventory receivables other facilities 10 12 13 1,995 1,060 Euro 400 million 3.70% coupon bonds Oct 2023 492 525 U. S. commercial paper 596 1,230 Euro 750 million 1.75% coupon bonds Mar 2025 858 906 Capital market notes 2,775 3,550 Euro 500 million 3.75% coupon bonds Apr 2026 618 662 Finance lease obligations 30 110 64 Eurobonds 6,888 7,297 1 Other bank loans 3,094 3,498 JPY 10 billion 1.075% coupon bonds May 2022 91 89 Total current borrowings 8,570 9,402 GBP 650 million 6.50% coupon bonds Feb 2019 876 Total borrowings 34,994 33,934 GBP 500 million 7.375% coupon bonds May 2020 669 731 GBP 500 million 6.00% coupon bonds Apr 2022 640 679 1 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
Sterling bonds 1,309 2,286 Reconciliation of cash flow to movement in borrowings CHF 175 million 2.125% coupon bonds Dec 2019 184 US$ million 2018 2017 CHF 500 million 1.25% coupon bonds Dec 2020 513 522 1 Cash related movements in borrowings CHF 250 million 2.25% coupon bonds May 2021 249 251 Proceeds from issuance of capital market notes 185 2,026 CHF 175 million 1.25% coupon bonds Oct 2024 182 Proceeds from issuance of non-dilutive convertible bond 576 Swiss Franc bonds 944 957 Repayment of capital market notes 3,650 4,539 US$ 500 million LIBOR plus 1.36% coupon bonds Jan 2019 279 Proceeds from revolving credit facilities 4,624 501 US$ 1,500 million 2.50% coupon bonds Jan 2019 690 Proceeds from other non-current borrowings 15 19 US$ 1,000 million 3.125% coupon bonds Apr 2019 447 Repayment of finance lease obligations 72 105 US$ 1,000 million 2.875% coupon bonds Apr 2020 412 414 Repayment of proceeds from U. S. commercial papers 634 1,180 US$ 1,000 million 4.95% coupon bonds Nov 2021 1,034 1,045 Proceeds from repayment of current borrowings 439 1,266 US$ 600 million 5.375% coupon bonds Feb 2022 535 535 1,483 2,184 US$ 250 million LIBOR plus 1.65% coupon bonds May 2022 250 250 Non-cash related movements in borrowings US$ 1,000 million 4.25% coupon bonds Oct 2022 1,008 1,011 Borrowings acquired disposed in business combinations 263 761 US$ 500 million 3.00% coupon bonds Oct 2022 497 496 Reclassification of the derivative component of the non-dilutive convertible bond 95 US$ 1,500 million 4.125% coupon bonds May 2023 1,495 1,520 Foreign exchange movements 557 1,840 US$ 1,000 million 4.625% coupon bonds Apr 2024 1,004 1,024 Fair value hedge movements 143 192 US$ 625 million non-dilutive convertible bonds Mar 2025 494 Change in finance lease obligations 90 73 US$ 500 million 4.00% coupon bonds Apr 2025 475 483 Other non-cash movements 19 34 US$ 1,000 million 4.00% coupon bonds Mar 2027 964 986 423 2,900 US$ 50 million 4.00% coupon bonds Mar 2027 50 50 Increase in borrowings for the year 1,060 716 US$ 500 million 3.875% coupon bonds Oct 2027 479 491 Total borrowings opening 33,934 33,218 US$ 250 million 6.20% coupon bonds Jun 2035 272 273 Total borrowings closing 34,994 33,934 US$ 500 million 6.90% coupon bonds Nov 2037 591 594 US$ 500 million 6.00% coupon bonds Nov 2041 539 540 1 See consolidated statement of cash flows.
US$ 500 million 5.55% coupon bonds Oct 2042 473 473 US$ bonds 10,572 11,601 Total non-current bonds 19,804 22,628 1 Assumed in the Volcan acquisition, see note 25.
180 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 181 181 Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Borrowings continued Capital Market Notes US$ million Maturity 2018 2017 AUD 500 million 4.50% coupon bonds Sep 2019 355 GBP 650 million 6.50% coupon bonds Feb 2019 829 Euro 1,250 million 4.625% coupon bonds Apr 2018 1,480 Euro 1,000 million 2.625% coupon bonds Nov 2018 1,202 CHF 175 million 2.125% coupon bonds Dec 2019 179 CHF 450 million 2.625% coupon bonds Dec 2018 461 US$ 500 million LIBOR plus 1.36% coupon bonds Jan 2019 279 US$ 1,500 million 2.50% coupon bonds Jan 2019 688 US$ 1,000 million 3.125% coupon bonds Apr 2019 445 US$ 250 million LIBOR plus 1.06% coupon bonds Apr 2018 48 US$ 500 million 2.125% coupon bonds Apr 2018 159 US$ 200 million LIBOR plus 1.20% coupon bonds May 2018 200 Total current bonds 2,775 3,550 2018 Bond activities In March 2018, Glencore issued a $500 million non-dilutive cash settled guaranteed convertible bond due 2025.
In September 2018, a further $125 million was issued on similar terms.
On the date of issuance, the Bonds were bifurcated into a debt and derivative component with the debt component carried at amortised cost accreting to par value $625 million at an effective interest rate of 3.7% per annum and the option component carried at fair value with mark-to-market movements recognised through the statement of income.
Concurrent with the placing of the Bonds, Glencore purchased cash-settled call options over the same number of Glencore shares underlying the convertible bonds to economically hedge the exposure to the potential exercise of conversion rights embedded in the Bonds.
These purchased call options are carried at fair value with mark-to-market movements recognised through the statement of income.
In October 2018, Glencore issued a 6-year CHF 175 million, 1.25% coupon bond 2017 Bond activities In March, issued a 10-year $1,000 million, 4% coupon bond In August, issued a 10-year $50 million, 4% coupon bond as a private placement In October, issued a 5-year $500 million, 3% coupon bond In October, issued a 10-year $500 million, 3.875% coupon bond Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities In March 2018 effective May 2018, Glencore signed new one-year revolving credit facilities of $9,085 million, refinancing the $7,335 million one-year revolving facilities signed in May 2017.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at US$LIBOR plus a margin of 40 basis points.
Glencore also voluntarily reduced the medium term facility size from $5,425 million to $5,115 million.
As at 31 December 2018, the active facilities comprise: A $9,085 million one-year revolving credit facility with a 12-month borrowers term-out option to May 2020 and a 12 month extension option: and A $5,115 million medium-term revolving credit facility to May 2022.
Secured facilities US$ million Maturity Borrowing base Interest 2018 2017 Syndicated committed metals 1 inventory receivables facilities Feb 2021 331 5% 328 80 Syndicated uncommitted metals 2 inventory receivables facilities Jan Jul Aug 2019 1,724 US$ LIBOR 0.95% 1,317 590 Syndicated uncommitted oil receivables facilities Oct 2019 525 US$ LIBOR 65 bps 525 300 Other secured facilities Dec 2019 170 US$ LIBOR 65 bps 90 170 Total 2,750 2,260 1,140 Current 2,483 1,995 1,060 Non-current 267 265 80 1 Comprises various facilities.
The maturity and interest detail represent the weighted average of the various debt balances outstanding at year end.
2 Since year-end, in the ordinary course of business, these maturities have been rolled extended as required.
1 182 82 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Deferred income Capital Market Notes Unfavourable US$ million Notes contracts Prepayments Total US$ million Maturity 2018 2017 1 January 2018 585 2,386 2,971 AUD 500 million 4.50% coupon bonds Sep 2019 355 Additions 40 40 GBP 650 million 6.50% coupon bonds Feb 2019 829 Accretion in the year 140 140 Euro 1,250 million 4.625% coupon bonds Apr 2018 1,480 Utilised in the year 77 537 614 Euro 1,000 million 2.625% coupon bonds Nov 2018 1,202 Acquired in business combinations 25 220 220 CHF 175 million 2.125% coupon bonds Dec 2019 179 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 44 44 CHF 450 million 2.625% coupon bonds Dec 2018 461 31 December 2018 684 2,029 2,713 US$ 500 million LIBOR plus 1.36% coupon bonds Jan 2019 279 Current 80 332 412 US$ 1,500 million 2.50% coupon bonds Jan 2019 688 Non-current 604 1,697 2,301 US$ 1,000 million 3.125% coupon bonds Apr 2019 445 US$ 250 million LIBOR plus 1.06% coupon bonds Apr 2018 48 1 January 2017 617 1,787 2,404 US$ 500 million 2.125% coupon bonds Apr 2018 159 US$ 200 million LIBOR plus 1.20% coupon bonds May 2018 200 Additions 675 675 Accretion in the year 164 164 Total current bonds 2,775 3,550 Utilised in the year 64 240 304 2018 Bond activities Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 32 32 In March 2018, Glencore issued a $500 million non-dilutive cash settled guaranteed convertible bond due 2025.
In September 2018, 31 December 2017 585 2,386 2,971 a further $125 million was issued on similar terms.
On the date of issuance, the Bonds were bifurcated into a debt and derivative Current 59 351 410 component with the debt component carried at amortised cost accreting to par value $625 million at an effective interest rate Non-current 526 2,035 2,561 of 3.7% per annum and the option component carried at fair value with mark-to-market movements recognised through the statement of income.
Unfavourable contracts In several business combinations, Glencore recognised liabilities related to various assumed contractual agreements to deliver Concurrent with the placing of the Bonds, Glencore purchased cash-settled call options over the same number of Glencore shares tonnes of coal over periods ending between 2019 and 2034 at fixed prices lower than the prevailing market prices on the respective underlying the convertible bonds to economically hedge the exposure to the potential exercise of conversion rights embedded acquisition dates.
These amounts are released to revenue as the underlying commodities are delivered to the buyers over the life of the contracts at rates consistent with the implied forward price curves at the time of the acquisitions.
In October 2018, Glencore issued a 6-year CHF 175 million, 1.25% coupon bond Prepayments 2017 Bond activities In November 2017, Glencore entered into a silver supply arrangement in exchange for an upfront advance payment of $675 million.
In March, issued a 10-year $1,000 million, 4% coupon bond Under the terms of the arrangement, Glencore is required to deliver an average of 19 million ounces of silver per annum, over a In August, issued a 10-year $50 million, 4% coupon bond as a private placement three-year period.
The arrangement has been accounted for as an executory contract whereby the advance payment has been recorded as deferred revenue.
The revenue from the advance payment is being recognised as the silver is delivered consistent with In October, issued a 5-year $500 million, 3% coupon bond the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction.
An accretion expense, representing the time value of the upfront In October, issued a 10-year $500 million, 3.875% coupon bond deposit on the deferred revenue balance, is also being recognised.
In 2015 and 2016, Glencore entered into various long-term streaming agreements for the future delivery of gold and or silver produced Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities over the life of mine from our Antamina, Antapaccay and Ernest Henry operations in exchange for an upfront prepayment and, for In March 2018 effective May 2018, Glencore signed new one-year revolving credit facilities of $9,085 million, refinancing the Antamina and Antapaccay, an ongoing amount equal to 20% of the spot silver and gold price.
Once certain delivery thresholds have $7,335 million one-year revolving facilities signed in May 2017.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at US$LIBOR plus a been met at Antapaccay, the ongoing cash payment increases to 30% of the spot gold and silver prices.
The arrangements have been margin of 40 basis points.
accounted for as executory contracts whereby the advance payments have been recorded as deferred revenue.
The revenue from the As at 31 December 2018, the active facilities comprise: advance payments is being recognised as the gold and or silver is delivered at an amount consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction along with ongoing cash payments, if any.
An accretion expense, representing the time value of A $9,085 million one-year revolving credit facility with a 12-month borrowers term-out option to May 2020 and a 12 month the upfront deposit on the deferred revenue balance, is also being recognised.
extension option: and A $5,115 million medium-term revolving credit facility to May 2022.
182 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 18318 3 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Post-retirement employee benefits The provision for post-retirement employee benefits includes pension plan liabilities of $393 million 2017: $392 million and post-retirement medical plan liabilities of $405 million 2017: $455 million, see note 23.
Other employee entitlements The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their termination of employment.
The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlements.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of production activities.
These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a projects life, which ranges from two to in excess of 50 years with an average for all sites, weighted by closure provision, of some 24 years 2017: 21 years.
As at 31 December 2018, the discount rate applied in calculating the restoration and rehabilitation provision is a pre-tax risk free rate specific to the liability and the currency in which they are denominated as follows: US dollar 2.0% 2017: 2.0%, South African rand 4.0% 2017: 4.0%, Australian dollar 2.8% 2017: 3.0%, Canadian dollar 2.3% 2017: 2.5%, and Chilean peso 3.0% 2017: 3.0%.
The effect of decreasing the discount rates used by 0.5% would result in an increase in the overall rehabilitation provision by $368 million, with a resulting equal movement in property, plant and equipment.
In the following year, the depreciation expense would increase by some $15 million, with an opposite direction interest expense adjustment of $6 million.
The resulting net impact in the statement of income would be a decrease of $9 million, eventually netting to $Nil over the weighted average settlement date of the provision.
1 184 84 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Provisions continued Post-retirement Other Onerous contracts employee employee Rehabilitation Onerous Onerous contracts represent liabilities related to contractual take or pay commitments for securing coal logistics capacity at fixed US$ million benefits entitlements costs contracts Other Total prices and quantities higher than the acquisition date forecasted usage and prevailing market price.
The provision is released to 1 January 2018 847 294 4,180 1,092 1,158 7,571 costs of goods sold as the underlying commitments are incurred.
Utilised 92 71 211 136 510 Released 36 476 43 555 Other Accretion 135 135 Other comprises provisions for possible demurrage, mine concession, tax and construction related claims.
1 Assumed in business combination 26 82 31 134 273 Tax disputes 1 Disposals of subsidiaries 1 41 31 73 Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
Inherent Additions 95 31 391 75 92 684 uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax laws.
For those matters Effect of foreign currency exchange where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its reasoned estimate of these tax liabilities, including related difference 52 79 16 147 interest charges.
These current open tax matters are spread across numerous jurisdictions and consist primarily of legacy transfer 31 December 2018 798 243 4,457 722 1,158 7,378 pricing matters that have been open for a number of years and may take several more years to resolve, none of which are individually Current 16 116 227 195 554 material.
Management does not anticipate a significant risk of material change in estimates within the next financial year.
Non-current 798 227 4,341 495 963 6,824 DRC 2018 Mining Code Owing to the lack of guidance and clarification on the practical application of the Super Profits Tax legislation under the 2018 Mining 1 January 2017 860 218 3,194 1,305 812 6,389 Code see also note 7, the Group has taken the view that no Super Profits Tax is due in the current year and that any potential amount Utilised 96 39 191 79 405 payable will not result in a material adjustment to the tax provision in the current year and within the next financial year.
Released 1 325 27 353 Accretion 260 1 261 UK Tax Audit 1 Assumed in business combination 162 38 200 In December 2018, HMRC issued formal transfer pricing, permanent establishment and diverted profits tax assessments for the 1 Disposals of subsidiaries 2 45 10 57 2008 2017 tax years, amounting to $680 million.
The Group intends to appeal and vigorously contest these assessments, following, 2 Reclassification to held for sale 1 37 38 over the years, various legal opinions received and detailed analysis conducted, supporting its positions and policies applied, and therefore the Group has not provided for the amount assessed.
Management does not anticipate a significant risk of material Additions 35 118 786 111 424 1,474 changes in estimates in this matter in the next financial year.
Personnel costs and employee benefits Current 56 90 176 155 477 Non-current 847 238 4,090 916 1,003 7,094 Total personnel costs, which include salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments, incurred 1 See note 25. for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017, were $5,063 million and $4,656 million, respectively.
Personnel costs related to 2 See note 15. consolidated industrial subsidiaries of $3,887 million 2017: $3,593 million are included in cost of goods sold.
Other personnel costs, including the deferred bonus and performance share plans, are included in selling and administrative expenses.
Post-retirement employee benefits The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices.
The provision for post-retirement employee benefits includes pension plan liabilities of $393 million 2017: $392 million and Eligibility for participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date post-retirement medical plan liabilities of $405 million 2017: $455 million, see note 23. of hire.
Among these schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans.
Other employee entitlements Defined contribution plans The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their Glencores contributions under these plans amounted to $140 million in 2018 2017: $133 million.
Post-retirement medical plans The Company participates in a number of post-retirement medical plans, principally in Canada, which provide coverage for Rehabilitation costs prescription drugs, medical, dental, hospital and life insurance to eligible retirees.
Almost all of the post-retirement medical plans Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion in the Group are unfunded.
Defined benefit pension plans As at 31 December 2018, the discount rate applied in calculating the restoration and rehabilitation provision is a pre-tax risk free The Company operates defined benefit plans in various countries, the main locations being Canada, Switzerland, UK and the U.
S.. rate specific to the liability and the currency in which they are denominated as follows: US dollar 2.0% 2017: 2.0%, South African rand Approximately 69% of the present value of obligations accrued to date relates to the defined benefit plans in Canada, which are 4.0% 2017: 4.0%, Australian dollar 2.8% 2017: 3.0%, Canadian dollar 2.3% 2017: 2.5%, and Chilean peso 3.0% 2017: 3.0%.
The effect pension plans that provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
Contributions to the of decreasing the discount rates used by 0.5% would result in an increase in the overall rehabilitation provision by $368 million, with a Canadian plans are made to meet or exceed minimum funding requirements based on provincial statutory requirements and resulting equal movement in property, plant and equipment.
In the following year, the depreciation expense would increase by some associated federal taxation rules.
$15 million, with an opposite direction interest expense adjustment of $6 million.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee-administered funds: however, there are also a number of unfunded plans where Glencore meets the benefit payments as they fall due.
Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practices in each country.
Responsibility for governance of the plans overseeing all aspects of the plans including investment decisions and contribution schedules lies with Glencore.
Glencore has set up committees to assist in the management of the plans and has also appointed experienced, independent professional experts such as investment managers, actuaries, custodians, and trustees.
184 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 18518 5 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Personnel costs and employee benefits continued The movement in the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans over the year is as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Present value Net liability of defined Fair value for defined Post-retirement benefit of plan benefit US$ million Notes medical plans obligation assets pension plans 1 January 2018 455 3,090 2,766 324 Current service cost 7 52 52 Past service cost plan amendments 2 2 Settlement of pension plan disposal 155 153 2 Interest expense income 16 89 87 2 Total expense recognised in consolidated statement of income 23 12 66 54 Loss on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense net 127 127 Loss from change in demographic assumptions 6 6 Gain from change in financial assumptions 16 95 95 Loss gain from actuarial experience 1 24 24 Actuarial gains losses recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 17 65 127 62 Employer contributions 74 74 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid directly by the Company 18 8 8 Benefits paid from plan assets 159 159 Net cash outflow inflow 18 166 92 74 Exchange differences 38 196 182 14 31 December 2018 405 2,651 2,299 352 Of which: Pension surpluses 11 41 Pension deficits 22 405 393 The actual return on plan assets in respect of defined benefit pension plans amounted to a loss of $222 million 2017: gain of $426 million, comprising interest income and the re-measurement of plan assets.
During the next financial year, the Group expects to make a contribution of $83 million to the defined benefit pension and postretirement medical plans across all countries, including current service costs and contributions required by pension legislation.
Contributions over the next five years for the Canadian plans only, based on the most recently filed actuarial reports, approximate $138 million.
Future funding requirements and contributions are reviewed and adjusted on an annual basis.
186 186 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Personnel costs and employee benefits continued 23.
Personnel costs and employee benefits continued The movement in the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans over the year is as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Present value Net liability Defined benefit pension plans of defined Fair value for defined Present value Net liability Post-retirement benefit of plan benefit of defined Fair value for defined US$ million Notes medical plans obligation assets pension plans Post-retirement benefit of plan benefit 1 January 2017 432 2,946 2,518 428 US$ million Notes medical plans obligation assets pension plans Current service cost 8 55 55 1 January 2018 455 3,090 2,766 324 Past service cost plan amendments 8 8 Current service cost 7 52 52 Settlement relating to mine closure 79 75 4 Past service cost plan amendments 2 2 Interest expense income 17 98 86 12 Settlement of pension plan disposal 155 153 2 Total expense recognised in consolidated statement Interest expense income 16 89 87 2 of income 25 66 11 55 Total expense recognised in consolidated statement Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included of income 23 12 66 54 in interest expense net 169 169 Loss on plan assets, excluding amounts included Gain from change in demographic assumptions 11 11 in interest expense net 127 127 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 15 87 87 Loss from change in demographic assumptions 6 6 Loss gain from actuarial experience 3 8 8 Gain from change in financial assumptions 16 95 95 Actuarial gains losses recognised in consolidated Loss gain from actuarial experience 1 24 24 statement of comprehensive income 12 68 169 101 Actuarial gains losses recognised in consolidated Employer contributions 76 76 statement of comprehensive income 17 65 127 62 Employee contributions 1 1 Employer contributions 74 74 Benefits paid directly by the Company 20 9 9 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid from plan assets 171 171 Benefits paid directly by the Company 18 8 8 Net cash outflow inflow 20 179 103 76 Benefits paid from plan assets 159 159 Exchange differences 30 189 171 18 Net cash outflow inflow 18 166 92 74 31 December 2017 455 3,090 2,766 324 Exchange differences 38 196 182 14 Of which: 31 December 2018 405 2,651 2,299 352 Pension surpluses 11 68 Of which: Pension deficits 22 455 392 Pension surpluses 11 41 Pension deficits 22 405 393 The defined benefit obligation accrued in Canada represents the majority for the Company.
The breakdown below provides details of the Canadian plans for both the statement of financial position and the weighted average duration of the defined benefit The actual return on plan assets in respect of defined benefit pension plans amounted to a loss of $222 million 2017: gain of obligation as at 31 December 2018 and 2017.
The defined benefit obligation of any of the Groups defined benefit plans outside of $426 million, comprising interest income and the re-measurement of plan assets.
Canada as at 31 December 2018 does not exceed $206 million 2017: $230 million.
186 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1871 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Personnel costs and employee benefits continued 2018 US$ million Canada Other Total Post-retirement medical plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 378 27 405 of which: amounts owing to active members 118 2 120 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 260 25 285 Defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 1,829 822 2,651 of which: amounts owing to active members 488 378 866 of which: amounts owing to non-active members 19 164 183 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 1,322 280 1,602 Fair value of plan assets 1,745 554 2,299 Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2018 84 268 352 Of which: Pension surpluses 40 1 41 Pension deficits 124 269 393 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 17 14 2017 US$ million Canada Other Total Post-retirement medical plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 425 30 455 of which: amounts owing to active members 132 4 136 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 293 26 319 Defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,217 873 3,090 of which: amounts owing to active members 586 389 975 of which: amounts owing to non-active members 40 214 254 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 1,591 270 1,861 Fair value of plan assets 2,167 599 2,766 Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2017 50 274 324 Of which: Pension surpluses 68 68 Pension deficits 118 274 392 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 17 13 Estimated future benefit payments of the Canadian plans, which reflect expected future service but exclude plan expenses, up until 2028 are as follows: Post-retirement Defined benefit US$ million medical plans pension plans Total 2019 18 105 123 2020 19 168 187 2021 19 120 139 2022 20 102 122 2023 20 101 121 2024-2028 105 504 609 Total 201 1,100 1,301 The plan assets consist of the following: US$ million 2018 2017 Cash and short-term investments 38 31 Fixed income 1,060 1,343 Equities 839 1,189 Other 362 203 Total 2,299 2,766 All investments have been fair valued based on quoted market prices with the exception of securities of $2 million 2017: $23 million included in Other.
18 188 8 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Personnel costs and employee benefits continued 2018 US$ million Canada Other Total The fair value of plan assets includes none of Glencores own financial instruments and no property occupied by or other assets used by Glencore.
For many of the plans, representing a large portion of the global plan assets, asset-liability matching strategies Post-retirement medical plans are in place, where the fixed-income assets are invested broadly in alignment with the duration of the plan liabilities, and the Present value of defined benefit obligation 378 27 405 proportion allocated to fixed-income assets is raised when the plan funding level increases.
The asset mix for each plan reflects the of which: amounts owing to active members 118 2 120 nature, expected changes in, and size of the liabilities and the assessment of long-term economic conditions, market risk, expected of which: amounts owing to pensioners 260 25 285 investment returns as considered during a formal asset mix study, including sensitivity analysis and or scenario analysis, conducted Defined benefit pension plans periodically for the plans.
Present value of defined benefit obligation 1,829 822 2,651 of which: amounts owing to active members 488 378 866 Through its defined benefit plans, Glencore is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: of which: amounts owing to non-active members 19 164 183 Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets of which: amounts owing to pensioners 1,322 280 1,602 underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The funded plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected Fair value of plan assets 1,745 554 2,299 to outperform bonds in the long term while contributing volatility and risk in the short term.
Glencore believes that due to the Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2018 84 268 352 long-term nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of Glencores long-term Of which: strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Pension surpluses 40 1 41 Change in bond yields: A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase Pension deficits 124 269 393 in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 17 14 Inflation risk: Some of the plans benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
2017 US$ million Canada Other Total Post-retirement medical plans Life expectancy: The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life Present value of defined benefit obligation 425 30 455 expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liability.
of which: amounts owing to active members 132 4 136 Salary increases: Some of the plans benefit obligations related to active members are linked to their salaries.
Higher salary increases of which: amounts owing to pensioners 293 26 319 will therefore tend to lead to higher plan liabilities.
Defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,217 873 3,090 The principal weighted-average actuarial assumptions used were as follows: of which: amounts owing to active members 586 389 975 Post-retirement medical plans Defined benefit pension plans of which: amounts owing to non-active members 40 214 254 2018 2017 2018 2017 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 1,591 270 1,861 Discount rate 4.0% 3.8% 3.5% 3.2% Fair value of plan assets 2,167 599 2,766 Future salary increases 2.6% 2.7% Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2017 50 274 324 Future pension increases 0.3% 0.3% Of which: Ultimate medical cost trend rate 4.2% 4.3% Pension surpluses 68 68 Pension deficits 118 274 392 Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned.
As at Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 17 13 31 December 2018, these tables imply expected future life expectancy, for employees aged 65, 16 to 24 years for males 2017: 16 to 24 and 20 to 25 years for females 2017: 20 to 25.
The assumptions for each country are reviewed regularly and are adjusted where Estimated future benefit payments of the Canadian plans, which reflect expected future service but exclude plan expenses, up until necessary to reflect changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
2028 are as follows: Post-retirement Defined benefit US$ million medical plans pension plans Total 2019 18 105 123 2020 19 168 187 2021 19 120 139 2022 20 102 122 2023 20 101 121 2024-2028 105 504 609 Total 201 1,100 1,301 The plan assets consist of the following: US$ million 2018 2017 Cash and short-term investments 38 31 Fixed income 1,060 1,343 Equities 839 1,189 Other 362 203 Total 2,299 2,766 All investments have been fair valued based on quoted market prices with the exception of securities of $2 million 2017: $23 million included in Other.
188 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 18918 9 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Personnel costs and employee benefits continued The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in principal assumptions as at 31 December 2018 is set out below, assuming that all other assumptions are held constant and the effect of interrelationships is excluded.
Increase decrease in pension obligation Post-retirement Defined benefit US$ million medical plans pension plans Total Discount rate Increase by 50 basis points 28 151 179 Decrease by 50 basis points 32 180 212 Rate of future salary increase Increase by 100 basis points 34 34 Decrease by 100 basis points 32 32 Rate of future pension benefit increase Increase by 100 basis points 34 34 Decrease by 100 basis points 26 26 Medical cost trend rate Increase by 100 basis points 59 59 Decrease by 100 basis points 47 47 Life expectancy Increase in longevity by one year 15 59 74 24.
Accounts payable US$ million Notes 2018 2017 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade payables 7,569 8,642 1 Margin calls received 753 443 Associated companies 824 1,052 Other payables and accrued liabilities 1,710 2,015 Trade payables containing provisional pricing features 16,022 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss Trade payables containing provisional pricing features 28 15,073 Non-financial instruments Advances settled in product 251 451 Other tax and related payables 304 201 Total 26,484 28,826 1 Includes $139 million 2017: $325 million of cash collateral receipts under margin arrangements related to cross currency swaps held to hedge non-U.
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services.
Trade payables typically have maturities up to 90 days depending on the type of material and the geographic area in which the purchase transaction occurs and the agreed terms.
The carrying value of trade payables approximates fair value.
190 190 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Personnel costs and employee benefits continued 25.
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in principal assumptions as at 31 December 2018 is set out below, 2018 Acquisitions assuming that all other assumptions are held constant and the effect of interrelationships is excluded.
In 2018, Glencore acquired a 49% interest in Hunter Valley operations coal mine in New South Wales HVO, an 82% interest in Hail Creek coal mine as well as a 71% interest in the Valeria coal resource in Queensland Hail Creek, a 78% interest in ALE Combustiveis Ale, a Brazilian Increase decrease in pension obligation fuel distributor and other businesses, none of which are individually material.
Due to the proximity of the transaction to the reporting Post-retirement Defined benefit date, the fair values are provisional and expected to be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition.
It is expected that adjustments US$ million medical plans pension plans Total could be made to the allocation of value between acquired mineral rights, plant and equipment, deferred taxes and provisions.
Discount rate Increase by 50 basis points 28 151 179 The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date are detailed below: Decrease by 50 basis points 32 180 212 Rate of future salary increase US$ million HVO Hail Creek Ale Other Total Increase by 100 basis points 34 34 Non-current assets Decrease by 100 basis points 32 32 Property, plant and equipment 1,402 1,701 46 8 3,157 Rate of future pension benefit increase Intangible assets 426 1 427 Increase by 100 basis points 34 34 Investments in associates and joint ventures 32 77 109 Decrease by 100 basis points 26 26 1 Advances and loans 14 5 54 73 Medical cost trend rate 1,448 1,783 526 9 3,766 Increase by 100 basis points 59 59 Current assets Decrease by 100 basis points 47 47 Inventories 50 68 90 208 Life expectancy 1 Accounts receivable 69 114 100 2 285 Increase in longevity by one year 15 59 74 Cash and cash equivalents 11 23 90 1 125 130 205 280 3 618 Non-controlling interest 41 41 24.
Accounts payable Non-current liabilities Borrowing 189 189 US$ million Notes 2018 2017 Deferred income 200 200 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Deferred tax liabilities 140 2 142 Trade payables 7,569 8,642 Provisions 66 69 41 176 1 Margin calls received 753 443 266 69 370 2 707 Associated companies 824 1,052 Current liabilities Other payables and accrued liabilities 1,710 2,015 Borrowing 74 74 Trade payables containing provisional pricing features 16,022 Accounts payable 52 166 98 316 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss Deferred income 20 20 Trade payables containing provisional pricing features 28 15,073 Provisions 9 2 11 Non-financial instruments 81 168 172 421 Advances settled in product 251 451 Total fair value of net assets acquired 1,231 1,751 223 10 3,215 Other tax and related payables 304 201 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 11 23 90 1 125 Total 26,484 28,826 Less: deferred consideration 82 82 4 168 1 Includes $139 million 2017: $325 million of cash collateral receipts under margin arrangements related to cross currency swaps held to hedge non-U.
Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 1,138 1,728 51 5 2,922 Acquisition related costs 59 83 142 Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services.
The carrying value of trade 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for advances and loans and accounts receivable and their fair value.
Hunter Valley operations On 4 May 2018, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 49% interest in the HVO coal mine in New South Wales for a consideration of $1,231 million, comprising $1,149 million cash and $82 million of deferred consideration payable over 5 years, $61 million of which is contingent on future coal prices.
Under the coal price contingent royalty arrangement, a production based royalty amount is due should actual prevailing prices be in excess of a royalty trigger price of $75 mt, commencing in September 2020 and lasting for a period of 10 years.
The contingent portion of the deferred consideration is a level 3 fair value measurement, and was determined using forecasted production estimates and assumed actual coal prices higher than the royalty trigger price over the royalty period.
Should production volumes increase decrease by 10%, the contingent consideration due would increase decrease by $6 million and for any given quarter should prevailing coal prices be lower than $75 mt escalating by CPI, no amounts would be due under the price contingent royalty arrangement.
HVO lies adjacent to numerous existing Glencore mines in the Hunter Valley and is expected to unlock significant mining and operating synergies.
The investment is structured through an unincorporated joint venture with each partys exposure equating to its rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of HVO.
As a joint operation, the 49% interest is accounted for by recognising the Groups share of HVOs assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses as prescribed by IFRS 11.
In conjunction with the acquisition, $59 million of stamp duty and related costs were incurred.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2018, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $192 million and additional attributable income of $29 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $611 million of revenue and $118 million of attributable income.
Hail Creek coal mine On 1 August 2018, Glencore completed the acquisition of an 82% interest in the Hail Creek coal mine and adjacent coal resources, as well as a 71% interest in the Valeria coal resource in central Queensland for a total cash consideration of $1,751 million.
Hail Creek is a large-scale, long-life and low-cost mine producing two-thirds premium quality hard coking coal and one-third thermal coal for export.
The investment is structured as an unincorporated joint venture with each partys exposure equating to its rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of Hail Creek.
However, the key decision making powers do not require unanimous consent of the participants.
As there is neither control nor joint control over the entire arrangement, Hail Creek is considered a deemed separate entity under IFRS 10 and is accounted for by recognising the Groups share of Hail Creeks assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses as prescribed by IFRS 10.
In conjunction with the acquisition, $83 million of stamp duty and related costs were incurred.
190 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 191 191 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2018, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $639 million and additional attributable income of $149 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $345 million of revenue and $95 million of attributable income.
ALE Combustiveis On 31 August 2018, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 78% interest in ALE Combusitveis, a Brazilian fuel distributor, for a cash consideration of $141 million on closing and $82 million due over six years.
The investment provides Glencore with a strong platform to participate in the expected significant domestic growth opportunities across the fuels sector in Brazil with the majority of the demand increase expected to be met by imports.
As Glencore holds the majority of the voting shares, providing it the ability to appoint a controlling number of directors to the board, Glencore is required to account for ALE using the full consolidation method in accordance with IFRS 10.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2018, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $2,439 million and additional attributable loss of $15 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $969 million of revenue and $2 million of attributable loss.
2017 Acquisitions In 2017, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. Volcan and other businesses, none of which are individually material.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date are detailed below: Volcan provisional fair Fair value values as adjustments to reported at the provisional Total Volcan 31 December allocation US$ million 2017 in 2018 fair values Other Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 4,656 234 4,890 43 4,933 Intangible assets 76 47 29 29 Other investments 52 52 52 Deferred tax assets 2 2 1 Advances and loans 32 27 5 1 6 4,816 160 4,976 46 5,022 Current assets Inventories 80 3 83 2 85 1 Accounts receivable 206 58 264 5 269 Other financial assets 30 30 30 Cash and cash equivalents 81 81 3 84 397 61 458 10 468 Non-controlling interest 1,733 1,733 1,733 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 629 629 629 Deferred tax liabilities 986 123 1,109 1,109 Provisions 174 86 260 26 286 1,789 209 1,998 26 2,024 Current liabilities Borrowings 175 175 175 Accounts payable 386 12 398 6 404 Other financial liabilities 37 37 37 598 12 610 6 616 Total fair value of net assets acquired 1,093 1,093 24 1,117 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 81 81 3 84 2 Less: amounts previously recognised as other investments 359 359 359 Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 653 653 21 674 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
Volcan On 9 November 2017, Glencore completed a tender offer, acquiring an additional 42.3% of the Class A common voting shares in Volcan, a Peruvian zinc mining business listed on the Lima stock exchange, for a consideration of $734 million, thereby increasing its voting shares interest from 20.7% to 63.0%.
Glencores total economic interest including the class B common non-voting shares and excluding treasury shares increased from 7.7% to 23.3%.
As Glencore holds the majority of the voting shares, providing it the ability to appoint a controlling number of directors to the board, Glencore is required to account for Volcan using the full consolidation method in accordance with IFRS 10.
The above fair value adjustments to the provisionally reported values primarily relate to the allocation of value between fixed asset classes, deferred taxes, rehabilitation and other provisions.
The acquisition accounting for Volcan has now been finalised.
1 192 92 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued 25.
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2018, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $639 million If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2017, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $696 million and additional attributable income of $149 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $345 million of revenue and additional attributable income of $93 million for the year ended 31 December 2017.
From the date of acquisition, the operation and $95 million of attributable income.
contributed $160 million of revenue and $Nil of attributable income for the year ended 31 December 2017.
ALE Combustiveis 2018 Disposals On 31 August 2018, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 78% interest in ALE Combusitveis, a Brazilian fuel distributor, for a cash In 2018, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in Glencore Manganese France SAS, Glencore Manganese Norway AS and consideration of $141 million on closing and $82 million due over six years.
The investment provides Glencore with a strong platform Tahmoor Coal Pty Ltd, operations that were classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2017 together Operations held for sale to participate in the expected significant domestic growth opportunities across the fuels sector in Brazil with the majority of the as at 31.12.2017. demand increase expected to be met by imports.
As Glencore holds the majority of the voting shares, providing it the ability to Mototolo appoint a controlling number of directors to the board, Glencore is required to account for ALE using the full consolidation method On 1 November 2018, Glencore disposed of its 40% interest of the Mototolo joint venture, a Platinum mine in South Africa, for a in accordance with IFRS 10. cash consideration of $68 million.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2018, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $2,439 million The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and the net cash received from these disposals are and additional attributable loss of $15 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $969 million of revenue and detailed below: $2 million of attributable loss.
Operations held for sale as 2017 Acquisitions US$ million Mototolo at 31.12.2017 Others Total In 2017, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. Volcan and other businesses, none of which are Non-current assets individually material.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities Property, plant and equipment 68 87 39 194 assumed on the acquisition date are detailed below: 68 87 39 194 Volcan Current assets provisional fair Fair value Inventories 3 27 4 34 values as adjustments to reported at the provisional Accounts receivable 34 39 6 79 Total Volcan 31 December allocation Cash and cash equivalents 7 32 3 42 US$ million 2017 in 2018 fair values Other Total 44 98 13 155 Non-current assets Non-controlling interest 19 1 20 Property, plant and equipment 4,656 234 4,890 43 4,933 Non-current liabilities Intangible assets 76 47 29 29 Deferred tax liabilities 3 3 Other investments 52 52 52 Provisions 4 37 28 69 Deferred tax assets 2 2 4 37 31 72 1 Advances and loans 32 27 5 1 6 Current liabilities 4,816 160 4,976 46 5,022 Accounts payable 20 85 24 129 Current assets Provisions 4 4 Inventories 80 3 83 2 85 24 85 24 133 1 Accounts receivable 206 58 264 5 269 Carrying value of net assets disposed 65 63 4 124 Other financial assets 30 30 30 Cash and cash equivalents received 68 48 14 130 Cash and cash equivalents 81 81 3 84 Intangible assets offtake agreement 36 36 397 61 458 10 468 Items recycled to the statement of income 197 14 7 218 Non-controlling interest 1,733 1,733 1,733 Future consideration 57 57 Non-current liabilities Transaction costs 3 3 Borrowings 629 629 629 Net loss gain on disposal 137 4 11 122 Deferred tax liabilities 986 123 1,109 1,109 Provisions 174 86 260 26 286 Cash and cash equivalents received 68 48 14 130 1,789 209 1,998 26 2,024 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed 7 32 3 42 Current liabilities Net cash received from disposal 61 16 11 88 Borrowings 175 175 175 Accounts payable 386 12 398 6 404 Other financial liabilities 37 37 37 598 12 610 6 616 Total fair value of net assets acquired 1,093 1,093 24 1,117 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 81 81 3 84 2 Less: amounts previously recognised as other investments 359 359 359 Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 653 653 21 674 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
192 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1931 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued 2017 Disposals In 2017, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in the Rosh Pinah mine in Namibia Rosh Pinah and Perkoa mine in Burkina Faso Perkoa, together referred to as Zinc Africa and 51% of the large majority of its petroleum storage and logistics businesses HG Storage.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and the net cash received from these disposals are detailed below: US$ million Zinc Africa HG Storage Others Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 266 169 57 492 Intangible assets 3 3 Investments in associates 170 170 Advances and loans 11 11 269 350 57 676 Current assets Inventories 58 4 7 69 Accounts receivable 43 68 15 126 Cash and cash equivalents 23 28 18 69 124 100 40 264 Non-controlling interest 4 25 29 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 31 10 41 Deferred tax liabilities 50 17 5 72 Provisions 24 33 57 74 48 48 170 Current liabilities Borrowings 2 2 Accounts payable 56 67 9 132 Income tax payable 2 2 58 69 9 136 Carrying value of net assets disposed 257 333 15 605 Cash and cash equivalents received 245 530 775 Shares received 222 222 Future consideration 13 13 Items recycled to the statement of income 22 121 143 1 Reclassified to investment in joint venture 509 54 563 Provision for guarantees 20 20 Transaction fees 12 12 1 Net gain on disposal 232 674 173 1,079 Cash and cash equivalents received 245 530 775 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed 23 28 18 69 Net cash received from disposal 222 502 18 706 1 Includes a gain of $383 million attributable to the re-measurement of the retained investment to its fair value upon change in control in HG Storage $363 million and Other $20 million.
Zinc Africa On 31 August 2017, Glencore completed the transaction with Trevali Mining Corporation Trevali a TSX listed zinc company, to sell its 80.1% equity interest in Rosh Pinah and its 90.0% equity interest in Perkoa.
The aggregate consideration received was $467 million, of which $245 million was cash and the remaining balance $222 million was 193.4 million shares in Trevali.
As a result of the transaction, Glencores direct ownership in Trevali increased from 4% to 25.6%.
Glencore is no longer able to unilaterally direct the key strategic, operating and capital decisions of Rosh Pinah and Perkoa and was deemed to have disposed of its controlling interest at fair value.
The difference to the net carrying value was recognised through the statement of income, with Glencore subsequently accounting for its share in Trevali using the equity method in accordance with IAS 28 see note 10.
HG Storage On 29 December 2017, Glencore completed the sale of a 51% interest in HG Storage International Ltd HG Storage, a group comprising the majority of Glencores petroleum products storage and logistics businesses excluding the U. S. see note 15 to HNA Innovation Finance Group Co Ltd HNA for cash consideration of $530 million, including the assumption of certain debt.
Glencore is no longer able to unilaterally direct the key strategic, operating and capital decisions of HG Storage and was deemed to have disposed of its controlling interest at fair value.
The difference to the net carrying value was recognised through the statement of income, with Glencore subsequently accounting for its remaining remeasured share in HG Storage using the equity method in accordance with IAS 28.
1 194 94 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued 26.
Financial and capital risk management 2017 Disposals Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencores operations comprise market risk including commodity price In 2017, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in the Rosh Pinah mine in Namibia Rosh Pinah and Perkoa mine in Burkina risk, interest rate risk and currency risk, credit risk including performance risk and liquidity risk.
It is Glencores policy and practice Faso Perkoa, together referred to as Zinc Africa and 51% of the large majority of its petroleum storage and logistics businesses to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks for management of margin risk within Glencores HG Storage.
extensive and diversified industrial portfolio, refer net present value at risk below to support its objectives in managing its capital and future financial security and flexibility.
Glencores overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and the net cash received from these disposals are financial markets and seeks to protect its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible detailed below: to substantially hedge these financial risks.
Glencores finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity departments, monitor, manage and report regularly to senior management and the Board of Directors on the approach and US$ million Zinc Africa HG Storage Others Total effectiveness in managing financial risks along with the financial exposures facing the Group.
Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 266 169 57 492 Glencores objectives in managing its capital attributable to equity holders include preserving its overall financial health and Intangible assets 3 3 strength for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial Investments in associates 170 170 flexibility at an attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable Advances and loans 11 11 long-term profitability.
Central to meeting these objectives is maintaining an investment grade credit rating status.
Glencores 269 350 57 676 current credit ratings are Baa2 positive outlook from Moodys and BBB stable from S&P.
Current assets Inventories 58 4 7 69 Distribution policy and other capital management initiatives Accounts receivable 43 68 15 126 Glencores cash distribution policy comprises two components: 1 a fixed $1 billion component and 2 a variable element representing a minimum 25% of free cash flow generated by our industrial assets during the year.
The actual variable distribution component Cash and cash equivalents 23 28 18 69 minimum 25% pay-out guidance will reflect prevailing balance sheet position, market conditions and outlook and be confirmed 124 100 40 264 annually in respect of prior periods cash flows.
Distributions are expected to be formally declared by the Board annually with the Non-controlling interest 4 25 29 preliminary full-year results.
Distributions, when declared, will be settled equally in May and September of the year they are declared Non-current liabilities in.
In addition and acknowledging the cyclical nature of the industry, in periods of strong earnings and cash generation the Board, Borrowings 31 10 41 considering all relevant factors, could formally declare an additional distribution to be included with the distribution confirmed with Deferred tax liabilities 50 17 5 72 respect to the prior year and or initiate or continue share buy-back programmes.
Notwithstanding that the distribution is declared Provisions 24 33 57 and paid in U. S. dollars, shareholders will be able to elect to receive their distribution payments in Pounds Sterling, Euros or Swiss 74 48 48 170 Francs based on the exchange rates in effect around the date of payment.
Shareholders on the JSE will receive their distributions Current liabilities in South African Rand.
Borrowings 2 2 Accounts payable 56 67 9 132 Commodity price risk Income tax payable 2 2 Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced 58 69 9 136 forward contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts.
Glencore manages a significant portion of this exposure Carrying value of net assets disposed 257 333 15 605 through futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter OTC markets, to the extent Cash and cash equivalents received 245 530 775 available.
Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencores physical commodity marketing Shares received 222 222 activities and the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to derivative counterparties, including clearing brokers and exchanges.
Whilst it is Glencores policy to substantially hedge its commodity price Future consideration 13 13 risks, there remains the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying Items recycled to the statement of income 22 121 143 1 price risk.
The hedging instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to Reclassified to investment in joint venture 509 54 563 be hedged, resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure.
Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Provision for guarantees 20 20 Glencores commodity department teams who actively engage in the management of such.
Transaction fees 12 12 1 Net gain on disposal 232 674 173 1,079 Cash and cash equivalents received 245 530 775 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed 23 28 18 69 Net cash received from disposal 222 502 18 706 1 Includes a gain of $383 million attributable to the re-measurement of the retained investment to its fair value upon change in control in HG Storage $363 million and Other $20 million.
194 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1951 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Financial and capital risk management continued Value at risk One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, principally commodity price risk related to its physical marketing activities, is of a value at risk VaR computation.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates a threshold for potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific level of confidence and based on a specific price history.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability-based approach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can be measured consistently across markets and commodities and risk measures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations computed at a 95% confidence level and utilising a weighted data history for a one-day time horizon.
Glencores Board has set an unchanged consolidated VaR limit one day 95% confidence level of $100 million representing less than 0.2% of total equity, which the Board reviews annually.
There were no breaches of this limit during the year.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and daily Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups net marketing positions to determine potential losses.
Market risk VaR one-day 95% confidence level ranges and year-end positions were as follows: US$ million 2018 2017 Year-end position 33 18 Average during the year 34 25 High during the year 76 41 Low during the year 16 13 VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value in earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR analysis by analysing forward looking stress scenarios, benchmarking against an alternative VaR computation based on historical simulations and back testing calculated VaR against the hypothetical portfolio returns arising in the next business day.
Glencores VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals including aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper and lead, coal, iron ore and oil natural gas and assesses the open priced positions which are subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities.
Due to the lack of a liquid terminal market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina, molybdenum, cobalt, freight and some risk associated with metals concentrates as it does not consider the nature of these markets to be suited to this type of analysis.
Alternative measures are used to monitor exposures related to these products.
Net present value at risk Glencores future cash flows related to its forecast energy and metals and minerals production activities are also exposed to commodity price movements.
Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional shorter-term hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting and quantification of the underlying operations estimated cash flows and valuations.
Interest rate risk Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets and liabilities and cash flows.
Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks: other methods include the use of interest rate swaps and similar derivative instruments.
Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund fast turning working capital interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital is primarily based on US$ LIBOR plus an appropriate premium.
Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 50 basis points higher lower and all other variables held constant, Glencores income and equity for the year ended 31 December 2018 would decrease increase by $135 million 2017: $110 million.
Currency risk The U. S. dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group.
Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange rates related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the U. S. dollar.
Such transactions include operating expenditure, capital expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency.
Purchases or sales of commodities concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial operations which act as a hedge against local operating costs, are ordinarily economically hedged through forward exchange contracts.
Consequently, foreign exchange movements against the U. S. dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial impact.
Glencore enters into currency hedging transactions with leading financial institutions.
Glencores debt related payments both principal and interest are primarily denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into U. S. dollars.
Glencores operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which the U. S. dollar, Swiss Franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian Peso and South African Rand are the predominant currencies.
196 196 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Financial and capital risk management continued 26.
Financial and capital risk management continued Value at risk Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss Franc, Sterling, Yen and Australian dollar denominated bonds see note 20.
Cross currency swaps One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, principally commodity price risk related to its were concluded to hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds.
These contracts were physical marketing activities, is of a value at risk VaR computation.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates a threshold designated as fair value or cash flow hedges of the associated foreign currency risks.
The critical terms of these swap contracts for potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a and their corresponding hedged items are matched and the Group expects a highly effective hedging relationship with the swap specific level of confidence and based on a specific price history.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability-based contracts and the value of the corresponding hedged items to change systematically in opposite direction in response to movements approach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations in the underlying exchange rates.
The corresponding fair value and notional amounts of these derivatives is as follows: between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can be measured consistently across markets and commodities and risk Carrying amount Carrying amount measures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Assets Liabilities Average FX Average Notional amounts rates Note 28 Note 28 maturity Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations computed at a 95% confidence level and utilising a weighted data US$ million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 history for a one-day time horizon.
Glencores Board has set an unchanged consolidated VaR limit one day 95% confidence level of Cross currency swap agreements $100 million representing less than 0.2% of total equity, which the Board reviews annually.
Cash flow hedges currency risk Eurobonds 1,117 4,038 1.12 1.26 53 98 227 2023 Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and daily Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups Sterling bonds 2,906 1,921 1.77 1.77 15 785 636 2020 net marketing positions to determine potential losses.
Australian dollar bonds 453 453 0.91 0.91 3 9 101 62 2019 Market risk VaR one-day 95% confidence level ranges and year-end positions were as follows: Swiss franc bonds 473 1.05 7 2018 Fair value hedges currency and interest US$ million 2018 2017 rate risk Year-end position 33 18 Eurobonds 6,100 6,100 1.26 1.26 153 285 435 192 2022 Average during the year 34 25 Yen bonds 81 81 0.01 0.01 10 8 2022 High during the year 76 41 Swiss franc bonds 1,148 966 1.04 1.04 6 28 13 2020 Low during the year 16 13 11,805 15,017 219 421 1,349 1,137 Interest rate swap agreements VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value in earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim Fair value hedges currency and interest that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR rate risk should always be viewed in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, US$ bonds 5,584 5,743 11 70 62 20 2023 market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR 17,389 20,760 230 491 1,411 1,157 analysis by analysing forward looking stress scenarios, benchmarking against an alternative VaR computation based on historical 1 Refer to note 20 for details.
simulations and back testing calculated VaR against the hypothetical portfolio returns arising in the next business day.
Glencores VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals including aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper and lead, The carrying amounts of the fair value hedged items are as follows: coal, iron ore and oil natural gas and assesses the open priced positions which are subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities.
Due to the lack of a liquid terminal market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina, Of which, molybdenum, cobalt, freight and some risk associated with metals concentrates as it does not consider the nature of these markets Carrying amount of the accumulated to be suited to this type of analysis.
hedged item amount of fair value Note 20 hedge adjustments Net present value at risk US$ million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Glencores future cash flows related to its forecast energy and metals and minerals production activities are also exposed to Foreign exchange and interest rate risk commodity price movements.
Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional Eurobonds 5,748 6,102 143 229 shorter-term hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting Yen bonds 91 89 1 and quantification of the underlying operations estimated cash flows and valuations.
Swiss franc bonds 1,122 957 2 8 US$ bonds 5,492 5,742 60 33 Interest rate risk 12,453 12,890 85 271 Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets and liabilities and cash flows.
Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks: Credit risk other methods include the use of interest rate swaps and similar derivative instruments.
Floating rate debt which is predominantly Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed used to fund fast turning working capital interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital is primarily based on payment terms.
Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, US$ LIBOR plus an appropriate premium.
Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional receivables and advances, derivative instruments and non-current advances and loans.
Glencores credit management process pricing and terms.
includes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis.
Glencores cash and cash equivalents Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were are placed overnight with a diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions.
Margin calls paid are similarly held with credit 50 basis points higher lower and all other variables held constant, Glencores income and equity for the year ended 31 December 2018 rated financial institutions.
Glencore determines these instruments to have low credit risk at the reporting date.
Credit risk with would decrease increase by $135 million 2017: $110 million.
respect to receivables and advances is mitigated by the large number of customers comprising Glencores customer base, their diversity across various industries and geographical areas, as well as Glencores policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, Currency risk netting, collateral and insurance arrangements where appropriate.
Additionally, it is Glencores policy that transactions and activities The U. S. dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group.
Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting rates related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the U. S. dollar.
Such transactions include operating expenditure, of balances due to from a common counterparty in the event of default by the counterparty.
Glencore actively and continuously capital expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency.
Purchases or sales monitors the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a credit scoring process, which includes, where available, of commodities concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial public credit ratings.
Balances with counterparties not having a public investment grade or equivalent internal rating are typically operations which act as a hedge against local operating costs, are ordinarily economically hedged through forward exchange enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit or insurance contracts.
Consequently, foreign exchange movements against the U. S. dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial products.
Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 3.9% 2017: 3.3% of its trade receivables financial impact.
on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements or accounting for more than 2.6% of its revenues over the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: 3.5%.
Glencores operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which The maximum exposure to credit risk including performance risk see below, without considering netting agreements or without the U. S. dollar, Swiss Franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian Peso and South taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencores financial assets African Rand are the predominant currencies.
see note 27 and physically-settled advances see notes 11 and 13.
196 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1971 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Financial and capital risk management continued Performance risk Performance risk part of the broader credit risk subject matter, discussed above is inherent in contracts, with agreements in the future, to physically purchase or sell commodities with fixed price attributes, and arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to from Glencore.
Glencore undertakes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process.
Glencores market breadth, diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the vast majority of Glencores commodity portfolio which does not fix prices beyond three months, with the main exception being coal, where longer-term fixed price contracts are common, ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated.
The commodity industry has trended towards shorter term fixed price contract periods, in part to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the continuous development of transparent and liquid spot commodity markets, with their associated derivative products and indexes.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and availability of adequate committed funding facilities.
Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, including via available committed undrawn credit facilities of $3 billion 2017: $3 billion, which has purposely been substantially exceeded in recent years, accounting for the more volatile market backdrop.
Glencores credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements.
As part of its liquidity management, Glencore closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure, working capital needs and proposed investments, as well as credit facility refinancing extension requirements, well ahead of time see notes 1, 11, 13, 20, 21 and 24.
As at 31 December 2018, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities and cash amounting to $10,163 million 2017: $12,801 million, refer to Other reconciliations section.
The maturity profile of Glencores financial liabilities based on the contractual terms is as follows: 2018 US$ million After 5 years Due 3 5 years Due 2 3 years Due 1 2 years Due 0 1 year Total Borrowings 7,229 7,157 3,630 8,408 8,570 34,994 Expected future interest payments 2,700 862 635 796 852 5,845 Accounts payable 26,484 26,484 Other financial liabilities 529 3,243 3,772 Total 10,458 8,019 4,265 9,204 39,149 71,095 Current assets 44,268 44,268 2017 US$ million After 5 years Due 3 5 years Due 2 3 years Due 1 2 years Due 0 1 year Total Borrowings 10,071 7,637 2,710 4,114 9,402 33,934 Expected future interest payments 3,256 1,116 728 913 964 6,977 Accounts payable 28,826 28,826 Other financial liabilities 513 4,522 5,035 Total 13,840 8,753 3,438 5,027 43,714 74,772 Current assets 49,726 49,726 1 19 98 8 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Financial and capital risk management continued 27.
Financial instruments Performance risk The following tables present the carrying values and fair values of Glencores financial instruments.
Fair value is the price that would Performance risk part of the broader credit risk subject matter, discussed above is inherent in contracts, with agreements in the be expected to be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal most advantageous future, to physically purchase or sell commodities with fixed price attributes, and arises from the possibility that counterparties may market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
Where available, market values have been used to determine not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to from Glencore.
When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing the assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process.
Glencores market market interest and exchange rates.
The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate breadth, diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the vast majority of Glencores valuation methodologies, but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course commodity portfolio which does not fix prices beyond three months, with the main exception being coal, where longer-term fixed of business.
price contracts are common, ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated.
The commodity industry has trended towards The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate shorter term fixed price contract periods, in part to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the continuous the fair values with the exception of $34,994 million 2017: $33,934 million of borrowings, the fair value of which at 31 December 2018 development of transparent and liquid spot commodity markets, with their associated derivative products and indexes.
was $34,863 million 2017: $34,776 million based on observable market prices applied to the borrowing portfolio a Level 2 fair value measurement.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, Amortised 1 2 to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
2018 US$ million cost FVTPL FVTOCI Total Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and availability of adequate committed Assets 3 funding facilities.
Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, including via available Other investments 67 2,000 2,067 committed undrawn credit facilities of $3 billion 2017: $3 billion, which has purposely been substantially exceeded in recent years, Non-current other financial assets 51 51 accounting for the more volatile market backdrop.
Glencores credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, Advances and loans 771 155 926 ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements.
As part of its liquidity management, Glencore Accounts receivable 6,840 7,515 14,355 closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure, working capital needs and proposed investments, as well as credit facility Other financial assets 3,482 3,482 refinancing extension requirements, well ahead of time see notes 1, 11, 13, 20, 21 and 24.
Cash and cash equivalents 2,046 2,046 Total financial assets 9,657 11,270 2,000 22,927 As at 31 December 2018, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities and cash amounting to $10,163 million 2017: $12,801 million, refer to Other reconciliations section.
The maturity profile of Glencores financial liabilities based on the contractual terms is as follows: Liabilities Borrowings 34,994 34,994 2018 US$ million After 5 years Due 3 5 years Due 2 3 years Due 1 2 years Due 0 1 year Total Non-current other financial liabilities 189 340 529 Borrowings 7,229 7,157 3,630 8,408 8,570 34,994 Accounts payable 10,856 15,073 25,929 Expected future interest payments 2,700 862 635 796 852 5,845 Other financial liabilities 3,243 3,243 Accounts payable 26,484 26,484 Total financial liabilities 46,039 18,656 64,695 Other financial liabilities 529 3,243 3,772 1 FVTPL Fair value through profit and loss, see note 28.
Total 10,458 8,019 4,265 9,204 39,149 71,095 2 FVTOCI Fair value through other comprehensive income.
Current assets 44,268 44,268 3 Other investments of $1,979 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $88 million being investments in private companies, classified as Level 2 measured using discounted cash flow models.
2017 US$ million After 5 years Due 3 5 years Due 2 3 years Due 1 2 years Due 0 1 year Total Amortised Borrowings 10,071 7,637 2,710 4,114 9,402 33,934 1 2 2017 US$ million cost FVTPL FVTOCI Total Expected future interest payments 3,256 1,116 728 913 964 6,977 3 Assets Accounts payable 28,826 28,826 4 Other investments 2,268 690 2,958 Other financial liabilities 513 4,522 5,035 Advances and loans 1,150 1,826 2,976 Total 13,840 8,753 3,438 5,027 43,714 74,772 Accounts receivable 16,452 16,452 Current assets 49,726 49,726 Other financial assets see note 28 2,311 2,311 Cash and cash equivalents 2,124 2,124 Total financial assets 19,726 4,579 2,516 26,821 3 Liabilities Borrowings 33,934 33,934 Non-current other financial liabilities see note 28 513 513 Accounts payable 28,174 28,174 Other financial liabilities see note 28 4,522 4,522 Total financial liabilities 62,108 5,035 67,143 1 FVTPL Fair value through profit and loss, see note 28.
2 FVTOCI Fair value through other comprehensive income.
3 Restated to exclude $3,907 million of receivables and $652 million of payables that were non-financial instruments.
4 Other investments of $2,871 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $87 million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured and therefore carried at cost.
198 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 19919 9 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Financial instruments continued Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities In accordance with IAS 32 the Group reports financial assets and liabilities on a net basis in the consolidated statement of financial position only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar agreements as at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Total as presented Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off in the under netting agreements under netting agreements Amounts consolidated not subject statement Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting of financial 2018 US$ million amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position 1 Derivative assets 17,135 14,823 2,312 341 719 1,253 1,170 3,482 1 Derivative liabilities 16,577 14,823 1,754 341 914 499 1,489 3,243 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
Total as presented Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off in the under netting agreements under netting agreements Amounts consolidated not subject statement Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting of financial 2017 US$ million amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position 1 Derivative assets 13,220 11,907 1,313 347 426 540 998 2,311 1 Derivative liabilities 15,162 11,907 3,255 347 2,430 478 1,267 4,522 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities may be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Per the terms of each agreement, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement other than payment if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure is given to the party or bankruptcy.
20 200 0 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Fair value measurements Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Fair values are primarily determined using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where In accordance with IAS 32 the Group reports financial assets and liabilities on a net basis in the consolidated statement of financial available and are presented to reflect the expected gross future cash in outflows.
Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial position only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or instruments into a three level hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master the fair value of the financial asset or liability as follows: netting and similar agreements as at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Level 1 Inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that Glencore can assess at the Total as measurement date, or presented Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off Level 2 Inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly, in the under netting agreements under netting agreements Amounts consolidated or not subject statement Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities, requiring Glencore to make market-based assumptions Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting of financial 2018 US$ million amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than one year and options that are exchange traded, whereas 1 Derivative assets 17,135 14,823 2,312 341 719 1,253 1,170 3,482 Level 2 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than one year, over the counter options, swaps and physical 1 Derivative liabilities 16,577 14,823 1,754 341 914 499 1,489 3,243 forward transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes.
Level 3 classifications primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominantly from models that use broker 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
quotes and applicable market-based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials and financial liabilities linked to the fair value of certain mining operations.
In circumstances where Glencore cannot verify fair value with observable market Total as inputs Level 3 fair values, it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
presented Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off in the under netting agreements under netting agreements It is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting Amounts consolidated agreements or long form confirmations to enable balances due to from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default, not subject statement Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting of financial insolvency or bankruptcy by the counterparty.
2017 US$ million amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical forward 1 Derivative assets 13,220 11,907 1,313 347 426 540 998 2,311 purchase and sale commitments by type of contract and non-current other financial liabilities as at 31 December 2018 and 2017.
1 Derivative liabilities 15,162 11,907 3,255 347 2,430 478 1,267 4,522 Other assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis are marketing inventories, other investments and 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
Refer to notes 12 and 27 for disclosures in connection with these fair value measurements.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on Other financial assets a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities may be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to 2018 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total the master netting or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the Accounts receivable 6,471 6,471 other party.
Per the terms of each agreement, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when due, failure by Other financial assets a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement other than payment if such failure is not remedied within periods Commodity related contracts of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure is given to the party or bankruptcy.
Futures 1,353 79 1,432 Options 15 15 Swaps 149 483 632 Physical forwards 598 552 1,150 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 219 219 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 34 34 Current other financial assets 1,517 1,413 552 3,482 Non-current other financial assets 1 Purchased call options over Glencore shares 51 51 Non-current other financial assets 51 51 Total 1,517 7,935 552 10,004 1 Call options over the Companys shares in relation to conversion rights of the $625 million non-dilutive convertible bond, due in 2025.
2017 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Other financial assets Commodity related contracts Futures 227 42 269 Options 93 37 130 Swaps 131 339 470 Physical forwards 582 356 938 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 421 421 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 83 83 Total 451 1,504 356 2,311 200 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 2012 01 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Fair value measurements continued Other financial liabilities 2018 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Accounts payable 15,073 15,073 Other financial liabilities Commodity related contracts Futures 318 72 390 Options 93 3 96 Swaps 45 432 477 Physical forwards 615 247 862 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 1,349 1,349 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 69 69 Current other financial liabilities 456 2,537 250 3,243 Non-current other financial liabilities 1 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 188 188 Option over non-controlling interest in Ale 40 40 2 Deferred consideration 61 61 3 Embedded call options over Glencore shares 51 51 Non-current other financial liabilities 51 289 340 Total 456 17,661 539 18,656 2017 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Other financial liabilities Commodity related contracts Futures 2,029 84 2,113 Options 37 29 8 74 Swaps 121 372 493 Physical forwards 468 184 652 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 1,137 1,137 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 53 53 Current other financial liabilities 2,187 2,143 192 4,522 Non-current other financial liabilities 1 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 513 513 Non-current other financial liabilities 513 513 Total 2,187 2,143 705 5,035 1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, a participant in one of the Groups principal coal joint operations based in South Africa.
The liability arises from ARM Coals rights as an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate.
The derivative liability is settled over the life of those operations modelled mine life of 25 years as at 31 December 2018 and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within 12 months.
3 Embedded call option bifurcated from the 2025 convertible bond.
The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities: Physical Total US$ million forwards Options Other Level 3 1 January 2018 172 8 513 349 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 207 3 204 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 325 325 Option over non-controlling interest 40 40 Deferred consideration 61 61 Realised 74 8 66 31 December 2018 305 3 289 13 1 January 2017 355 6 403 54 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 58 8 50 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 110 110 Realised 241 6 235 31 December 2017 172 8 513 349 During the year no amounts were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and no amounts were transferred into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for either other financial assets or other financial liabilities.
2 202 02 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Fair value measurements continued Other financial liabilities Some of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The following table provides information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined, 2018 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total in particular, the valuation techniques and inputs used.
Accounts payable 15,073 15,073 Other financial liabilities Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities Commodity related contracts US$ million 2018 2017 Futures 318 72 390 Futures Level 1 Assets 1,353 227 Options 93 3 96 Liabilities 318 2,029 Swaps 45 432 477 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Physical forwards 615 247 862 Significant unobservable inputs: None Financial contracts Futures Level 2 Assets 79 42 Cross currency swaps 1,349 1,349 Liabilities 72 84 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 69 69 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Current other financial liabilities 456 2,537 250 3,243 Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in Non-current other financial liabilities active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which 1 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 188 188 captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Option over non-controlling interest in Ale 40 40 Significant unobservable inputs: None 2 Deferred consideration 61 61 Options Level 1 Assets 15 93 3 Embedded call options over Glencore shares 51 51 Liabilities 93 37 Non-current other financial liabilities 51 289 340 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Total 456 17,661 539 18,656 Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 2 Assets 37 Liabilities 29 2017 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Other financial liabilities Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in Commodity related contracts active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which Futures 2,029 84 2,113 captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Options 37 29 8 74 Significant unobservable inputs: None Swaps 121 372 493 Options Level 3 Assets Physical forwards 468 184 652 Liabilities 3 8 Financial contracts Valuation techniques and key inputs: Standard option pricing model Cross currency swaps 1,137 1,137 Significant unobservable inputs: Prices are adjusted by volatility differentials.
This significant unobservable input generally Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 53 53 represents 2% 20% of the overall value of the instruments.
A change to a reasonably possible Current other financial liabilities 2,187 2,143 192 4,522 alternative assumption would not result in a material change in the underlying value.
Non-current other financial liabilities Swaps Level 1 Assets 149 131 1 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 513 513 Liabilities 45 121 Non-current other financial liabilities 513 513 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Total 2,187 2,143 705 5,035 Significant unobservable inputs: None Swaps Level 2 Assets 483 339 1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, a participant in one of the Groups principal coal joint operations based in South Africa.
The liability arises from ARM Liabilities 432 372 Coals rights as an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate.
The derivative liability is settled over the life of those operations modelled mine life of 25 years as at 31 December 2018 and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model 12 months.
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in 2 See note 25. active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which 3 Embedded call option bifurcated from the 2025 convertible bond.
See note 20. captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities: Physical Forwards Level 2 Assets 598 582 Physical Total Liabilities 615 468 US$ million forwards Options Other Level 3 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model 1 January 2018 172 8 513 349 Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 207 3 204 in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which Non-discretionary dividend obligation 325 325 captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, such as history of non-performance, collateral held and current market developments, as required.
Option over non-controlling interest 40 40 Deferred consideration 61 61 Significant unobservable inputs: None Realised 74 8 66 31 December 2018 305 3 289 13 1 January 2017 355 6 403 54 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 58 8 50 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 110 110 Realised 241 6 235 31 December 2017 172 8 513 349 During the year no amounts were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and no amounts were transferred into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for either other financial assets or other financial liabilities.
202 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 203 2 03 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Fair value measurements continued US$ million 2018 2017 Physical Forwards Level 3 Assets 552 356 Liabilities 247 184 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Significant unobservable inputs: Valuation of the Groups commodity physical forward contracts categorised within this level is based on observable market prices that are adjusted by unobservable differentials, as required, including: Quality: Geographic location: Local supply & demand: Customer requirements: and Counterparty credit considerations.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2%30% of the overall value of the instruments.
The valuation prices are applied consistently to value physical forward sale and purchase contracts, and changing a particular input to reasonably possible alternative assumptions does not result in a material change in the underlying value of the portfolio.
Cross currency swaps Level 2 Assets 219 421 Liabilities 1,349 1,137 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 2 Assets 34 83 Liabilities 69 53 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Call options over Glencore shares Level 2 Assets 51 Liabilities 51 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Option pricing model: Current price of Glencore shares: Strike price: Maturity date of the underlying convertible debt security: Risk-free rate: and Volatility.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Accounts receivable and payable Level 2 Assets 6,471 Liabilities 15,073 Comprised of trade receivables payables containing an embedded commodity derivative, which are designated and measured at fair value through profit and loss until final settlement Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted commodity prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Non-discretionary dividend obligation Level 3 Assets Liabilities 188 513 Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model Significant unobservable inputs: Forecast commodity prices: Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology: Production models: Operating costs: and Capital expenditures.
The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying mining operation.
Increases decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an increase decrease to the value of the liability though this will be partially offset by associated increases decreases in the assumed production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures which are inherently linked to forecast commodity prices.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and a 10% increase decrease in commodity price assumptions would result in a $111 million adjustment to the current carrying value.
Option over non-controlling interest in Ale Level 3 Assets Liabilities 40 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Significant unobservable inputs: The resultant liability is the value of the remaining minority stake in the subsidiary, measured as the higher of the acquisition date valuation of the shares, and a discounted future earnings based valuation.
The valuation is additionally sensitive to movement in the spot exchange rates between the Brazilian Real and US Dollar.
2 204 04 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Auditors remuneration US$ million 2018 2017 US$ million 2018 2017 Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencores consolidated financial statements 3 3 Physical Forwards Level 3 Assets 552 356 Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 18 18 Liabilities 247 184 1 Audit-related assurance services 3 2 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Total audit and related assurance fees 24 23 Significant unobservable inputs: Valuation of the Groups commodity physical forward contracts categorised within this level is based on observable market prices that are adjusted by unobservable differentials, as required, Transaction services 4 including: Taxation compliance services 2 2 Quality: Other taxation advisory services 2 2 Geographic location: Other assurance services 2 1 Local supply & demand: Total non-audit fees 6 9 Customer requirements: and Total professional fees 30 32 Counterparty credit considerations.
1 Audit-related assurance services primarily related to interim reviews of the Groups half-year accounts and quarterly accounts of the Groups publicly listed subsidiaries.
The valuation prices are applied consistently to value physical forward sale and purchase contracts, and changing a particular input to reasonably possible alternative 30.
Future commitments assumptions does not result in a material change in the underlying value of the portfolio.
Cross currency swaps Level 2 Assets 219 421 Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is generally funded through the cash flow generated Liabilities 1,349 1,137 by the respective industrial entities.
As at 31 December 2018, $1,321 million 2017: $987 million, of which 88% 2017: 93% relates to Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model expenditure to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which Certain of Glencores exploration tenements and licences require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development activities, captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
a significant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations.
As at 31 December 2018, $86 million Significant unobservable inputs: None 2017: $139 million of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 20% 2017: 36% are for commitments to be settled Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 2 Assets 34 83 over the next year.
Liabilities 69 53 Glencore procures seagoing vessels chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments.
As at Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model 31 December 2018, Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices of $335 million 2017: $247 million, of which $56 million 2017: $76 million are with associated companies.
70% 2017: 72% of the total in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which charters are for services to be received over the next two years.
captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None As part of Glencores ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the Call options over Glencore shares Level 2 Assets 51 selling party may request that a financial institution act as either a the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying Liabilities 51 documents through the issuance of a letter of credit or b the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility Valuation techniques and key inputs: Option pricing model: for Glencores contractual obligations.
Similarly, Glencore is required to post rehabilitation and pension guarantees in respect Current price of Glencore shares: of some of these future, primarily industrial, long-term obligations.
As at 31 December 2018, $10,842 million 2017: $10,995 million Strike price: of procurement and $3,692 million 2017: $3,615 million of rehabilitation and pension commitments have been issued on behalf of Glencore, which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity and rehabilitation and Maturity date of the underlying convertible debt security: pension obligations.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse storage facilities.
Rental expenses for Significant unobservable inputs: None these leases totalled respectively $179 million and $173 million for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017.
Future net minimum Accounts receivable and payable Level 2 Assets 6,471 lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Liabilities 15,073 US$ million 2018 2017 Comprised of trade receivables payables containing an embedded commodity derivative, Within 1 year 235 203 which are designated and measured at fair value through profit and loss until final settlement Between 2 5 years 482 401 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model After 5 years 335 189 Inputs include observable quoted commodity prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate Total 1,052 793 which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery.
Future net Non-discretionary dividend obligation Level 3 Assets minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows: Liabilities 188 513 Undiscounted minimum Present value of minimum Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model lease payments lease payments Significant unobservable inputs: Forecast commodity prices: US$ million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Discount rates using weighted average cost of Within 1 year 134 92 110 64 capital methodology: Between 1 and 5 years 203 255 151 182 Production models: After 5 years 174 209 126 146 Operating costs: and Total minimum lease payments 511 556 387 392 Capital expenditures.
Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 124 164 The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying mining Present value of minimum lease payments 387 392 387 392 operation.
Increases decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an increase decrease to the value of the liability though this will be partially offset by associated increases decreases in the assumed production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures which are inherently linked to Future development and related commitments forecast commodity prices.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and a 10% increase decrease in Ulan Coal Mines Limited commodity price assumptions would result in a $111 million adjustment to the current carrying On 17 December 2018, Glencore entered into an agreement to acquire the remaining 10% of Ulan Coal Mines Limited it does not value.
currently own for a total cash consideration of approximately $124 million.
The transaction closed at the end of February 2019.
204 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 205 205 Notes to the financial statements continued 31.
Contingent liabilities The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of third parties as at 31 December 2018 was $Nil 2017: $Nil.
The Group is subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings as detailed below.
These contingent liabilities are reviewed on a regular basis and where feasible an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group.
As at 31 December 2018 and 2017 it was not feasible to make such an assessment.
Legal and regulatory proceedings On 3 July 2018 Glencore announced that one of its subsidiaries had received a subpoena from the US Department of Justice DOJ to produce documents and other records with respect to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and United States money laundering statutes, in relation to Glencore Groups business in Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Venezuela, from 2007 to present.
Additionally, various securities class actions suits have been filed against Glencore plc in connection with the announcement of the DOJ subpoena.
Glencore plc has not been served with any of these complaints.
The existence, timing and amount of any future financial obligations such as fines, penalties or damages, which could be material or other consequences arising from the DOJ investigation or the class actions suits are unable to be determined at this time and no liability has been recognised in relation to these matters in the consolidated statement of financial position at the end of the reporting period.
Other legal and regulatory proceedings, claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore in respect of which the timing of resolution and potential outcome including any future financial obligations are uncertain and no liabilities have been recognised in relation to these matters.
Environmental contingencies Glencores operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations.
Glencore is not aware of any material noncompliance with those laws and regulations.
Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable.
Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.
Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain.
At this time, Glencore is unaware of any material environmental incidents at its locations.
Any potential liability arising from environmental incidents in the ordinary course of the Groups business would not usually be expected to have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
20 206 6 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 31.
Related party transactions The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of third parties as at 31 December 2018 was $Nil 2017: $Nil.
In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arms length transactions with related parties, including fixed price commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, agency agreements and management The Group is subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings as detailed below.
These contingent liabilities are reviewed on a service agreements.
Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash see notes 11, 13 and 24. regular basis and where feasible an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group.
As at 31 December 2018 and 2017 There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
it was not feasible to make such an assessment.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses Legal and regulatory proceedings between its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
In 2018, sales and purchases with associates and joint ventures amounted On 3 July 2018 Glencore announced that one of its subsidiaries had received a subpoena from the US Department of Justice DOJ to $1,690 million 2017: $1,859 million and $5,744 million 2017: $7,485 million respectively.
to produce documents and other records with respect to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and United States money laundering statutes, in relation to Glencore Groups business in Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Venezuela, Remuneration of key management personnel from 2007 to present.
Glencores key management personnel are the members of the Board of Directors, CEO, CFO and the heads of the operating segments.
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the consolidated Additionally, various securities class actions suits have been filed against Glencore plc in connection with the announcement of the statement of income including salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $22 million 2017: $22 million.
no other long-term benefits or share-based payments to key management personnel 2017: $Nil.
Further details on remuneration of Directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 113.
The existence, timing and amount of any future financial obligations such as fines, penalties or damages, which could be material or other consequences arising from the DOJ investigation or the class actions suits are unable to be determined at this time and no liability has been recognised in relation to these matters in the consolidated statement of financial position at the end of the reporting 33.
Principal subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests period.
Other legal and regulatory proceedings, claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore in respect of which the timing Non-controlling interest is comprised of the following: of resolution and potential outcome including any future financial obligations are uncertain and no liabilities have been recognised US$ million 2018 2017 in relation to these matters.
Volcan 1,608 1,733 Kazzinc 1,356 1,438 Environmental contingencies Koniambo 3,177 2,905 Glencores operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations.
Glencore is not aware of any material nonKatanga see KCC debt restructuring note below 11 965 compliance with those laws and regulations.
Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are 1 probable and reasonably estimable.
Recoveries Other 153 399 of environmental remediation costs from insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are Total 355 300 virtually certain.
Any potential liability arising 1 Other comprises various subsidiaries in which no individual balance attributable to non-controlling interests is material.
from environmental incidents in the ordinary course of the Groups business would not usually be expected to have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
KCC Debt Restructuring Kamoto Copper Company KCC, the 75% owned Katanga in turn 86% held by Glencore group entity carrying out mining activities in the DRC, had a significant net deficit balance sheet position that was required to be recapitalised under DRC law by 31 December 2017.
Notwithstanding the various discussions with KCCs state-owned minority partner, La Gnrale des Carrires et des Mines Gcamines over the past year, in April 2018, Gcamines commenced legal proceedings in the DRC to dissolve KCC, following KCCs failure to address its capital deficiency.
In June 2018, an agreement was reached with Gcamines to regularise the capital deficiency by converting $5.6 billion of existing intercompany debt owed by KCC to Katanga Mining Limited KML Group eliminated on consolidation into equity.
To ensure Gcamines 25% interest was not diluted contractually required, $1.4 billion 25% of the total debt converted to equity was effectively gifted by KML to Gcamines.
Under IFRS 10, changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the parent losing control of the subsidiary are equity transactions i. e. transactions with owners in their capacity as owners whereby the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
As a result of the debt for equity conversion transaction, the gifted portion of the converted debt resulted in a $1,207 million loss being recognised directly in other equity reserves, offset by a gain of an equal amount recognised in the non-controlling interests equity reserve account.
In addition, it was agreed to: Pay Gcamines $150 million to settle various historical commercial disputes: Fund, on behalf of Gcamines, $41 million of outstanding unpaid invoices for contractors in charge of an earlier replacement reserves program: and Waive KCCs right to $57 million of exploration and drilling expenditures incurred on behalf of Gcamines.
These amounts, totalling $248 million, have been expensed in the consolidated financial statements.
206 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 207 2 07 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Principal subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests continued Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest as at 31 December 2018, reflecting 100% of the underlying subsidiarys relevant figures, is set out below.
US$ million Kazzinc Koniambo Katanga Volcan 31 December 2018 Non-current assets 4,623 1,718 4,488 4,738 Current assets 972 338 899 387 Total assets 5,595 2,056 5,387 5,125 Non-current liabilities 855 11,044 6,354 1,910 Current liabilities 260 115 984 553 Total liabilities 1,115 11,159 7,338 2,463 Net assets 4,480 9,102 1,951 2,662 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,124 5,925 1,962 1,054 1 Non-controlling interests 1,356 3,177 11 1,608 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 51.0% 13.7% 76.7% 2018 Revenue 3,169 1,269 800 Expenses 2,737 533 2,033 950 Net profit loss for the year 432 533 764 150 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 301 261 587 35 1 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 131 272 177 115 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income loss for the year 432 533 764 150 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 211 13 Net cash inflow from operating activities 979 48 259 Net cash outflow from investing activities 319 215 377 217 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 854 205 296 81 Total net cash outflow 194 10 33 39 1 Glencore has an 86.3% interest in Katanga Mining Limited, which in turn has a 75% interest in Kamoto Copper Company KCC, the entity engaged in copper mining activities.
The non-controlling interests balance includes $321 million and the profit attributable to non-controlling interests balance includes negative $84 million related to non-controlling interests arising at the KCC level.
20 208 8 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Principal subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests continued 33.
Principal subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests continued Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest as at US$ million Kazzinc Koniambo Katanga Volcan 31 December 2018, reflecting 100% of the underlying subsidiarys relevant figures, is set out below.
31 December 2017 Non-current assets 4,659 1,502 4,333 4,754 US$ million Kazzinc Koniambo Katanga Volcan Current assets 1,234 314 889 423 31 December 2018 Total assets 5,893 1,816 5,222 5,177 Non-current assets 4,623 1,718 4,488 4,738 Non-current liabilities 763 10,273 3,760 1,789 Current assets 972 338 899 387 Current liabilities 378 112 2,593 562 Total assets 5,595 2,056 5,387 5,125 Total liabilities 1,141 10,385 6,353 2,351 Non-current liabilities 855 11,044 6,354 1,910 Net assets 4,752 8,569 1,131 2,826 Current liabilities 260 115 984 553 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,314 5,664 166 1,093 Total liabilities 1,115 11,159 7,338 2,463 1 Non-controlling interests 1,438 2,905 965 1,733 Net assets 4,480 9,102 1,951 2,662 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 51.0% 13.7% 76.7% Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,124 5,925 1,962 1,054 1 Non-controlling interests 1,356 3,177 11 1,608 2017 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 51.0% 13.7% 76.7% Revenue 3,078 25 160 Expenses 2,517 494 1,004 160 2018 Net profit loss for the year 561 494 979 Revenue 3,169 1,269 800 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 395 242 575 Expenses 2,737 533 2,033 950 1 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 166 252 404 Net profit loss for the year 432 533 764 150 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Profit attributable to owners of the Company 301 261 587 35 Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 1 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 131 272 177 115 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 561 494 979 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 124 Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 764 177 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 432 533 764 150 Net cash outflow from investing activities 196 241 369 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 211 13 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 511 256 583 Net cash inflow from operating activities 979 48 259 Total net cash inflow 57 15 37 Net cash outflow from investing activities 319 215 377 217 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 854 205 296 81 1 Glencore has an 86.3% interest in Katanga Mining Limited, which in turn has a 75% interest in Kamoto Copper Company KCC, the entity engaged in copper mining activities.
The non-controlling interests balance includes negative $939 million and the profit attributable to non-controlling interests balance includes negative $310 million related to Total net cash outflow 194 10 33 39 non-controlling interests arising at the KCC level.
1 Glencore has an 86.3% interest in Katanga Mining Limited, which in turn has a 75% interest in Kamoto Copper Company KCC, the entity engaged in copper mining activities.
Subsequent events In January 2019, the Group completed an acquisition of an additional 2.7% of Hail Creek for net consideration of $39 million.
In January 2019, following the lifting of sanctions by the United States Government over United Company Rusal plc Rusal and EN Group plc EN, Glencore agreed to exchange its 8.8% interest in Rusal for a 10.55% interest in EN.
The investment in EN will be classified and accounted on a basis similar to how the Rusal investment was accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income, see note 10.
In February 2019, Glencore announced a new $2 billion share buy-back programme that will run until 31 December 2019.
208 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 209 20 9 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and investments Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2018 2017 Main activity Principal subsidiaries Metals and minerals 1 Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua 50.0 50.0 Copper production Cobar Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Lomas Bayas Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Complejo Metalurgico Altonorte S. A. Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Minera Altos fide Punitaqui Limitada Chile 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Antapaccay S. A. Peru 100.0 100.0 Copper production Pasar Group Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production Glencore Recycling Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Copper production Mopani Copper Mines plc Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production 2 Katanga Mining Limited Canada 86.3 86.3 Copper Cobalt production Mutanda Group DRC 100.0 100.0 Copper Cobalt production Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper Zinc Lead production Kazzinc Ltd. Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production Zhairemsky GOK JSC Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production Vasilkovskoye Gold Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Gold production African Carbon Producers Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production African Fine Carbon Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Char Technology Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Sphere Minerals Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Iron Ore exploration Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Lead production Glencore Manganese Group France Norway 100.0 Manganese furnace Access World Group Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Logistics services Murrin Murrin Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production 3 Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. New Caledonia 49.0 49.0 Nickel production Glencore Nikkelverk AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Nickel production McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Nordenhammer Zinkhtte GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Asturiana fide Zinc S. A. Spain 100.0 100.0 Zinc production 4 Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. Peru 23.3 23.3 Zinc production AR Zinc Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Portovesme S. r. L. Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S. A. Peru 97.6 97.6 Zinc Lead production Sinchi Wayra Group Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc Tin production 1 This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to elect the chairman of the Board who has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the four board positions.
Minera Alumbrera Limiteds principal place of business is Argentina.
2 Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.
TO and principal place of business is DRC.
3 The Group has control of Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. as a result of the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the financing arrangements underlying the Koniambo project.
4 The Group has control of Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. as a result of the ability to control the entity through the voting of its 63.0% of the voting shares Class A : the economic interest is diluted by the outstanding non-voting shares Class B.
2 21 10 0 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and investments 35.
Principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and investments continued Country % interest % interest Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2018 2017 Main activity of incorporation 2018 2017 Main activity Principal subsidiaries Energy products Metals and minerals Oakbridge Pty Ltd Australia 78.0 78.0 Coal production 1 Glencore Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua 50.0 50.0 Copper production Cobar Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Mangoola Coal Operations Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Mt Owen Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Compania Minera Lomas Bayas Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Complejo Metalurgico Altonorte S. A. Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production NC Coal Company Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Ravensworth Operations Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Minera Altos fide Punitaqui Limitada Chile 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Antapaccay S. A. Peru 100.0 100.0 Copper production Prodeco Group Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production 5 Izimbiwa Coal Pty Ltd South Africa 49.9 49.9 Coal production Pasar Group Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production 6 Glencore Recycling Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Copper production Umcebo Mining Pty Ltd South Africa 48.7 48.7 Coal production Tavistock Collieries Pty Limited South Africa 100.0 100.0 Coal production Mopani Copper Mines plc Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Topley Corporation B. V. I.
100.0 100.0 Ship owner 2 Glencore Exploration Cameroon Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production Katanga Mining Limited Canada 86.3 86.3 Copper Cobalt production Mutanda Group DRC 100.0 100.0 Copper Cobalt production Glencore Exploration EG Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production Petrochad Mangara Limited Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil exploration production Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper Zinc Lead production Kazzinc Ltd. Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production ALE Combustiveis Brazil 78.0 Oil distribution Chemoil Energy Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Oil storage and bunkering Zhairemsky GOK JSC Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production Vasilkovskoye Gold Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Gold production Other operating and finance African Carbon Producers Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Xstrata Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Holding African Fine Carbon Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Glencore Australia Investment Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Char Technology Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Glencore Operations Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Sphere Minerals Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Iron Ore exploration Glencore Queensland Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Lead production Glencore Investment Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Manganese Group France Norway 100.0 Manganese furnace Glencore Australia Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Finance Access World Group Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Logistics services Glencore Finance Bermuda Ltd Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Finance Murrin Murrin Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production Glencore Canada Financial Corp Canada 100.0 100.0 Finance 3 Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. New Caledonia 49.0 49.0 Nickel production Glencore Finance Europe Limited Jersey 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Nikkelverk AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Nickel production Finges Investment B. V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Finance McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Glencore Schweiz AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Finance Nordenhammer Zinkhtte GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Glencore Group Funding Limited UAE 100.0 100.0 Finance Asturiana fide Zinc S. A. Spain 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Glencore Funding LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Finance 4 Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. Peru 23.3 23.3 Zinc production Glencore Australia Oil Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Operating AR Zinc Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Glencore Canada Corporation Canada 100.0 100.0 Operating Portovesme S. r. L. Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S. A. Peru 97.6 97.6 Zinc Lead production ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Sinchi Wayra Group Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc Tin production Glencore AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore International AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating 1 This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to elect the chairman of the Board who has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the four board Glencore Commodities Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating positions.
Glencore Energy UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating 3 The Group has control of Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. as a result of the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms Glencore UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating of the financing arrangements underlying the Koniambo project.
A. as a result of the ability to control the entity through the voting of its 63.0% of the voting shares Class A : the economic interest 5 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Izimbiwa through the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to is diluted by the outstanding non-voting shares Class B. appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the shareholders agreement.
6 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agreements which provide Glencore the ability to control the Board of Directors.
210 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 211 211 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and investments continued Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2018 2017 Main activity 7 Principal joint ventures Glencore Agriculture Limited Jersey 49.9 49.9 Agriculture business 8 Clermont Coal Group Australia 25.1 25.1 Coal production BaseCore Metals LP Canada 50.0 50.0 Copper production Compania Minera Dona Ines fide Collahuasi Chile 44.0 44.0 Copper production El Aouj Joint Venture Mauritania 50.0 50.0 Iron Ore production Principal joint operations and other 9 unincorporated arrangements United Joint Venture Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal exploration Wandoan Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration Bulga Joint Venture Australia 68.3 68.3 Coal production Cumnock Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production Foybrook Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Hail Creek Joint Venture Australia 82.0 Coal production Hunter Valley Operations Joint Venture Australia 49.0 Coal production Liddell Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production Rolleston Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production ARM Coal Pty Ltd. South Africa 49.0 49.0 Coal production Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Coal production Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd. Australia 70.0 70.0 Copper production Merafe Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 79.5 79.5 Ferroalloys production Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania 50.0 50.0 Nickel production Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa 38.0 Platinum production Rhovan Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Vanadium production Principal associates Carbones del Cerrejon LLC Colombia 33.3 33.3 Coal production Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia 13.0 29.7 Coal terminal Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd Australia 15.5 15.5 Coal terminal Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal Australia 20.0 20.0 Coal terminal Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa 20.2 20.2 Coal terminal Polymet Mining Corp. Canada 29.0 29.1 Copper production 10 Century Aluminum Company USA 47.2 47.4 Aluminium production HG Storage International Limited Jersey 49.0 49.0 Oil storage Noranda Income Fund Canada 25.0 25.0 Zinc production Trevali Mining Company Canada 25.6 25.6 Zinc production Compania Minera Antamina S. A. Peru 33.8 33.8 Zinc Copper production Recylex S. A. France 29.9 30.2 Zinc Lead production Other investments 11 United Company Rusal plc Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production 12 OAO NK Russneft Russia 25.0 25.0 Oil production 7 The principal joint arrangements are accounted for as joint ventures as the shareholder agreements do not provide the Group the ability to solely control the entities.
8 The Groups effective 25.05% economic interest in Clermont Coal is held through GS Coal Pty Ltd, a 50:50 joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation.
In 2019, it is expected that the Groups effective economic interest will increase to 37.1%, via GC Coals announced purchase of an additional interest.
9 Classified as joint operations under IFRS 11, as these joint arrangements are not structured through separate vehicles.
The Hail Creek interest is an other unincorporated arrangement accounted for similar to a joint operation.
10 Represents the Groups economic interest in Century, comprising 42.9% 2017: 42.9% voting interest and 4.3% non-voting interest 2017: 4.5%.
Century is publicly traded on NASDAQ under the symbol CENX.
11 In January 2019, the Group has agreed to swap its Rusal stake for a 10.55% interest in EN.
12 Although the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights in Russneft, it is unable to exercise significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions of Russneft.
2 21 12 2 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and investments continued Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2018 2017 Main activity 7 Principal joint ventures Glencore Agriculture Limited Jersey 49.9 49.9 Agriculture business 8 Clermont Coal Group Australia 25.1 25.1 Coal production BaseCore Metals LP Canada 50.0 50.0 Copper production Compania Minera Dona Ines fide Collahuasi Chile 44.0 44.0 Copper production El Aouj Joint Venture Mauritania 50.0 50.0 Iron Ore production Principal joint operations and other 9 unincorporated arrangements United Joint Venture Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal exploration Wandoan Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration Bulga Joint Venture Australia 68.3 68.3 Coal production Cumnock Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production Foybrook Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Hail Creek Joint Venture Australia 82.0 Coal production Additional Hunter Valley Operations Joint Venture Australia 49.0 Coal production Liddell Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production Rolleston Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production information Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production ARM Coal Pty Ltd. South Africa 49.0 49.0 Coal production Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Coal production Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd. Australia 70.0 70.0 Copper production Merafe Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 79.5 79.5 Ferroalloys production Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania 50.0 50.0 Nickel production Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa 38.0 Platinum production Rhovan Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Vanadium production Principal associates Carbones del Cerrejon LLC Colombia 33.3 33.3 Coal production Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia 13.0 29.7 Coal terminal Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd Australia 15.5 15.5 Coal terminal Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal Australia 20.0 20.0 Coal terminal Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa 20.2 20.2 Coal terminal Polymet Mining Corp. Canada 29.0 29.1 Copper production 10 Century Aluminum Company USA 47.2 47.4 Aluminium production HG Storage International Limited Jersey 49.0 49.0 Oil storage Noranda Income Fund Canada 25.0 25.0 Zinc production Trevali Mining Company Canada 25.6 25.6 Zinc production Compania Minera Antamina S. A. Peru 33.8 33.8 Zinc Copper production Recylex S. A. France 29.9 30.2 Zinc Lead production Other investments 11 United Company Rusal plc Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production 12 OAO NK Russneft Russia 25.0 25.0 Oil production 7 The principal joint arrangements are accounted for as joint ventures as the shareholder agreements do not provide the Group the ability to solely control the entities.
In 2019, it is expected that the Alternative performance measures 214 Groups effective economic interest will increase to 37.1%, via GC Coals announced purchase of an additional interest.
Other reconciliations 219 9 Classified as joint operations under IFRS 11, as these joint arrangements are not structured through separate vehicles.
Production by quarter Q4 2017 to Q4 2018 221 10 Represents the Groups economic interest in Century, comprising 42.9% 2017: 42.9% voting interest and 4.3% non-voting interest 2017: 4.5%.
Resources and reserves 228 11 In January 2019, the Group has agreed to swap its Rusal stake for a 10.55% interest in EN.
Shareholder information 236 12 Although the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights in Russneft, it is unable to exercise significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions of Russneft.
212 Glencore Annual Report 2018 G Gl le en nc co or re e A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 18 8 2 213 13
