STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes are 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers charged to operating costs in the income statement as they fall due.
continued IFRS 15 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard establishes the principles that an entity is required to apply regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer.
The new Bus schemes Rail schemes model is based on a five step approach which identifies whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is The Groups Train Operating Companies TOCs participate in the Railways Pensions Scheme RPS, which is an industry-wide defined The Group has reviewed the major revenue streams across the Group in line with the five step approach and indentified that in both our rail determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current benefit scheme.
The Group is obligated to fund the relevant section and bus divisions, our contracted customers are easily recognised, performance obligations are clear and transaction prices are even over of the scheme over the period for which the franchise is held.
the period to which they relate and are time apportioned.
As a result it is not currently expected that there will be a material impact on the period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit Groups financial statements for the year ending 29 June 2019 or in future periods.
All the costs, and any deficit or surplus, are shared 60% by the obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Net interest is employer and 40% by the members.
In addition, at the end of IFRS 16 Leases calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined the franchise, any deficit or surplus in the scheme passes to the benefit liability or asset.
IFRS 16 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The standard establishes principles for the recognition, measurement, subsequent franchisee with no compensating payments from or to presentation and disclosure of leases.
An initial assessment has been carried out and determined IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the Remeasurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect the outgoing franchise holder.
The Groups obligations are therefore Groups balance sheet.
Due to the extensive nature of leasing of rolling stock and other items in the rail business, the Group will continue to of the asset ceiling excluding net interest and the return on plan limited to its contributions payable to the schemes during the period assess the impact of the standard, and will provide further quantitative data as we approach implementation in the year ended June 2020. over which it operates the franchise.
assets excluding net interest are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Segmental analysis The accounting treatment for such pensions scheme is not The Groups businesses are managed on a divisional basis.
Selected financial data is presented on this basis below.
The current service cost is recognised in the income statement explicitly considered by IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised.
The net interest expense or income is However, since the contributions currently committed to being For management purposes, the Group is organised into three reportable segments: regional bus, London bus and rail.
Operating segments recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
paid to each TOC section are lower than the share of the service cost within those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and similar nature of their products and for current and future service that would normally be calculated services, as follows: The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet under IAS 19 Revised, the Group does not account for uncommitted comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined The regional bus division comprises UK bus operations outside London.
contributions towards the sections current or expected future benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality deficits.
This reflects the legal position that some of the existing The London bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of Transport for London TfL, rail replacement and other corporate bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the deficit and some of the service costs in the current year will be contracted services in London, bus operations in Singapore under control of the Land Transport Authority LTA of Singapore and bus obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market funded in future years beyond the term of the current franchise.
operations in Ireland under the control of the National Transport Authority NTA of Ireland.
The Irish operations are currently being price information and in the case of quoted securities is the As a result, the Group consequently reduces any section deficit mobilised.
These are aggregated as a segment given the similar contractual nature of the business.
balance that would otherwise remain after reflecting the cost sharing with the members and reduces any service costs that The rail division comprises UK and overseas rail operations.
The UK rail operation through an intermediate holding company, Govia Limited, Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on would give rise to an increase in such deficit through the use of a is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises two rail franchises: Southeastern and GTR.
The division is aggregated for the the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and franchise adjustment with movements in that franchise adjustment, purpose of segmental reporting under IFRS 8 as each operating company has similar objectives, to provide passenger rail services and the date that the Group recognises  costs.
meaning that the service costs appropriately reflect contracted achieve a modest profit margin through its franchise arrangements with the Department for Transport DfT.
Each company targets similar When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already contributions resulting over the term of the franchise.
margins, has similar economic risks and is viewed and reacted to as one segment by the chief operating decision maker, considered to be accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of the Group Chief Executive.
The registered office of Keolis UK Limited is in England and Wales.
a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in Please refer to note 27 Retirement benefit obligations for future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets further details.
Overseas rail operations are currently being mobilised in Germany and are 100% owned by Go-Ahead.
The German rail franchises are are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the included with the UK rail operations for reporting purposes and will be considered in further detail when operational in June 2019. resultant gain or loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets and liabilities and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented.
New standards and interpretations not applied Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs periods beginning on or after IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2021 IFRS 4 amendments Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2018 IAS 40 amendments Transfers of Investment Property 1 January 2018 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advanced Consideration 1 January 2018 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 The directors do not anticipate adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements, except as noted below: IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard is split into three areas: classification and measurement, impairment and hedging.
The Group have assessed that IFRS 9 is unlikely to have any material impact on the classification and measurement of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group.
IFRS 9 states that impairment provisions should be based on expected credit losses rather than incurred credit losses.
The Group has assessed the closing balances as at 30 June 2018 and assesses that there is no material adjustment in impairment provisions.
Finally, the Group has assessed the impact of the standard on its hedging instruments, which comprise fuel derivatives, and it has been assessed that the hedging instruments will continue to be effective under IFRS 9 and there will therefore be no material changes.
140 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 141 122 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
