STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 1.
Company accounting policies Critical accounting judgements and key sources the financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law of estimation uncertainty Authorisation of financial statements and statement of and regulations.
The preparation of the financial statements requires management compliance with FRS101 Company law requires the directors to prepare financial to make estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts The Company financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc for statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other the year ended 30 June 2018 were authorised for issue by the Board have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on of directors on 5 September 2018 and the balance sheet was signed with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice historical experience and other factors that are considered to be on the Boards behalf by Patrick Butcher.
The Go-Ahead Group plc United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
is a public limited company that is incorporated and domiciled in including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under rd England and Wales.
The registered office is 3 Floor, 41-51 Grey The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an company law the directors must not approve the financial Street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, NE1 6EE.
The Companys ordinary ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and it is the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or not under the control of any single shareholder.
that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial revision affects both current and future periods.
Although these statements, the directors are required to: These financial statements were prepared in accordance with judgements and estimates are based on managements best Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework select suitable accounting policies and then apply knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
FRS101 and in line with the recognition and measurement criteria them consistently: of IFRS.
Critical judgements in applying the Companys accounting make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable policies and prudent: No profit or loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards The following are the critical judgements, apart from those have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed involving estimations, that the directors have made in the Basis of preparation and explained in the financial statements: and process of applying the Companys accounting policies and that prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will the financial statements: continue in business.
Uninsured claims The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The financial statements are prepared under the historical The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an cost convention.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys assessment of both the expected settlement of known claims and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling and are of the cost of claims not yet reported to the Company, as detailed financial position of the Company, and to enable them to ensure that rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m.
In order to assess the appropriate level of provisions the the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They Company engages with its brokers and claims handlers to ensure are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company In these financial statements, the Company has applied external expertise of our claims development history is adequately and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and the exemptions available under FRS101 in respect of the built into the provision.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
following disclosures and standards not yet effective: Key sources of estimation uncertainty The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The requirements of paragraph 45 b and 46-52 of IFRS2 Share the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Based Payment The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and The requirements of paragraphs 62, B64 b, B64 e, B64 g, B64 h, and dissemination of financial statements may differ from B64 j to B64 m, b64 n ii, B64 o ii, B64 p, B64 Q ii, B66 and liabilities within the next financial year are in relation to: legislation in other jurisdictions.
B67 of IFRS3 Business Combinations Retirement benefit obligations The requirement of IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires The requirement of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS13 Fair the estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity Value Measurement of current and deferred members and the selection of a suitable The requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS1 Presentation of Financial discount rate, as set out in note 14.
The Company engages with Statements to present comparative information in respect of: Willis Towers Watson, a global professional services company paragraph 79 a iv of IAS1 whose specialisms include actuarial advice, to support the process paragraph 73 e of IAS16 Property, Plant and Equipment of establishing reasonable bases for all of these estimates, to paragraph 118 e of IAS38 Intangible Assets ensure they are appropriate to our particular circumstances.
The requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 39 c, 40A, Accounting policies 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revenue recognition The requirements of IAS7 Statement of Cashflows Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that The requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS8 Accounting the income will flow to the Company and the value can be Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the The requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS24 Related consideration received or receivable and comprises intercompany Party Disclosures management charges and property rental.
The requirements in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose Tangible assets related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member: and on transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any The requirements of paragraphs 134 d -134 f and 135 c -135 e of impairment in value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
184 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 185 166 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
