STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The preparation of the financial statements requires management circumstances, based on managements view of the most likely 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement Basis of consolidation to make judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these outcome of individual claims.
The Group has significant internal of compliance with International Financial Reporting The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial judgements and estimates are based on managements best expertise to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements Standards IFRSs statements of Group and its subsidiaries as at 30 June 2018. knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
and the issues relating to delay attribution to enable management The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc to assess the most probable outcomes, nonetheless significant Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is Critical accounting judgements the Group for the year ended 30 June 2018 were authorised for transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the judgements are required, which can have material impacts on issue by the Board of directors on 5 September 2018 and the The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving the financial statements.
date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The financial balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Andrew Allner estimations, that the directors have made in the process of applying statements of subsidiaries for use in the consolidation are prepared Accordingly judgements in these and other areas are made on a and Patrick Butcher.
The Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based continuing basis with regard to amounts due and the recoverable company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: on consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances and carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising from in England and Wales.
The Groups ordinary shares are publicly transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intrafranchises and other contracts.
Regular reviews are performed Exceptional operating items traded on the London Stock Exchange and it is not under the group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
on the expected outcome of these arrangements, which require control of any single shareholder.
In certain years the Group presents as exceptional operating items assessments and judgements relating to the expected level of Non-controlling interests represent the equity interests not held on the face of the income statement, material items of revenue or The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been revenues and costs.
The GTR franchise is complex and there are by the Group in Govia Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, and are expense which, because of the size or the nature and expected prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European a number of contractual discussions underway with the DfT that presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate Union EU as they apply to the consolidated financial statements have a range of reasonably possible outcomes.
Managements separately from shareholders equity.
presentation to allow better understanding of financial performance.
of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2018, and applied in judgements are that, relating to events up to 30 June 2018, the The determination of whether items merit treatment as exceptional Joint ventures represent the 50% equity interest held by the Group in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. impact on rail profitability of these outcomes is likely to be within in a particular year is therefore a matter of judgement.
respect of On Track Retail Limited, which is accounted for as a joint a range of plus or minus 5m.
The Group is required to comply with IFRSs under IAS 1 arrangement as below, and disclosures are limited in this annual During the year, the following items have been classified as Presentation of Financial Statements, except in extremely rare Following the implementation of a revised timetable in May, the report as the business is currently immaterial to the Group.
exceptional and further details are given in note 7, a gain on the circumstances where management concludes that compliance performance of GTR services has been below certain contractual change in pension plan assumptions from RPI to CPI, certain Joint arrangements would be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective to thresholds.
These shortfalls are in large measure attributable to goodwill and asset impairments and provisions in respect of present fairly its financial statements.
failings across the industry and are not the sole responsibility of GTR.
A joint arrangement is defined as an arrangement by which two an ongoing HMRC capital allowances taxation enquiry.
or more parties have joint control and rights to the net assets.
Discussions are continuing with the DfT to apportion accountability 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies There were no exceptional items in the comparative year.
It is possible that the DfT will determine that a Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control, which Basis of preparation exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require sufficient part of these failings are down to GTR and that it is in breach Accounting for the rail pension schemes of its contractual obligations.
At that point, the DfT may choose, as is unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Interests in joint This note details the accounting policies which have been applied The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a arrangements are accounted for as either a joint venture or a joint usual, to require the production of a Remedial Plan and or seek to in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
New accounting defined benefit pension scheme which covers the whole of the impose penalties or may seek to terminate the contract.
operation in accordance with IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
standards and interpretations which require adoption in future years UK rail industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is have also been listed and our current view of the impact they will A joint arrangement is accounted for as a joint venture when the In the event of a termination, it is possible that there will be costs responsible for the funding of these schemes whilst it operates the have on financial reporting.
that the DfT will seek to recover from GTR.
These are not possible Group, along with other parties have joint control and rights to the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by net assets of the arrangement.
Joint ventures are equity accounted to estimate at this stage and in any event would be contested.
GTR The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost most businesses the RPS is a shared cost scheme which means continues to work hard to further stabilise and improve services in accordance with IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint convention, as modified by the fair value of financial instruments.
that costs are formally shared 60% employer 40% employee.
A joint arrangement is accounted for as a joint for customers and remains committed to working with the DfT to Group only recognises its share of costs in the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds resolve both the long outstanding contract variations which support operation when the Group, along with other parties have joint sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred control of the arrangement, rights to the assets and obligations Uninsured claims the delivery of new services and will address remaining contractual thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Joint operations The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment are accounted for by including the Groups share of the assets, of both the expected settlement of known claims and of the cost of Going concern Contract and franchise accounting specific to the rail business is liabilities, income and expense on a line by line basis.
claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24.
In order disclosed in the segmental analysis in note 3.
The directors have considered the Groups current and future to assess the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with prospects, risks and uncertainties set out in the risk management Revenue recognition Measurement of franchise commitments its brokers and claims handlers to ensure external expertise is objectives and policies, and its availability of financing, and are Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the adequately factored in to the provision for known claims.
The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising satisfied that the Group can continue to pay its liabilities as they fall income will flow to the Group and the value can be reliably measured.
dilapidation provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and due for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received Key sources of estimation uncertainty also income claims from other rail franchise operators, is set of these financial statements.
For this reason, the directors continue or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk out in note 24.
Significant elements of the provisions required are to adopt the going concern basis of preparation for these financial taxes or duty.
of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and subject to interpretation of franchise agreements and rolling stock statements.
Further information is detailed in the directors report.
liabilities within the next financial year are in relation to: agreements.
The Group has significant internal expertise to assess Rendering of services New standards and manage these aspects of the agreements and to enable The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger Contract and franchise accounting management to assess the most probable outcomes.
Where The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory for transport and rail passenger transport.
The commercial entities in the UK rail industry were created at appropriate, and specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, the first time for the financial year ended 30 June 2018: the time of privatisation and the relationships between them are Within bus revenue, London bus comprises contractual income this process is supported by valuations from professional external Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative governed by a number of contracts between the major participants, from government bodies which is recognised in the period to which advisors to support provision levels.
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for the DfT, Network Rail and train operating companies.
In regional bus, revenue generated from ticket sales is Unrealised Losses contracts include detailed performance regimes which determine Retirement benefit obligations Bus schemes recognised in income on receipt of cash or card payment.
Revenue Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 Cycle the allocation of financial responsibility relating to the attribution The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the generated from services provided on behalf of local transport of delays.
The processes for attribution, whilst well understood, authorities is also recognised as income in the period to which estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current Reflecting the nature of the Group, adoption of these new standards require detailed assessment and can take significant time to and deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, it relates.
and interpretations had no material impact on the financial position resolve, particularly in unusual circumstances.
The Group engages Willis Towers Watson, a or reported performance of the Group.
global professional services company whose specialisms include The Group makes provision for income and costs relating to actuarial advice, to support the process of establishing reasonable performance regimes and contractual obligations relating to bases for all of these estimates, to ensure they are appropriate to operating delays caused by Network Rail, or caused by our the Groups particular circumstances.
Management also benchmark own operating companies.
This process can be based primarily these assumptions on a periodic basis with other professional advisors.
on previous experience of settling such claims, or, in certain 134 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 135 116 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
