STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The preparation of the financial statements requires management circumstances, based on managements view of the most likely 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement Basis of consolidation to make judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these outcome of individual claims.
The Group has significant internal of compliance with International Financial Reporting The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial judgements and estimates are based on managements best expertise to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements Standards IFRSs statements of Group and its subsidiaries as at 30 June 2018. knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
and the issues relating to delay attribution to enable management The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc to assess the most probable outcomes, nonetheless significant Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is Critical accounting judgements the Group for the year ended 30 June 2018 were authorised for transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the judgements are required, which can have material impacts on issue by the Board of directors on 5 September 2018 and the The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving the financial statements.
date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The financial balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Andrew Allner estimations, that the directors have made in the process of applying statements of subsidiaries for use in the consolidation are prepared Accordingly judgements in these and other areas are made on a and Patrick Butcher.
The Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based continuing basis with regard to amounts due and the recoverable company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: on consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances and carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising from in England and Wales.
The Groups ordinary shares are publicly transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intrafranchises and other contracts.
Regular reviews are performed Exceptional operating items traded on the London Stock Exchange and it is not under the group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
on the expected outcome of these arrangements, which require control of any single shareholder.
In certain years the Group presents as exceptional operating items assessments and judgements relating to the expected level of Non-controlling interests represent the equity interests not held on the face of the income statement, material items of revenue or The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been revenues and costs.
The GTR franchise is complex and there are by the Group in Govia Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, and are expense which, because of the size or the nature and expected prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European a number of contractual discussions underway with the DfT that presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate Union EU as they apply to the consolidated financial statements have a range of reasonably possible outcomes.
Managements separately from shareholders equity.
presentation to allow better understanding of financial performance.
of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2018, and applied in judgements are that, relating to events up to 30 June 2018, the The determination of whether items merit treatment as exceptional Joint ventures represent the 50% equity interest held by the Group in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. impact on rail profitability of these outcomes is likely to be within in a particular year is therefore a matter of judgement.
respect of On Track Retail Limited, which is accounted for as a joint a range of plus or minus 5m.
The Group is required to comply with IFRSs under IAS 1 arrangement as below, and disclosures are limited in this annual During the year, the following items have been classified as Presentation of Financial Statements, except in extremely rare Following the implementation of a revised timetable in May, the report as the business is currently immaterial to the Group.
exceptional and further details are given in note 7, a gain on the circumstances where management concludes that compliance performance of GTR services has been below certain contractual change in pension plan assumptions from RPI to CPI, certain Joint arrangements would be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective to thresholds.
These shortfalls are in large measure attributable to goodwill and asset impairments and provisions in respect of present fairly its financial statements.
failings across the industry and are not the sole responsibility of GTR.
A joint arrangement is defined as an arrangement by which two an ongoing HMRC capital allowances taxation enquiry.
or more parties have joint control and rights to the net assets.
Discussions are continuing with the DfT to apportion accountability 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies There were no exceptional items in the comparative year.
It is possible that the DfT will determine that a Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control, which Basis of preparation exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require sufficient part of these failings are down to GTR and that it is in breach Accounting for the rail pension schemes of its contractual obligations.
At that point, the DfT may choose, as is unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Interests in joint This note details the accounting policies which have been applied The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a arrangements are accounted for as either a joint venture or a joint usual, to require the production of a Remedial Plan and or seek to in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
New accounting defined benefit pension scheme which covers the whole of the impose penalties or may seek to terminate the contract.
operation in accordance with IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
standards and interpretations which require adoption in future years UK rail industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is have also been listed and our current view of the impact they will A joint arrangement is accounted for as a joint venture when the In the event of a termination, it is possible that there will be costs responsible for the funding of these schemes whilst it operates the have on financial reporting.
that the DfT will seek to recover from GTR.
These are not possible Group, along with other parties have joint control and rights to the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by net assets of the arrangement.
Joint ventures are equity accounted to estimate at this stage and in any event would be contested.
GTR The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost most businesses the RPS is a shared cost scheme which means continues to work hard to further stabilise and improve services in accordance with IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint convention, as modified by the fair value of financial instruments.
that costs are formally shared 60% employer 40% employee.
A joint arrangement is accounted for as a joint for customers and remains committed to working with the DfT to Group only recognises its share of costs in the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds resolve both the long outstanding contract variations which support operation when the Group, along with other parties have joint sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred control of the arrangement, rights to the assets and obligations Uninsured claims the delivery of new services and will address remaining contractual thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Joint operations The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment are accounted for by including the Groups share of the assets, of both the expected settlement of known claims and of the cost of Going concern Contract and franchise accounting specific to the rail business is liabilities, income and expense on a line by line basis.
claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24.
In order disclosed in the segmental analysis in note 3.
The directors have considered the Groups current and future to assess the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with prospects, risks and uncertainties set out in the risk management Revenue recognition Measurement of franchise commitments its brokers and claims handlers to ensure external expertise is objectives and policies, and its availability of financing, and are Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the adequately factored in to the provision for known claims.
The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising satisfied that the Group can continue to pay its liabilities as they fall income will flow to the Group and the value can be reliably measured.
dilapidation provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and due for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received Key sources of estimation uncertainty also income claims from other rail franchise operators, is set of these financial statements.
For this reason, the directors continue or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk out in note 24.
Significant elements of the provisions required are to adopt the going concern basis of preparation for these financial taxes or duty.
of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and subject to interpretation of franchise agreements and rolling stock statements.
Further information is detailed in the directors report.
liabilities within the next financial year are in relation to: agreements.
The Group has significant internal expertise to assess Rendering of services New standards and manage these aspects of the agreements and to enable The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger Contract and franchise accounting management to assess the most probable outcomes.
Where The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory for transport and rail passenger transport.
The commercial entities in the UK rail industry were created at appropriate, and specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, the first time for the financial year ended 30 June 2018: the time of privatisation and the relationships between them are Within bus revenue, London bus comprises contractual income this process is supported by valuations from professional external Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative governed by a number of contracts between the major participants, from government bodies which is recognised in the period to which advisors to support provision levels.
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for the DfT, Network Rail and train operating companies.
In regional bus, revenue generated from ticket sales is Unrealised Losses contracts include detailed performance regimes which determine Retirement benefit obligations Bus schemes recognised in income on receipt of cash or card payment.
Revenue Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 Cycle the allocation of financial responsibility relating to the attribution The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the generated from services provided on behalf of local transport of delays.
The processes for attribution, whilst well understood, authorities is also recognised as income in the period to which estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current Reflecting the nature of the Group, adoption of these new standards require detailed assessment and can take significant time to and deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, it relates.
and interpretations had no material impact on the financial position resolve, particularly in unusual circumstances.
The Group engages Willis Towers Watson, a or reported performance of the Group.
global professional services company whose specialisms include The Group makes provision for income and costs relating to actuarial advice, to support the process of establishing reasonable performance regimes and contractual obligations relating to bases for all of these estimates, to ensure they are appropriate to operating delays caused by Network Rail, or caused by our the Groups particular circumstances.
Management also benchmark own operating companies.
This process can be based primarily these assumptions on a periodic basis with other professional advisors.
on previous experience of settling such claims, or, in certain 134 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 135 116 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 117 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED a deferred income account and is released to the income statement 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Leases Business combinations and goodwill over the expected useful life of the relevant asset.
continued Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the Combinations revised using the acquisition method.
The cost of Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed Franchise set-up costs asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase contracts are an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and capitalised in the balance sheet, with a corresponding liability being transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount which administers the income allocation system within the UK securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK.
recognised, and are depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts and other related All franchise bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred and the lease terms.
measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or services such as rolling stock maintenance and commission on bidder status are treated as an expense in the income statement at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable assets, is tickets sold.
In addition, franchise subsidy receipts from the DfT and irrespective of the ultimate outcome of the bid.
Directly attributable, The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs local Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue, incremental costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder status purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
whereas franchise premium payments to the DfT are recognised in or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible operating costs.
In relation to the GTR franchise, passenger revenue The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the asset and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial income statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase is collected and remitted to the DfT net of management charges franchise franchise extension, which ranges from 7 to 13 years.
assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and payable by DfT as revenue.
contracts and represents a constant proportion of the balance of designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic capital repayments outstanding.
Share based payment transactions circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of customers journey or for other services based on the proportion of to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by contracts by the acquiree.
The attributable share of season ticket or travel ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating an external valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation card income is deferred within liabilities and released to the income Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer equity-settled options, conditions are linked to some or all of the statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travel card.
of lease incentives and initial direct costs in securing leases, are will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent following: the price of the shares of the Group market conditions : charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is Rental income conditions not related to performance or service non-vesting lease term.
deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance conditions : performance conditions a vesting condition : Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and with IAS 39 in the income statement.
Taxation and service conditions a vesting condition.
subleasing of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
It is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which Profit and revenue sharing support agreements on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with when the related asset is realised or the liability is settled, based The rail companies have certain revenue and profit sharing interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense agreements with the DfT.
An accrual is made within amounts on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held recognised at each reporting date reflects the extent to which the enacted at the balance sheet date.
payable to central government for the estimated cost to the Group of equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of period to vesting has expired and the directors best estimate of the relevant amounts accrued at the balance sheet date.
Payments the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary are charged to operating costs.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in instrument subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets transactions separate from the business combinations, such as as vesting as described above.
This includes any award where nonRevenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years and liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition vesting conditions within the control of the Group or the employee of a franchise.
Receipts are shown in revenue.
It is provided for on all temporary remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from are not met.
differences, except: the business combination in accordance with their nature and Property, plant and equipment No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either On the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the contractual-legal or separability criterion, are recognised on transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any non-vesting condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable impairment in value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, profit or loss: and present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair provided that all other performance and or service conditions are value can be measured reliably.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually.
consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the nonrecognised for the award is recognised immediately.
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved Depreciation is charged on all additions to, or disposals of, depreciating assets in the year of purchase or disposal and over in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously Exceptional operating items Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the their expected useful life on a straight-line basis as follows: probable that the temporary differences will be reversed in the The Group presents as exceptional operating items on the face of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available to allow all the income statement, material items of revenue or expense which, Leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The carrying because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the is recognised in the income statement.
Freehold buildings Over 50 to 100 years amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that better understanding of financial performance.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment Finance revenue deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances correlation with the underlying transaction.
Otherwise, tax is benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment Interest-bearing loans and borrowings or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit recognised in the income statement.
in value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the Software the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue Government grants lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for costs.
Following initial recognition the carrying amount is measured internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortisation as an intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and segment before aggregation.
is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all of liabilities and any gains and losses arising on the repurchase, any impairment in value.
Amortisation is charged to the income attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates settlement or other fide-recognition of debt are recognised directly statement evenly over its expected useful life of three to five years.
to an expense item, it is recognised in operating costs within in the income statement.
the income statement over the period necessary to match on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to 136 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 137 118 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 119 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Inventories Fair value measurement classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, continued Inventories of fuel and engineering spares are valued at the lower of The Group measures financial instruments derivatives and noncharacteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level cost and net realisable value on a first in first out basis after making financial assets at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
due allowance for obsolete and slow moving items.
Cost comprises of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated direct materials and costs incurred in bringing the items to their in note 23. with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of Provisions present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal the estimated selling price less costs of sale.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, Cash and cash equivalents portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
If the effect is Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at transfer the liability takes place either: material, expected future cashflows are discounted using a current Customer contracts bank and in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow Customer contracts relate to the value attributed to contracts and In the principal market for the asset or liability, or the liability.
statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
The In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
value is based on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of market for the asset or liability Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, acquisition.
Customer contracts have a residual value of nil and the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible Financial assets and derivatives are amortised on a straight-line basis over the unexpired contract recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision to the Group.
The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with term, which is determined on an individual customer basis.
The is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
fuel price fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks amortisation expense is taken to the income statement as Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives are unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the initially recognised at fair value by reference to market values for asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their The Group provides for property, station and fleet dilapidations, Impairment of assets similar instruments, and subsequently re-measured at fair value economic best interest.
where appropriate, based on the future expected repair costs at each balance sheet date.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an required to restore them to their fair condition at the end of their A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. respective lease terms, where it is considered a reliable estimate account a market participants ability to generate economic exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, being can be made.
benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount, the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not it to another market participant that would use the asset in its being the higher of the assets or cash-generating units fair value Uninsured liabilities recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable highest and best use.
less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is determined for transaction costs.
The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in public liability claims through insurance policies issued by third that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to parties.
These provide individual claim cover, subject to high designated and effective as hedges of future cashflows are assets, and the estimated future cashflows are discounted to their measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable excess limits for total claims within the excess limits.
A provision present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
is recognised for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When the market assessments of the time value of money and the risks for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or specific to the asset.
cashflow hedge results in the recognition of a non-financial asset disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the or a liability, then at the time that asset or liability is recognised, the The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been professional advice and is based on an assessment of the expected amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial settlement on known claims, together with an estimate of to its recoverable amount.
measurement of that non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts Impairment losses including goodwill impairment of continuing prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet been reported identical assets or liabilities: deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense to the Group by the insurer.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or Treasury shares assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is indirectly observable: and For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, are any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, deducted from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated costs that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable income statement as they arise.
are also recognised in shareholders funds as a separate reserve the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is for own shares.
Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or cancellation of the Groups shares is transferred from the reserve estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by rethe last impairment loss was recognised.
Goodwill impairment otherwise no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point for own shares to revenue reserves.
assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument losses are not reversed.
The reinstated amount cannot exceed significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of Investments the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of recognised in other comprehensive income is kept in equity until the each reporting period.
forecast transaction occurs, at which point it is taken to the income Investments are held at cost.
depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge statement or included in the initial carrying amount of the related At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the Retirement benefits non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged transaction is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying values of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured The Group operates a number of pension schemes, both defined amount, on a systematic basis less any residual value, over its is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss or re-assessed as per the Groups accounting policies.
For this recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to benefit and defined contribution.
The costs of these are recognised remaining useful life.
analysis, the Group verifies the major inputs applied in the latest in the income statement.
valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation Non-current assets held for sale to contracts and other relevant documents.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Nonand liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount change is reasonable.
will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the When required, the Group presents the valuation results to the audit sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale committee.
This includes a discussion of the major assumptions in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale used in the valuations.
which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
138 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 139 120 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
