STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 1.
Company accounting policies Critical accounting judgements and key sources the financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law of estimation uncertainty Authorisation of financial statements and statement of and regulations.
The preparation of the financial statements requires management compliance with FRS101 Company law requires the directors to prepare financial to make estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts The Company financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc for statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other the year ended 30 June 2018 were authorised for issue by the Board have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on of directors on 5 September 2018 and the balance sheet was signed with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice historical experience and other factors that are considered to be on the Boards behalf by Patrick Butcher.
The Go-Ahead Group plc United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
is a public limited company that is incorporated and domiciled in including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under rd England and Wales.
The registered office is 3 Floor, 41-51 Grey The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an company law the directors must not approve the financial Street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, NE1 6EE.
The Companys ordinary ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and it is the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or not under the control of any single shareholder.
that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial revision affects both current and future periods.
Although these statements, the directors are required to: These financial statements were prepared in accordance with judgements and estimates are based on managements best Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework select suitable accounting policies and then apply knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
FRS101 and in line with the recognition and measurement criteria them consistently: of IFRS.
Critical judgements in applying the Companys accounting make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable policies and prudent: No profit or loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards The following are the critical judgements, apart from those have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed involving estimations, that the directors have made in the Basis of preparation and explained in the financial statements: and process of applying the Companys accounting policies and that prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will the financial statements: continue in business.
Uninsured claims The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The financial statements are prepared under the historical The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an cost convention.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys assessment of both the expected settlement of known claims and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling and are of the cost of claims not yet reported to the Company, as detailed financial position of the Company, and to enable them to ensure that rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m.
In order to assess the appropriate level of provisions the the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They Company engages with its brokers and claims handlers to ensure are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company In these financial statements, the Company has applied external expertise of our claims development history is adequately and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and the exemptions available under FRS101 in respect of the built into the provision.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
following disclosures and standards not yet effective: Key sources of estimation uncertainty The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The requirements of paragraph 45 b and 46-52 of IFRS2 Share the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Based Payment The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and The requirements of paragraphs 62, B64 b, B64 e, B64 g, B64 h, and dissemination of financial statements may differ from B64 j to B64 m, b64 n ii, B64 o ii, B64 p, B64 Q ii, B66 and liabilities within the next financial year are in relation to: legislation in other jurisdictions.
B67 of IFRS3 Business Combinations Retirement benefit obligations The requirement of IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires The requirement of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS13 Fair the estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity Value Measurement of current and deferred members and the selection of a suitable The requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS1 Presentation of Financial discount rate, as set out in note 14.
The Company engages with Statements to present comparative information in respect of: Willis Towers Watson, a global professional services company paragraph 79 a iv of IAS1 whose specialisms include actuarial advice, to support the process paragraph 73 e of IAS16 Property, Plant and Equipment of establishing reasonable bases for all of these estimates, to paragraph 118 e of IAS38 Intangible Assets ensure they are appropriate to our particular circumstances.
The requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 39 c, 40A, Accounting policies 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revenue recognition The requirements of IAS7 Statement of Cashflows Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that The requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS8 Accounting the income will flow to the Company and the value can be Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the The requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS24 Related consideration received or receivable and comprises intercompany Party Disclosures management charges and property rental.
The requirements in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose Tangible assets related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member: and on transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any The requirements of paragraphs 134 d -134 f and 135 c -135 e of impairment in value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
184 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 185 166 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 167 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Company accounting policies continued Share based payments Uninsured liabilities Financial instruments Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on deemed The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference The Company limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer The Company uses interest derivatives to hedge its risks cost or valuation, less estimated residual value of each asset, evenly to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by and public liability claims through insurance policies issued by third associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives are over its expected useful life as follows: an external valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
These provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess initially recognised at fair value by reference to market values for equity-settled options, conditions are linked to some or all of the limits and an annual aggregate stop loss for total claims within the similar instruments, and subsequently re-measured at fair value at Leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease following: the price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc excess limits.
A provision is recognised for the estimated cost to the each balance sheet date.
Freehold buildings Over 50 to 100 years market conditions : conditions not related to performance Company to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the Financial instruments are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. or service non-vesting condition : performance conditions balance sheet date, subject to the overall stop loss.
Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value, being Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years a vesting condition : and service conditions a vesting condition.
The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate the transaction price plus, in the case of financial instruments not The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over professional advice and is based on an assessment of the recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which expected settlement on known claims, together with an estimate transaction costs.
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring indication exists the assets are written down to their recoverable Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet been reported and effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other amount, being the higher of value in use or fair value less costs recognised, at each reporting date, reflects the extent to which to the Company.
comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised the period to vesting has expired and the directors best estimate of immediately in the income statement.
When the cashflow hedge Treasury shares the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an Investments results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then instrument subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated Re-acquired shares in the Company, which remain uncancelled, at the time that asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at as vesting as described above.
This includes any award where nonare deducted from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated cost less provision for impairment.
or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in vesting conditions within the control of the Group or the employee costs are also recognised in shareholders funds as a separate other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement are not met.
Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, Pension benefits of that non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result issue or cancellation of the Companys shares is transferred The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in from the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves.
determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or equity are recognised in the income statement in the period in entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current non-vesting condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial provided that all other performance and or service conditions are the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated advice.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the costs.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount is measured income statement as they arise.
net defined benefit liability or asset.
as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortisation recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is of liabilities and any gains and losses arising on the repurchase, Remeasurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or settlement or other derecognition of debt are recognised directly of the asset ceiling excluding net interest and the return on plan Taxation otherwise no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in the income statement.
assets excluding net interest are recognised in the statement of Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where recognised in other comprehensive income is kept in equity until the substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply The current service cost is recognised in the income statement forecast transaction occurs, at which point it is taken to the income when the related asset is realised or the liability is settled, based have passed to the Company, are capitalised in the balance sheet, statement or included in the initial carrying amount of the related within operating costs.
The net interest expense or income is with a corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged transaction is no enacted at the balance sheet date.
over the shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.
longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the in other comprehensive income is transferred to the Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary The capital elements of future obligations under leases are included earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the income statement.
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets as liabilities in the balance sheet.
date that the Group recognises  costs.
When a and liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued Software The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the the financial statements.
It is provided for on all temporary or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a income statement over the periods of the leases and represents a Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised differences, except: material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
as an intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with any impairment in value.
Amortisation is charged to the income Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the statement evenly over its expected useful life of three to five years.
resultant gain or loss is recognised in the income statement of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
of lease incentives and initial direct costs in securing leases, are The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation the lease term.
probable that the temporary differences will be reversed in the using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available to allow all the fair value of plan assets out of which obligations are to be settled Provisions for liabilities or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The carrying directly for The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan.
Fair value is based amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet A provision is recognised when the Company has a legal or on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is constructive obligation as a result of a past event: it is probable date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the published bid price.
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the that an outflow of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation: and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
For the defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to obligation.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the income statement in respect of pension costs and other Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement provisions are discounted.
Where the Company expects some or all post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as Differences between contributions payable in the year and in correlation with the underlying transaction.
Otherwise, tax is a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or recognised in the income statement.
prepayments in the balance sheet.
186 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 187 168 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
