STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Intangible assets continued 14. Business combinations This note details acquisition transactions carried out in the current and prior periods.
For accounting policies see Business combinations Goodwill and goodwill and Customer contracts in note 2.
Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: Year ended 30 June 2018 2018 2017 During the year the following acquisitions were made: m m Go South Coast 34.6 34.2 On 7 December 2017, The City of Oxford Motor Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired 100% of Tom Tappin Limited.
The company operates the Guide Friday and City Sightseeing Oxford city bus tours.
Brighton & Hove 12.7 12.7 On 16 June 2018, Go North East Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired 100% of The East Yorkshire Motor Services Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0 Group Limited EYMS.
The EYMS group operates buses and coaches throughout Hull, East Riding and the North Yorkshire coast.
Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5 Go North East 2.7 2.7 Aggregate net assets at date of acquisition: Oxford 0.6 Total acquisitions Provisional fair value to Konectbus 3.6 Group m Thames Travel 2.7 Property, plant and equipment 20.7 Carousel 2.1 Intangible assets 1.3 74.1 81.5 Inventories 0.3 The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation for each cash-generating unit, using Cash and cash equivalents 2.0 cashflow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period which have Deferred tax liabilities 1.0 then been extended over an appropriate period.
The directors feel that the extended period is justified because of the long term stability of Trade and other receivables 2.9 the relevant income streams.
Growth has been extrapolated forward from the end of the three year forecasts over a total period of ten years Trade and other payables 5.3 plus a terminal value using a growth rate of 2.0% which reflects the directors view of long term growth rates in each business, and the long term recurrent nature of the businesses.
Current taxation liabilities 0.1 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 7.3 The Groups weighted average cost of capital has been initially calculated as 5.2% 2017: 4.6%.
Given the current low weighted average Retirement benefit obligations 3.0 cost of capital the calculation of value in use has been initially derived based on the internal rate of return that the Group uses to appraise investments, currently 8.0%, to identify any goodwill balances requiring further consideration and review.
The economic conditions that Provisions 1.2 the cash-generating units operate in are considered similar enough, primarily being UK based, to use the same discount rate.
Net assets 9.3 Negative goodwill arising on acquisition 0.7 The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the forecast operating cashflows, the discount rate and the growth rate used to extrapolate cashflows beyond the budget period.
The operating cashflows are based on assumptions of revenue, Goodwill arising on acquisition 0.6 employee costs and general overheads.
These assumptions are influenced by several internal and external factors.
The directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic Cash 9.2 and industry measures and forecasts.
Total consideration 9.2 Following this impairment review, the goodwill of Konectbus a division of the East Anglian business, Thames Travel and Carousel Acquisition costs of 0.2m have been expensed through operating costs.
both separate divisions of the Oxford bus business have been fully impaired reflecting their continued underperformance and this being reflected in budgets and forecasts going forward.
Goodwill totalling 8.4m has been impaired in respect of the three businesses.
In respect Negative goodwill of 0.7m 2017: nil has been included as an exceptional item.
of the East Anglian tangible assets of 1.7m have also been impaired but in the case of Thames Travel and Carousel the tangible assets From the dates of acquisition in the period, the acquisitions recorded an operating profit of less than 0.1m and revenue of 0.7m.
Had the represent buses which can be utilised or sold without further impairment being applicable.
acquisitions been completed on the first day of the financial period, the impact on the Groups operating profit would have been an increase A 0.5% increase in the internal rate of return or revenue growth falling by 1.0% are considered the most likely sensitivities that could of 0.6m and the impact on revenue would have been an increase of 31.5m.
Following the impairments noted above the remaining cash-generating units have significant headroom Year ended 1 July 2017 when the impairment testing has been completed and accordingly these sensitivities would not cause the carrying value to exceed their recoverable amount.
As disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report, Go South Coast Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired the Excelsior group of companies on 4 October 2016 and Thamesdown Transport Limited on 3 February 2017.
The total consideration paid was 11.7m and no significant changes to the fair values previously reported were subsequently identified.
Given the size and prior year disclosures further detail is not replicated in this Annual Report.
154 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 155 136 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
