STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Dividend payments Financial calendar The dividend dates are available on our corporate website in the financial calendar.
Following each dividend payment date, we will send a dividend confirmation voucher to your home address.
Annual General Meeting 1 November 2018 Please therefore ensure that Equiniti has your correct address and Final dividend record date 9 November 2018 bank details.
Final dividend payment date 23 November 2018 We recommend that you arrange for your dividends to be paid Trading update 29 November 2018 directly into your bank account: Half year end 29 December 2018 Half year results announcement 21 February 2019 To avoid the risk of losing a cheque in the post and thereby incurring a replacement fee Half year dividend payment April 2019 For faster receipt of your dividend which is paid into your Trading update 23 May 2019 account on the payment date, rather than waiting for a cheque Next financial year end 29 June 2019 to be delivered, deposited and cleared Full year results announcement 5 September 2019 To select this method of dividend payment, please contact Equiniti directly using the details on page 202.
Annual general meeting AGM st The 31 AGM of the Group will be held at the Hilton Newcastle Managing your shares Gateshead, Bottle Bank, Gateshead, NE8 2AR on Thursday 1November 2018 at 11.00am.
Details of the business to be The Groups Registrar, Equiniti, is responsible for maintaining our considered can be found in the Notice of AGM which will be register of members.
Shareholders with queries relating to their available on the Groups corporate website www.
com shareholding should contact Equiniti directly.
Shareholders can sign up for a Shareview portfolio which enables members to: Shareholder profile by size of holding View information regarding shareholdings as at 30 June 2018 Change address and bank details online % Issued No.
of Total shares share Sell or purchase shares in the Group online holdings % held capital 1-10,000 2,930 92.37 1,986,577 4.22 To register, go to www.
You will need your 11 digit shareholder reference which is shown on your last dividend confirmation 100,001-500,000 50 1.58 11,129,284 23.67 voucher or share certificate.
receive duplicate documentation and split dividend payments.
To request that your accounts be combined, please contact Equiniti.
Shareholder profile by category as at 30 June 2018 Electronic communications No.
of Number of holdings shares % of holdings % of shares As far as possible, the Group provides shareholder documents via Treasury shares 1 3,902,230 0.03 8.30 thecorporate website.
If you wish to receive future shareholder Directors 6 92,846 0.19 0.19 communications electronically, please sign up via Shareview see Managing your shares section above.
By electing to receive Other individuals 2,560 3,926,067 80.71 8.35 shareholder communications electronically you will be allowing us Institutional to communicate with you securely in a more environmentally investors 605 39,106,487 19.07 83.16 friendlyand cost effective way.
Total 3,172 47,027,630 100 100 It should be noted that many private investors hold their shares through nominee companies.
Therefore, the percentage of shares held by private holders is likely to be higher than that shown.
com 199 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more Warning to shareholders Major shareholders members to vote against.
On a poll, every member present in Shareholders are advised to be extremely cautious of any In accordance with Rule 5.1.
2R of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Group had received the following person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every unsolicited and suspicious phone calls received from purported notification of an interest of 3% or morein the Groups total voting rights and capital in issue as at 30 June 2018 and 5 September 2018 ordinary share held.
The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for brokers who offer to buy their shares at a price far in excess being the latest practical date prior to the date of thisreport : exercising voting rights either in person or by proxy in relation to of their market value, or offer shares for sale, which often turn Number of Number of resolutions to be passed at the 2018 AGM.
All proxy votes are shares held as at % of voting shares held as at % of voting Nature outto be worthless or high risk, in US or UK investments.
counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to 30 June 2018 rights held Nature of holding 5 September 2018 rights held of holding Theseoperations are commonly known as boiler room fraud, each resolution are announced as soon as practicable following Janus Henderson Group plc 2,042,793 4.74 Indirect andthe callers can be very persistent and persuasive.
They often the AGM and published on the Groups corporate website Standard Life Aberdeen plc 4,575,235 10.61 Indirect 5,189,656 12.03 Indirect have websites to support their activities, their advice and the www.
More detailed information, These holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of investment management clients interests within the respective asset management companies.
guidance and key contact details are available on the FAQs The directors currently have no intention to allot shares other than No further notifications have been received: however, the above holdings may have changed without triggering a further notification.
pagewithin the investor information section of our corporate in connection with employee share schemes.
We also encourage shareholders to read the the Group to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal FinancialConduct Authoritys FCA guidance on how to amount of 1,436,911, and for the disapplication of pre-emption Corporate website avoidscams at www.
rights on the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an Our corporate website at www.
com provides information onthe Group and its activities.
We are committed to keeping our aggregate nominal amount of 215,537, as passed by ordinary and By law, the Groups register of members is open to public stakeholders up to date on business news and see the website as a key tool in allowing us to do this.
Stakeholders are encouraged special resolutions at the 2017 annual general meeting, were not inspection.
However, we do not endorse any specific share dealing to sign up to receive email notification of results and press announcements as they are released by registering at utilised inthe financial year or up to the date of this report.
facilities: will not pass on shareholder information to any third www.
party: and any requests for access to the register are subject to These authorities will expire at the 2018 AGM and approval for new In the interests of improving accessibility and sharing more relevant information with our stakeholders particularly smaller proper purpose requirements which ensure those personal data authorities will be sought.
In the last three years, no shares have shareholders, a number of new features have been added to the website during the year: are not used unlawfully.
been issued on a non-preemptive basis, other than those issued under all-employee share schemes which are not included for the Shareholder and control structure purposes of this authority.
What information is available on the website?
As at 30 June 2018, the Groups issued share capital comprised a The authority for the Group to make market purchases of its single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares, with a own ordinary shares, as passed by special resolution at the Corporate information Blogs in the Media section provide updates on Go-Aheads latest nominal value of 10p each.
As at this date, there were 47,027,630 2017 annual general meeting, was still in effect at the end of the research and executive discussions on industry matters An overview of who we are, what we do and the markets ordinary shares in issue, of which 3,902,230 were held in treasury.
financial year and will expire at the2018 AGM when approval for inwhichwe operate Factsheet in the Investors section providing a quick go-to guide a new authority will be sought.
The Group did not purchase any of its own shares during the year for stakeholders A detailed account of our approach to corporate governance either for cancellation or to hold as treasury shares, and no such Under the existing authority the maximum aggregate number of atGo-Ahead Local news section with Our Companies, which is dedicated to shares were purchased between the period end and the date of shares that can be purchased is 4,310,733.
The authority also sharing activities and stories from across the Group Profiles of our Board of directors and our corporate this report.
However, Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, limits the maximum number of shares held in treasury to 10% of governanceframework the Trustees of The Go-Ahead Group Employee Trust the Trust, In the coming year, the Group will continue to focus on the issued share capital of the Group and states minimum and A copy of our full Annual Report and Accounts purchased 64,012 ordinary shares of 10p each in the Group as part shareholder and stakeholder communication.
This will involve a maximum prices payable for shares purchased under the All the latest Go-Ahead news, press releases and of a planned programme of share purchases 2017:121,084 to complete review of the corporate website and its functionality.
During the financial year this authority was not utilised.
 satisfy awards made under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan Keyconsideration will be given to improving the content and Each of the Groups rail franchise agreements are subject to and Deferred Share Bonus Plan awards.
Since the period end and A map showing the areas in which we operate and the accessibility of information shared.
change of control criteria that would mean, on a change of control, the date of this report, the Trust has purchased 13,166 ordinary latestGroup news there would be deemed to be an event of default that could shares of 10p each in the Group.
potentially terminate the rail franchise.
This is, however, subject to Investor relations information The Group is not aware of any agreements between shareholders the discretion of the Secretary of State.
Additionally, the that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on A five year history of Group and divisional key financials Groupssterling bond issue dated 6 July 2017, and the revolving voting rights otherthan: creditand loanfacilities dated 16 July 2014,27 April 2017, A record of all trading updates, half year and full year 23October 2017and 20 July 2018are subject to change of control announcements Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed clauses that contain certain specified conditions which could lead Share price information, including download function bylaws and regulations for example, insider trading laws to a compulsory prepayment of the bond and loans respectively.
Our dividend policy, dividend history and dividend calculator Restrictions pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA whereby Transport for London, The Land Transport Authority in Singapore certain employees of the Group require the approval of the Our bus fuel hedging policy and profile of the Groups and the National Transport Authority in Ireland all havepowers to Group todeal in the Groups securities hedgingprices prevent the operation of, respectively, London Bus, Go-Ahead Our financial calendar All shareholders have the same voting rights for each share, Loyang PTE.
Limited and Go-Ahead Transport Services Dublin regardless of the total number of shares held.
On a show of hands Limitedcontracts by an existing operator which is the subject of a ata general meeting of the Group, every holder of shares present change of control.
in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote except in the circumstance where a proxy has been appointed by more than one member, in which case he or she will have one vote for and one vote against if he or she has been instructed by one or 200 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
