Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information GLOSSARY OF TERMS Property EPRA NNNAV CHARM EPRA NAV adjusted for deferred tax and those contingent tax The CHARM portfolio is a financial interest in equity mortgages liabilities which would accrue if assets were sold at market value held by the Church of England Pensions Board as mortgagee.
and for the fair value of long-term debt and derivatives.
Investment value or market value EU IFRS Open market value of a property subject to relevant tenancy in place.
International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, mandatory for UK-listed companies for accounting periods ending Private rented sector PRS on or after 31 December 2005.
Housing tenure classification that relates to residential units owned by the private sector to provide rental accommodation.
Gearing This excludes units owned by government authorities and The ratio of borrowings, net of cash, to market net asset value.
Goodwill Regulated tenancy On acquisition of a company, the difference between the fair value Tenancy regulated under the 1977 Rent Act.
Rent usually sub-market of net assets acquired and the fair value of the purchase price paid.
is set by the rent officer and the tenant has security of tenure.
Hedging Tenanted residential The use of financial instruments to protect against interest rate Activity covering the acquisition, renting out and subsequent sale movements.
usually on vacancy of residential units subject to a tenancy Interest cover agreement.
Profit on ordinary activities before interest and tax divided by net Vacant possession VP value interest payable.
Open market value of a property free from any tenancy.
Loan to value LTV Financial Ratio of net debt to the market value of properties and property Adjusted earnings related assets.
Profit before tax before valuation movements and other adjustments Operating profit before valuation movements OPBVM that are considered to be one-off in nature, which do not form part Operating profit before valuation movements and of the normal ongoing revenue or costs of the business.
Cap Return on capital employed ROCE Financial instrument which, in return for a fee, guarantees an upper Operating profit after net valuation movements on investment limit for the interest rate on a loan.
properties plus the share of results from joint ventures associates Contingent tax plus the movement on the uplift of trading stock to market value The amount of tax that would be payable should trading property as a percentage of opening gross capital defined as investment be sold at the market value shown in the market value balance sheet.
property, financial interest in property assets CHARM, investment in joint venture associates and trading stock at market value.
Dividend cover Earnings per share divided by dividends per share.
Return on shareholder equity ROSE Growth in NNNAV in the year plus the dividend per share relating Earnings per share EPS to each year as a percentage of opening NNNAV.
Profit after tax attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue in the year.
Swap Financial instrument to protect against interest rate movements.
EPRA NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the market value of property assets Total shareholder return TSR held as stock but before deduction for deferred tax on property Return attributable to shareholders on the basis of share price revaluations and before adjustments for the fair value of derivatives.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC The weighted average cost of funding the Groups activities through a combination of shareholders funds and debt.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 155
