178 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Notes forming part of the Company financial statements i Accounting policies Accounting convention Great Portland Estates plc is a public company limited by shares incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom England & Wales.
The address of the registered office is given on page 189.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the re-measurement of certain financial instruments to fair value.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the goods and services.
There were no significant judgements made or critical estimates applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
Disclosure exemptions adopted The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 Financial Reporting Standard 100 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Accordingly, the financial statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework as issued by the Financial Reporting Council incorporating the Amendments to FRS 101 issued by the FRC in July 2015 and July 2016.
In preparing these financial statements Great Portland Estates plc has taken advantage of all disclosure exemptions conferred by FRS 101.
Therefore these financial statements do not include: certain comparative information as otherwise required by EU endorsed IFRS: certain disclosures regarding the Companys capital: a statement of cash flows: certain disclosures in respect of financial instruments: the effect of future accounting standards not yet adopted: and disclosure of related party transactions with wholly-owned members of the Group.
The above disclosure exemptions have been adopted because equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated Group accounts into which Great Portland Estates plc is consolidated.
Subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures The Company is holding and financing Company for the Great Portland Estates plc Group.
Shares in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are carried at amounts equal to their original cost less any provision for impairment.
Other Accounting policies for share-based payments, other investment, deferred tax and financial instruments are the same as those of the Group and are set out on pages 146 to 150.
The Company participates in a group defined benefit scheme which is the legal responsibility of the B&HS Management Limited as the sponsoring employer.
There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost.
In accordance with IAS 19 Revised 2011, the Company accounts for the contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
Details of the Groups pension plan can be found on pages 163 and 164.
The auditors remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 5 to the Group accounts.
ii Profit attributable to members of the parent undertaking As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The profit dealt within the financial statements of the Company was 202.1 million 2017: profit of 2.0 million.
The employees of the Company are the directors and the Company Secretary.
Full disclosure of the directors remuneration can be found onpages 108 to 134.
