190 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Glossary Building Research Establishment Environmental Like-for-like Lfl Assessment Methodology BREEAM The element of the portfolio that has been held for the Building Research Establishment method of assessing, whole of the period of account.
rating and certifying the sustainability of buildings.
Loan To Value LTV Core West End Total bank loans, private placement notes, convertible Areas of London with W1 and SW1 postcodes.
bonds at nominal value and debenture stock, net ofcash including our share of jointventures balances, expressed Cash EPS asapercentage of the market value ofthe property EPRA EPS adjusted for non-cash items: tenant incentives, portfolio including our share of joint ventures.
capitalised interest and charges for share-based payments.
Net assets per share or Net Asset Value NAV Development profit on cost Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of The value of the development at completion, less the value ordinary shares at the balance sheet date.
of the land at the point of development commencement Net gearing and costs to construct including finance charges, letting fees, void costs and marketing expenses.
Total Group borrowings including the convertible bonds at nominal value less short-term deposits and cash as Development profit on cost % apercentage of equity shareholders funds, calculated The development profit on cost divided by the land value inaccordance with our bank covenants.
at the point of development commencement together with Net initial yield the costs to construct.
Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage Earnings Per Share EPS of the investment property valuation having added notional Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number purchasers costs.
Non-PIDs EPRA metrics Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and NAV residual business.
and other operating metrics as setout by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA intheir BestPractice Portfolio Internal Rate of Return IRR and Policy Recommendations.
The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied tothe projected cash flows from the portfolio would result Estimated Rental Value ERV inanetpresent value of zero.
The market rental value of lettable space as estimated bytheGroups valuers at each balance sheet date.
Property Income Distributions PIDs Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property Fair value Investment property rental business.
The amount as estimated by the Groups valuers for which aproperty should exchange on the date of valuation REIT between awilling buyer and a willing seller in an armsUK Real Estate Investment Trust.
length transaction after proper marketing wherein the Rent roll parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
In line withmarket practice, values The annual contracted rental income.
arestated net of purchasers costs.
Reversionary potential IPD The percentage by which ERV exceeds rent roll on let space.
The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company that produces an independent benchmark ofproperty returns.
IPD central London An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London properties in their March annual valued universes.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 191 Total Accounting Return TAR Growth of EPRA NAV plus dividends paid.
Total Property Return TPR Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income derived fromholding these properties plus profit on sale ofdisposals expressed as a percentage return on the periods opening value.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Stock Exchange, plus dividends per share received for the period expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Triple net asset value NNNAV NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups financial liabilities, deferred tax and tax arising on sale of trading properties on a diluted basis.
True equivalent yield The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows from an investment property, including current rent, reversions tocurrent market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, equates to the market value having taken into account notional purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Ungeared IRR The ungeared internal rate of return IRR is the interest rate at which the net present value of all the cash flows both positive and negative from a project or investment equal zero, without the benefit of financing.
The internal rate of return is used to evaluate the attractiveness of a project or investment.
Vacancy rate The element of a property which is unoccupied but available forletting, expressed as the ERV of the vacant space divided bytheERV of the total portfolio.
Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT The Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term expressed in years.
Whole life surplus The value of the development at completion, less the value of the land at the point of acquisition and costs to construct including finance charges, letting fees, void costs and marketing expenses plus any income earned over the period.
