146 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Great Portland Estates plc is a public company limited by shares incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom England & Wales.
The address of the registered office is given on page 189.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties and certain financial instruments which are held at fair value.
The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis asexplained in the Report of the Directors on page 136.
Significant judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to make certain judgements, assumptions and estimates.
Not all of the Groups accounting policies require the directors to make difficult, subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
Any estimates and judgements made are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Although these estimates are based on the directors best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
The following is intended to provide an understanding of the policies that management consider critical because of the level ofcomplexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the financial statements.
Significant judgements: recognition of sales and purchases of property The Group recognises sales and purchases of property when the risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the new owner usually on the date of completion.
Whilst in most instances this assessment is straightforward, arrangements such as forward sales, significant levels of deferred consideration or transactions with other complex arrangements require the directors to exercise judgement in recognising the transaction.
In the current year, no transactions required significant judgement.
Key source of estimation uncertainty: property portfolio valuation The valuation to assess the fair value of the Groups investment properties is prepared by its external valuer.
The valuation isbased upon a number of assumptions including future rental income, anticipated maintenance costs, future development costs and an appropriate discount rate.
The valuers also make reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
For the current year and prior year the directors adopted the valuation without adjustment, further information isprovided in the accounting policy for investment property and note 10.
New accounting standards During the year ended 31 March 2018, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the Group: Amendments to IFRS Annual improvements 20142016 cycle Amendments to IAS 7 Amendments to IAS 12 The adoption of the Standards and Interpretations has not significantly impacted these financial statements.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU and have not been applied in these financial statements: IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 16 Leases IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration Amendments to IAS 40 Investment property: relating to transfers of investment property Annual improvements 20152017 cycle Amendments to IFRS 1 and IFRS 28 annual improvements 2014-2016 cycle Amendments to IFRS 2 Amendments to IAS 19 Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards
