188 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the 61st Annual General Meeting Special resolutions of Great Portland Estates plc will be held at Chandos House, 15.
That: 2 Queen Anne Street, London W1, on Thursday, 5 July 2018 at 11.30am, for the purposes set out below, with the Board available a in accor dance with Article 10 of the Companys Articles of from 11am to meet shareholders and answer questions.
Association the Articles, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: As ordinary business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions 1 to 13 inclusive as ordinary resolutions.
b the power under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue, as defined in Article 10 of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment of equity Ordinary resolutions securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in 1.
T o receive and adopt the audited financial statements aggregate 2,149,538: together with the directors and auditors reports for the yearended 31 March 2018. c this authority shall expir e at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing 2.
T o authorise the payment of a final dividend for the year of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on ended 31 March 2018.
T o approve the Directors remuneration report as set out on 16.
That: pages 108 to 134, other than the part containing the Directors remuneration policy that appears on pages 124 to134, for the a in addition to any authority granted under r esolution 15, year ended 31 March 2018. the directors be given power: 4.
To re-elect Toby Courtauld as a director of the Company.
i subject to the passing of r esolution 14, to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies 5.
To re-elect Nick Sanderson as a director of the Company.
Act 2006 the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on them by that resolution under section 6.
To re-elect Martin Scicluna as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Charles Philipps as a director of the Company.
ii to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 3 8.
To re-elect Wendy Becker as a director of the Company.
ofthe Act sale of treasury shares for cash, 9.
To re-elect Nick Hampton as a director of the Company.
in either case as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to the allotment or sale, but this power shall be: 10.
To re-elect Richard Mully as a director of the Company.
A limited to the allotment of equity securities up to 11.
To elect Alison Rose as a director of the Company.
amaximum nominal amount of 2,149,538: and 12.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor.
B used only for the purposes of financing or 13.
T o authorise the Audit Committee to agree the remuneration refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six of the auditor.
months after the original transaction a transaction which the Board of the Company determines to As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the be an acquisition or other capital investment of a following resolution 14 as an ordinary resolution, and resolutions kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles 15 to 18 inclusive as special resolutions.
The items of special on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently business are explained in more detail in the Report of the directors published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the on pages 137 to 139. date of this notice, and including development 14.
That: and or refurbishment expenditure: a the dir ectors be authorised to allot shares in the Company b this power shall expir e at the conclusion of the next Annual or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, General Meeting of the Company after the passing of shares in the Company: this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 October 2019: and i in accor dance with Article 9 of the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, up to a maximum nominal c the Company may, before this power expires, make an amount of 14,330,256 such amount to be reduced offer or enter into an agreement, which would or might by the nominal amount of any equity securities as require equity securities to be allotted after it expires and defined in Article 10 of the Articles allotted under the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of paragraph ii below in excess of 14,330,256 : and such offer or agreement as if this power had not expired.
ii comprising equity securities as defined in Article 10 17.
That, in accor dance with section 701 of the Companies of the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of Act 2006, the Company be and it is hereby generally and 28,660,512 such amount to be reduced by any shares unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within allotted or rights granted under paragraph i above the meaning of section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue as its ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the defined in Article 10 of the Articles : directors may determine, provided that: b this authority shall expir e at the conclusion of the next a the maximum number of or dinary shares which may be Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing purchased is 42,221,384: of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close of business on b the maximum price at which or dinary shares may be 1 October 2019: and purchased shall not be more than the higher of an c all pr evious unutilised authorities under section 551 of the amount equal to 5% above the average of the middle Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect save to the market quotations for the ordinary shares as taken from extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 551 7 of the Companies Act 2006 by reason of any offer or five business days preceding the date of purchase and agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest granted on or after that date.
current independent bid for an ordinary share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out, and the 5 minimum price shall be 15 19 pence, being the nominal value of the ordinary shares, in each case exclusive of expenses: Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 189 c the authority conferr ed by this resolution shall expire at 18.
That, in accor dance with the Companys Articles of Association, the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may the Company after the passing of this resolution or at the be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
close of business on 1 October 2019, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract or contracts for purchase under which Registered office: such purchase may be completed or executed wholly or 33 Cavendish Square partly after the expiration of this authority and may make London W1G 0PW a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such By order of the Board contract: and Registered Number: 596137 d all existing authorities for the Company to make market Desna Martin purchases of its ordinary shares are revoked, except Company Secretary in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under a 23 May 2018 contract or contracts concluded before the date of this resolution and which has or have not yet been executed.
Notes to notice of meeting 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrar at the address shown on the form of proxy: or online by following the instructions for the electronic appointment of a proxy at www.
com: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below, and in each case must be received by the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any UK non-working days.
T he return of a completed proxy form, online proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 8 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
A shareholder must inform the Companys Registrar in writing of any termination of the authority of a proxy.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in this paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
As at 22 May 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 281,663,675 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
No shares were held in treasury.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 22 May 2018 are 281,663,675.
Copies of all directors contracts and the Companys Articles of Association are available for inspection at 33 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PW during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
8. a CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual on the Euroclear website www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
b In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID: RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice of Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
c The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. d CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
T he Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at close of business on 3 July 2018 or in the event of any adjournment, at close of business on the date which is two days before the date of the adjourned meeting excluding any UK non-working days shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time and changes to the Register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006, and it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
A member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Y ou may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any other purposes other than those expressly stated.
Voting on all resolutions will be conducted by way of a poll rather than on a show of hands.
This will result in a more accurate reflection of the views of shareholders by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including all votes of shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting but who appoint a proxy for the meeting.
On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for every share held.
