192 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Shareholders information Shareholder enquiries Payment of dividends All enquiries relating to holdings of shares, bonds or If you would like your dividends interest paid directly into debentures in Great Portland Estates, including notification your bank or building society account, you should write to of change of address, queries regarding dividend interest Link Asset Services, including details of your nominated payments or the loss of a certificate, should be addressed account.
Although this will enable your dividend interest to tothe Companys registrars: be paid directly into your account, your tax voucher will still be sent to your registered address.
Link Asset Services The Registry Tax consequences of REIT status 34 Beckenham Road As a REIT, dividend payments must be split between Beckenham PIDsandnon-PIDs.
Information in respect of the tax Kent consequences for shareholders of receiving dividends BR3 4TU canbefound on the Companys website at Tel: 0871 664 0300 www.
co. uk investors  reits E-mail: shareholder.
co. uk Share dealing service Calls cost 12 pence per minute plus network extras: lines An online and telephone dealing service is available for are open 9.00am5.30pm Monday to Friday.
UK shareholders through Link Share Deal.
For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, If you are calling from overseas please dial 44 371 664 0300 please contact: Unsolicited telephone calls boiler room scams Online dealing www.
com Over the last year, some of our shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning Telephone dealing 0371 664 0445 investment matters from organisations or persons Calls are charged at the standard geographical rate and will claiming or implying that they have some connection with vary by provider: lines are open 8.00am4.30pm Monday the Company.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target Website UKshareholders offering to sell them shares that often turn The Company has a corporate website, which holds, out tobeworthless or non-existent, or an inflated price for amongst otherinformation, a copy of our latest Annual shares they own.
These operations are commonly known as Report and Accounts, alist ofproperties held by the Group boiler rooms.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of and copies  released over the any offers ofunsolicited advice, discounted shares, premium last 12 months.
co. uk prices for sharesthey own orfreereports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Company Secretary Desna Martin, BCom FCA Aust ACIS ensure you get the correct name of the person andfirm: Registered office check that the firm is on the Financial Conduct 33 Cavendish Square Authority FCA Register to ensure they are authorised at London W1G 0PW https: register.
uk Tel: 020 7647 3000 use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm: Registered number: 596137 call theFCA Consumer Helpline 0800 111 6768 if there are nocontact details in the Register or you are told they are out ofdate:and if the calls persist, hang up.
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares, you will nothave access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
