FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the company accounts For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 32 Accounting policies Basis of accounting and presentation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The financial statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101: the requirements of IAS 7: Statement of Cash Flows: the requirements of IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: to disclose IFRSs issued but not effective: the requirements of IFRS 2: Share based payments: the requirements of IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures: the requirements of IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurements: the requirements of IAS 24: Related Party Disclosures, to present key management personnel compensation and intragroup transactions including wholly owned subsidiaries: and the requirements of IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements, to present certain comparative information and capital management disclosures.
The basis for all of the above exemptions is because equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of the group in which the entity is consolidated.
Greene King plc is a public company limited by shares incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The companys shares are listed on the LondonStock Exchange.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost less impairment and held as fixed assets on the balance sheet.
The carrying value of investments is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
On transition to FRS 101, theprevious GAAP carrying amount at the date of transition was regarded as deemed cost.
Taxation Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised when the company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are derecognised when thecompany no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument, normally through sale or when all cash flows attributable to the instrument are passed to an independent third party.
Borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Own shares Own shares consist of treasury shares and shares held within an employee benefit trust.
The company has an employee benefit trust to satisfy the exercise of share options that have vested under the groups share option schemes.
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds from the original cost being taken to retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on transactions in own shares.
Share-based payments Where the company grants share-based awards over its own shares in exchange for employee services rendered to its subsidiaries including services provided by the companys directors, it recognises in its individual financial statements, and an increase to the cost of investment equivalent to the share-based payment expense recognised in the consolidated financial statements and a corresponding credit in equity.
The share-based payments relating to directors are recognised as an expense by the subsidiaries, consistent with their other remuneration.
Certain employees and directors receive equity-settled remuneration, whereby they render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
Thefair value of the shares and options granted is measured using a BlackScholes model, at the date at which they were granted.
No account is taken inthe fair value calculation of any vesting conditions service and performance, other than market conditions performance linked to the price of the shares of the company.
Any other conditions that are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
The fair value of shares and options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity spread over the period in which the vesting conditions are fulfilled ending on the relevant vesting date.
The cumulative amount recognised as an expense reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired, adjusted for the estimated number of shares and options that are ultimately expected to vest.
The periodic charge or credit is the movement in the cumulative position from beginning to end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest because non-market performance and or service conditions have not been met.
Where awards include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as vested irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the company accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 32 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting judgments and estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting policies that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The company bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors deemed reasonable under the circumstances, including any expectations of future events.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
No estimates and judgments were considered to be significant.
33 Profit for the period No income statement is presented for the company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit after tax for the period is 111.9m 2017: 70.2m.
34 Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration in respect of the company audit was 16,500 2017: 16,500.
The figures for auditors remuneration for the company required by regulation 5 1 b of the Companies Regulations 2008 are not presented here as the group accounts comply with this regulation on a consolidated basis.
35 Directors remuneration and employee costs Details of directors remuneration are contained in the directors remuneration report on pages 64 to 69.
The company has no employees other than directors and the directors are not remunerated through this company.
Details of share options issued by the company are given in note 8.
Interest on amounts owed to and from group undertakings accrues at a rate of LIBOR 1.0% and is receivable at interim and year end dates.
37 Creditors 2018 2017 m m Accruals 3.4 2.0 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1,918.7 2,453.8 1,922.1 2,455.8 Interest on amounts owed to and from group undertakings accrues at a rate of LIBOR 1.0% and is payable on demand.
126 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38 Borrowings 2018 2017 Within After Within After one year one year Total one year one year Total m m m m m m Unsecured bank loans floating rate: Facility A 88.8 88.8 168.3 168.3 Facility B 184.3 184.3 273.1 273.1 168.3 168.3 As explained in note 22 the company amended its existing 400m revolving credit facility Facility A during the year to incorporate an additional 350m three-year revolving facility Facility B, taking the total facilities to 750m.
Bank loans due after one year are repayable as follows: 2018 2017 m m Due between two and five years 273.1 168.3 Although any individual draw-downs are repayable within 12 months of the balance sheet date, immediate renewal is available under Facility A until October 2021 2017: October 2021 and under Facility B until November 2020 2017: n a.
39 Allotted and issued share capital 2018 2017 Allotted, called up and fully paid m m Ordinary shares of 12.5p each 310.0m shares 2017: 309.9m 38.7 38.7 Further information on share capital is given in note 25.
Details of options granted and outstanding are included in note 8.
40 Reserves Share premium account Share premium represents the excess of proceeds received over the nominal value of new shares issued.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents capital contributions received and amounts recognised on the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company Limited being the difference between the value of the consideration and the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration.
Other reserve The other reserve consists of 3.3m 2017: 3.3m capital redemption reserve arising from the purchase of own share capital and 90.6m 2017: 90.6m arising from transfer of revalued assets to other group companies and will only be realised when the related assets are disposed of by the group.
Own shares Own shares relates to shares held in treasury and by the employee benefit trust.
Movement in own shares is described in note 26.
41 Contingent liabilities The company has provided a guarantee to the Greene King Pension Scheme in respect of the payment obligations to the scheme of its subsidiary Greene King Services Limited.
In the event that these obligations are not met the company will become liable for amounts due to the pension scheme: such an event is not considered probable.
Details of the groups pension schemes are included in note 9.
42 Post balance sheet events Final dividend A final dividend of 24.4p per share 2017: 24.4p amounting to a dividend of 75.6m 2017: 75.6m was proposed by the directors at their meeting on27June 2018.
These financial statements do not reflect the dividend payable.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 127
