GREENCOAT U K W I N D Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2018 1. significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The consolidated annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS to the extent that they have been adopted by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies under IFRS.
The annual financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, as modied for the measurement of certain financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates and are rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
Accounting for subsidiaries The Directors have concluded that the Group has all the elements of control as prescribed by IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements in relation to all its subsidiaries and that the Company continues to satisfy the three essential criteria to be regarded as an investment entity as dened in IFRS 10, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The three essential criteria are such that the entity must: 1.
Obtain funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing these investors with professional investment management services: 2.
Commit to its investors that its business purpose is to invest its funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income or both: and 3.
Measure and evaluate the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
In satisfying the second essential criteria, the notion of an investment time frame is critical.
An investment entity should not hold its investments indefinitely but should have an exit strategy for their realisation.
Although the Company has invested in equity interests in wind farms that have an indefinite life, the underlying wind farm assets that it invests in have an expected life of 30 years.
The Company intends to hold these wind farms for the remainder of their useful life to preserve the capital value of the portfolio.
However, as the wind farms are expected to have no residual value after their 30 year life, the Directors consider that this demonstrates a clear exit strategy from these investments.
Subsidiaries are therefore measured at fair value through profit or loss, in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
The financial support provided by the Company to its unconsolidated subsidiaries is disclosed in note 10.
Notwithstanding this, IFRS 10 requires subsidiaries that provide services that relate to the investment entitys investment activities to be consolidated.
Accordingly, the annual financial statements include the consolidated financial statements of Greencoat UK Wind PLC and Greencoat UK Wind Holdco Limited a 100 per cent.
In respect of these entities, intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the costs cannot be recovered.
The financial statements of subsidiaries that are included in the consolidated financial statements are included from the date that control commences until the dates that control ceases.
In the parent company financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9, as permitted by IAS 27.
Accounting for associates and joint ventures The Group has taken the exemption permitted by IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements for entities similar to investment entities and measures its investments in associates and joint ventures at fair value.
The Directors consider an associate to be an entity over which the Group has significant inuence, through an ownership of between 20 per cent.
The Groups associates and joint ventures are disclosed in note 10.
51 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 1. significant accounting policies continued New and amended standards and interpretations applied There were no new standards or interpretations effective for the first time for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 that had a significant effect on the Group or Companys financial statements.
Furthermore, none of the amendments to standards that are effective from that date had a significant effect on the financial statements.
IFRS 9 was issued to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and became effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and has been first adopted in these financial statements.
The Group has chosen not to restate comparatives.
The Groups financial instruments predominantly comprise equity investments held at fair value.
The accounting treatment for these financial instruments is consistent under both IAS 39 and IFRS 9, therefore the introduction of IFRS 9 has had no impact on the reported results and financial position of the Group.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers was issued and became effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
As the Groups investments are held at fair value through profit or loss and the revenue contracts are held at SPV level, the introduction of IFRS 15 has had no impact on the reported results and financial position of the Group.
New and amended standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, IFRS 16 Leases was issued but will not become effective until accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
As the Groups investments are held at fair value through profit or loss and the leases are held at SPV level, the introduction of IFRS 16 is not expected to have a material impact on the reported results and financial position of the Group.
Other accounting standards and interpretations have been published and will be mandatory for the Companys accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 or later periods.
The impact of these standards is not expected to be material to the reported results and financial position of the Group.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, payables, accrued expenses and short term borrowings reected in the financial statements are reasonable estimates of fair value in view of the nature of these instruments or the relatively short period of time between the original instruments and their expected realisation.
The fair value of advances and other balances with related parties which are shortterm or repayable on demand is equivalent to their carrying amount.
Financial assets The classication of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the purpose for which the financial asset was acquired and its characteristics.
All financial assets are initially recognised at fair value.
All purchases of financial assets are recorded at the date on which the Group became party to the contractual requirements of the financial asset.
The Groups and Companys financial assets comprise of only investments held at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables 2017 These assets are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They principally comprise cash and trade and other receivables and they are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provisions for impairment.
Transaction costs are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as incurred.
The Group and the Company assess whether there is any objective evidence that financial assets are impaired at the end of each reporting period.
If any such evidence exists, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
52 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 1. significant accounting policies continued Financial assets continued Loans and receivables at amortised cost 2018 Impairment provisions for loans and receivables are recognised based on a forward looking expected credit loss model.
All financial assets assessed under this model are immaterial to the financial statements.
Investments held at fair value through profit or loss Investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Gains or losses resulting from the movement in fair value are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income at each valuation point.
As shareholder loan investments form part of a managed portfolio of assets whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, loan investments are designated at fair value in line with equity investments.
The Companys loan and equity investments in Holdco are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Gains or losses resulting from the movement in fair value are recognised in the Companys Statement of Comprehensive Income at each valuation point.
Financial assets are recognised derecognised at the date of the purchase disposal.
Investments are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of consideration given.
Fair value is dened as the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Fair value is calculated on an unlevered, discounted cashow basis in accordance with IFRS 13 and IFRS 9.
Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset in whole or in part is derecognised either: when the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership: or when it has neither transferred or retained substantially all the risks and rewards and when it no longer has control over the assets or a portion of the asset: or when the contractual right to receive cashow has expired.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classied according to the substance of the contractual agreements entered into and are recorded on the date on which the Group becomes party to the contractual requirements of the financial liability.
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition, all interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Loan balances as at the year end have not been discounted to reect amortised cost, as the amounts are not materially different from the outstanding balances.
The Groups other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost include trade and other payables and other short term monetary liabilities which are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
A financial liability in whole or in part is derecognised when the Group has extinguished its contractual obligations, it expires or is cancelled.
Any gain or loss on derecognition is taken to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract, which is a financial liability, the terms of the embedded derivative would meet the denition of a stand-alone derivative if they were contained in a separate contract and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value.
Embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Embedded derivatives which are closely related to the host contract are not separated from the host instrument.
53 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 1. significant accounting policies continued Finance expenses Borrowing costs are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period to which they relate on an accruals basis.
Share capital Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity if the holder has only a residual interest in the assets of the Company after the deduction of all liabilities.
The Companys ordinary shares are classied as equity instruments.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in share premium as a deduction from proceeds.
Incremental costs include those incurred in connection with the placing and admission which include fees payable under a placing agreement, legal costs and any other applicable expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term highly liquid deposits with original maturities of 3 months or less, that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Dividends Dividends payable are recognised as distributions in the financial statements when the Companys obligation to make payment has been established.
Income recognition Dividend income and interest income on shareholder loan investments are recognised when the Groups entitlement to receive payment is established.
Other income is accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
Gains or losses resulting from the movement in fair value of the Groups and Companys investments held at fair value through profit and loss are recognised in the Consolidated or Company Statement of Comprehensive Income at each valuation point.
Expenses Expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Share issue expenses of the Company directly attributable to the issue and listing of shares are charged to the share premium account.
The Company issues shares to the Investment Manager in exchange for receiving investment management services.
The fair value of the investment management services received in exchange for shares is recognised as an expense at the time at which the investment management fees are earned, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of the investment management services is calculated by reference to the denition of investment management fees in the Investment Management Agreement.
Taxation Under the current system of taxation in the UK, the Group is liable to taxation on its operations in the UK.
Payment received or receivable from the Group or Group owned SPVs for losses surrendered are recognised in the financial statements and form part of the tax credit.
In some situations, it might not be appropriate to recognise the tax credit until the Groups and Group owned SPVs tax affairs have been nalised and the losses elections have been made.
