GREENCOAT U K W I N D Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 1. significant accounting policies continued Taxation continued Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the date of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit or the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments, except where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off tax assets against tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identied as the Board of Directors, as a whole.
The key measure of performance used by the Board to assess the Groups performance and to allocate resources is the total return on the Groups net assets, as calculated under IFRS, and therefore no reconciliation is required between the measure of profit or loss used by the Board and that contained in the financial statements.
For management purposes, the Group is organised into one main operating segment, which invests in wind farm assets.
All of the Groups income is generated within the UK.
All of the Groups non-current assets are located in the UK.
Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the financial statements requires the application of estimates and assumptions which may affect the results reported in the financial statements.
Estimates, by their nature, are based on judgement and available information.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are those used to determine the fair value of the investments as disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements.
As disclosed in note 1, the Directors have concluded that the Company meets the denition of an investment entity as dened in IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
This conclusion involved a degree of judgement and assessment as to whether the Company met the criteria outlined in the accounting standards.
The key assumptions that have a significant impact on the carrying value of investments that are valued by reference to the discounted value of future cashows are the useful life of the assets, the discount factors, the level of wind resource, the rate of ination, the price at which the power and associated benets can be sold and the amount of electricity the assets are expected to produce.
