Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Useful lives are based on the Investment Managers estimates of the period over which the assets will generate revenue which are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness.
The assumption used for the useful life of the wind farms is 30 years.
The actual useful life may be a shorter or longer period depending on the actual operating conditions experienced by the asset.
The discount factors are subjective and therefore it is feasible that a reasonable alternative assumption may be used resulting in a different value.
The discount factors applied to the cashows are reviewed annually by the Investment Manager to ensure they are at the appropriate level.
The Investment Manager will take into consideration market transactions, where of similar nature, when considering changes to the discount factors used.
The revenues and expenditure of the investee companies are frequently partly or wholly subject to indexation and an assumption is made that ination will increase at a long term rate.
The price at which the output from the generating assets is sold is a factor of both wholesale electricity prices and the revenue received from the Government support regime.
Future power prices are estimated using external third party forecasts which take the form of specialist consultancy reports.
The future power price assumptions are reviewed as and when these forecasts are updated.
There is an inherent uncertainty in future wholesale electricity price projection.
Specically commissioned external reports are used to estimate the expected electrical output from the wind farm assets taking into account the expected average wind speed at each location and generation data from historical operation.
The actual electrical output may differ considerably from that estimated in such a report mainly due to the variability of actual wind to that modelled in any one period.
Assumptions around electrical output will be reviewed only if there is good reason to suggest there has been a material change in this expectation.
Investment management fees Under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, the Investment Manager is entitled to a combination of a Cash Fee and an Equity Element from the Company.
The Cash Fee is based upon the NAV as at the start of the quarter in question on the following basis: on that part of the then most recently announced NAV up to and including 500 million, an amount equal to 0.25 per cent.
of such part of the NAV: on that part of the then most recently announced NAV over 500 million and up to and including 1,000 million, an amount equal to 0.225 per cent.
of such part of the NAV: and on that part of the then most recently announced NAV over 1,000 million, an amount equal to 0.2 per cent.
The Equity Element is calculated quarterly in advance and has a value as set out below: on that part of the then most recently announced NAV up to and including 500 million, 0.05 per cent.
: and on that part of the then most recently announced NAV over 500 million up to and including 1,000 million, 0.025 per cent.
The ordinary shares issued to the Investment Manager under the equity element are subject to a 3 year lock up starting from the quarter in which they are due to be paid.
As at 31 December each year, the Cash Fee and Equity Element shall be subject to a true-up to the value that would have been deliverable had they been calculated quarterly in arrears.
