Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Cautionary Statement The Review Section of this report has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Companys strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
These should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.
The Review Section may include statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identied by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors and the Investment Manager concerning, amongst other things, the investment objectives and Investment Policy, nancing strategies, investment performance, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, and distribution policy of the Company and the markets in which it invests.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
The Companys actual investment performance, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, distribution policy and the development of its nancing strategies may differ materially from the impression created by the forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Subject to their legal and regulatory obligations, the Directors and the Investment Manager expressly disclaim any obligations to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein to reect any change in expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any statement is based.
In addition, the Review Section may include target gures for future financial periods.
Any such gures are targets only and are not forecasts.
This Annual Report has been prepared for the Company as a whole and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters which are significant in respect of Greencoat UK Wind PLC and its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
Printed and Typeset by Digital Creative Services London Limited www.
