GREENCOAT U K W I N D Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2018 1. significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The consolidated annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS to the extent that they have been adopted by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies under IFRS.
The annual financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, as modied for the measurement of certain financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates and are rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
Accounting for subsidiaries The Directors have concluded that the Group has all the elements of control as prescribed by IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements in relation to all its subsidiaries and that the Company continues to satisfy the three essential criteria to be regarded as an investment entity as dened in IFRS 10, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The three essential criteria are such that the entity must: 1.
Obtain funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing these investors with professional investment management services: 2.
Commit to its investors that its business purpose is to invest its funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income or both: and 3.
Measure and evaluate the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
In satisfying the second essential criteria, the notion of an investment time frame is critical.
An investment entity should not hold its investments indefinitely but should have an exit strategy for their realisation.
Although the Company has invested in equity interests in wind farms that have an indefinite life, the underlying wind farm assets that it invests in have an expected life of 30 years.
The Company intends to hold these wind farms for the remainder of their useful life to preserve the capital value of the portfolio.
However, as the wind farms are expected to have no residual value after their 30 year life, the Directors consider that this demonstrates a clear exit strategy from these investments.
Subsidiaries are therefore measured at fair value through profit or loss, in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
The financial support provided by the Company to its unconsolidated subsidiaries is disclosed in note 10.
Notwithstanding this, IFRS 10 requires subsidiaries that provide services that relate to the investment entitys investment activities to be consolidated.
Accordingly, the annual financial statements include the consolidated financial statements of Greencoat UK Wind PLC and Greencoat UK Wind Holdco Limited a 100 per cent.
In respect of these entities, intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the costs cannot be recovered.
The financial statements of subsidiaries that are included in the consolidated financial statements are included from the date that control commences until the dates that control ceases.
In the parent company financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9, as permitted by IAS 27.
Accounting for associates and joint ventures The Group has taken the exemption permitted by IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements for entities similar to investment entities and measures its investments in associates and joint ventures at fair value.
The Directors consider an associate to be an entity over which the Group has significant inuence, through an ownership of between 20 per cent.
The Groups associates and joint ventures are disclosed in note 10.
