FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 1 Accounting policies Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 27 June 2018.
Greene King plc is a public company limited by shares incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Statement of compliance The groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the financial statements of the group for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 prior year 52 weeks ended 30 April 2017.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
They are presented in millions of pounds sterling, with values rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except where otherwise indicated.
The prior year comparatives have been restated in respect of pensions see note 9 to gross up the asset and liabilities of the separate pension schemes and to correct the future financial commitments see note 29.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Greene King plc, its subsidiaries and its related parties, Greene King Finance plc and Spirit Issuer plc.
Greene King Finance plc and Spirit Issuer plc are structured entities set up to raise bond finance for the group.
As Greene King plc has full control over both entities they are fully consolidated.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year end as the parent company with adjustments made to their financial statements to bring their accounting policies in line with those used by the group.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Going concern The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the directors report on page 73 and in the viability statement included in the strategic report on page 32.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
Other than new disclosure requirements in relation to the changes in liabilities arising from financial liabilities, new standards and interpretations which came into force during the year did not have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
Those standards and interpretations include: Amendments to IAS 7: Statement of Cash Flows on the Disclosures in Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: Clarification of the Scope of Disclosure Requirement in IFRS 12 Significant accounting policies Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition to IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to 50 years, and short leasehold improvements are depreciated to their estimated residual values over the shorter of the remaining term of the lease or useful life ofthe asset.
There is no depreciable amount if residual value is the same as, or exceeds, book value.
Plant and equipment assets are depreciated over their estimated lives which range from three to 20 years.
Residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed for all categories of property, plant and equipment and adjusted, if appropriate, ateach financial year end.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use.
Profit or loss on derecognition is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, and is included in the income statement in the year of derecognition.
Intangible assets Operating lease intangibles The fair value attached to operating leasehold interests on acquisition are deemed to represent lease premiums, and are carried as intangible assets.
Theoperating lease intangible is amortised over the period of the lease.
Brand intangibles Brand intangible assets recognised on acquisition are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives 15 years.
88 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement ofnoncontrolling interests, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets, is determined on a  basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are taken to the income statement.
When the group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets acquired and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation inaccordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation ofembedded derivatives in host contracts of the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred to the vendor is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value ofthe contingent consideration which are deemed to be an asset or a liability are recognised in the income statement.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRS.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criteria, are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, any goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Impairment Property, plant and equipment Individual assets are grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are identifiable cash inflows independent of the cash inflows of other groups of assets.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is an indication of impairment.
If an indication exists, the group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount of each asset group.
An assets or cash-generating units recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value of assets.
If there is an indication that any previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased, a reversal of the loss may be made only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amounts since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount only up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Impairment losses and any subsequent reversals are recognised in the income statement.
Details of the impairment losses recognised in respect of property, plant and equipment are provided in note 14.
Goodwill Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and cannot be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Impairment is determined by the recoverable amount of an operating segment.
Where this is less than the carrying value of the operating segment animpairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
This loss cannot be reversed in future periods.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised when the group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are derecognised when the group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument, normally through sale or when all cash flows attributable to the instrument are passed to an independent third party.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or available-for-sale financial assets.
The group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and, where appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end.
The group makes trade loans to publicans who purchase the groups beer.
Trade loans are non-derivative and are not quoted in an active market and have therefore been designated as Loans and receivables, carried at amortised cost.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether any individual trade loan is impaired.
If there is evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, the amount of loss is measured as the difference between the loans carrying amount and the expected future receipts excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recorded at their original invoiced amount less an allowance for any doubtful amounts when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Raw materials are valued at average cost.
Finished goods and work in progress comprise materials, labour and attributable production overheads, where applicable, and are valued at average cost.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale Property, plant and equipment is classified as held for sale only if it is available for sale in its current condition, management is committed to the sale and a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification.
Property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal and is no longer depreciated or amortised.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance costs and income Finance costs are expensed to the income statement using the effective interest method.
Finance income is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The group uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its variable rate loans, notes and bonds.
Interest rate swaps are initially measured at fair value, if any, and carried on the balance sheet as an asset or liability.
Subsequent measurement is at fair value and the movement is recognised in the income statement unless hedge accounting is adopted.
For interest rate swaps where hedge accounting isnot applied the fair value movement is analysed between preexceptional finance costs and exceptional finance costs.
Pre-exceptional finance costs includes cash payments or receipts on the interest rate swaps so as to show the underlying fixed rate on the debt with theremaining fair value movement which is generally the movement in the carrying value of the swap in the period reflected as an exceptional item.
For derivatives acquired at a non-zero fair value e. g. on acquisition the amortisation of the initial fair value is recognised in pre-exceptional finance costs to offset the cash payments or receipts.
Hedge accounting To qualify for hedge accounting the hedge relationship must be designated and documented at inception.
Documentation must include the groups risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge and formal allocation to the item or transaction being hedged.
The group also documents how it will assess the effectiveness of the hedge and carries out assessments on a regular basis to determine whether it has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly effective.
Hedges can be classified as either fair value hedging exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability, or cash flow hedging the variability in cash flows attributable to an asset, liability or forecast transaction.
The group uses certain of its interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges.
Cash flow hedge accounting The effective portion of the gain or loss on an interest rate swap is recognised in Other comprehensive income OCI, whilst any ineffective portion isrecognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts recognised in OCI are transferred to the income statement in the same period that the financial income or expense is recognised, unless thehedged transaction results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or liability whereby the amounts are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, amounts previously recognised inOCI are held there until the previously hedged transaction affects the income statement.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, thecumulative gain or loss recognised in OCI is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Trade payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are discounted to present value, where the effect of the time value of money is material, using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market estimates of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
90 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued Off-market contract liabilities Off-market contract liabilities are recognised where contracts are at unfavourable terms relative to current market terms on acquisition.
For leases where the current rentals are below market terms, the related asset is considered to be recognised as an operating lease in intangible assets.
For other acquired pubs an off-market liability has been calculated as the difference between the present value of future contracted rentals and the present value of future market rate rentals.
The off-market contract liability is increased by the unwinding of the discount at acquisition using the effective rate applied in measuring the off-market contract liabilities at the date of acquisition and decreased by utilisation which is unwound against rental expense in the income statement so that the income statement charge reflects current market terms.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits Defined benefit pension schemes The group operates two defined benefit pension schemes which require contributions to be made into separately administered funds.
The cost ofproviding benefits under the schemes is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial method on an annual basis.
Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in full in the group statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
When a settlement or curtailment occurs the obligation and related scheme assets are remeasured and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement in the same period.
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability asset is determined by multiplying the net defined benefit liability asset by the discount rate both as determined at the start of the annual reporting period, taking account of any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the year as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
The defined benefit asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet comprises the present value of the schemes obligations less the fair value of scheme assets.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the schemes or reduction in future contributions to the schemes.
Defined contribution pension schemes Contributions to the groups defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement as they become payable.
Share-based payments Certain employees and directors receive equity-settled remuneration, whereby they render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
The fair value of the shares and options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes model, at the date at which they were granted.
No account is taken in the fair value calculation of any vesting conditions service and performance, other than market conditions performance linked to the price of the shares of the company.
Any other conditions that are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
The fair value of shares and options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity spread over the period in which the vesting conditions are fulfilled ending on the relevant vesting date.
The cumulative amount recognised as an expense reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired, adjusted for the estimated number of shares and options that are ultimately expected to vest.
The periodic charge or credit is the movement inthe cumulative position from beginning to end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest because non-market performance and or service conditions have not been met.
Where awards include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as vested irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Own shares Own shares consist of treasury shares and shares held within an employee benefit trust.
The group has an employee benefit trust to satisfy the exercise of share options that have vested under the groups share option schemes.
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds from the original cost being taken to retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on transactions in own shares.
Revenue Generally, revenue represents external sales excluding taxes of goods and services, net of discounts.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the group and is measured at the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes or duty relating to brewing and packaging of certain products.
Revenue principally consists of drink, food and accommodation sales, which are recognised at the point at which goods or services are provided, and rental income, which is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and machine income, where net takings are recognised as earned.
The accrued value for rebates payable is included within other payables.
Supplier rebates Supplier rebates are included within operating profit as they are earned.
The accrued value at the reporting date is included within other receivables.
Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments are recognised asan expense in the income statement on a straightline basis over the period of the lease.
Lease premiums paid on entering into or acquiring operating leases represent prepaid lease payments and are held on the balance sheet as current theportion relating to the next financial period or noncurrent prepayments.
These are amortised on a straightline basis over the lease term.
The fair values attached to operating leasehold interests on acquisitions are deemed to represent lease premiums, and are carried as intangible assets, and amortised over the period of the lease.
See Off-market contract liabilities for the accounting policy where the fair values of operating leases are a liability.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are recognised at acquisition at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Theasset is then depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
A corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability to achieve aconstant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in finance costs.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents capital contributions received and amounts recognised on the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company Limited being thedifference between the value of the consideration and the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration.
Taxes Income tax The income tax charge comprises both the income tax payable based on profits for the year and the deferred income tax.
It is calculated using taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Income tax relating to items recognised in OCI and equity are recognised in OCI and equity respectively.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided for using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences except where the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset orliability in a transaction that is not a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss or, in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and carry forward of unused tax losses only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax losses can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured, on an undiscounted basis, at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset income tax assets and income tax liabilities and they relate to the same taxable entity and same tax authority and when it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised in OCI and equity are recognised in OCI and equity respectively.
Uncertain tax positions Provision for uncertain tax positions is based on an assessment of the tax treatment of certain transactions.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained and tax provisions are made if it is probable that a liability will arise.
The group reviews its uncertain tax positions each year in order to determine the appropriate accounting treatment.
Exceptional and non-underlying items and adjusted profitability measures Management uses a range of measures to monitor and assess the groups financial performance.
These measures include a combination of statutory measures calculated in accordance with IFRS and alternative performance measures APMs.
These APMs include the following adjusted measures of profitability: operating profit before exceptional and non-underlying items: profit before tax, exceptional and non-underlying items PBTE : profit attributable to equity holders before exceptional and non-underlying items: and adjusted basic earnings per share.
Management believes that these measures provide useful additional information about the groups performance.
The above measures represent the equivalent IFRS measures but are adjusted to exclude items that management considers would prevent comparison of the performanceboth from one reporting period to another and with other similar businesses.
Exceptional and non-underlying items are not defined under IFRS.
Exceptional items are classified as those which are separately identifiable by virtue oftheir size, nature or expected frequency and therefore warrant separate presentation.
Nonunderlying items are other items that management considers should be presented separately to allow a better understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
Presentation of these measures is not intended to be a substitute for or intended to promote them above statutory measures.
The groups income statement provides a reconciliation of the adjusted profitability measures, excluding exceptional and non-underlying items to the equivalent unadjusted IFRS measures.
Exceptional and non-underlying items are then further detailed in note 5 to the financial statements.
92 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued Exceptional and non-underlying items and adjusted profitability measures continued Items that are considered to be exceptional or nonunderlying and that are therefore separately identified in order to aid comparability may include thefollowing.
Exceptional items: profits or losses resulting from the disposal of a business or investment: costs incurred in association with business combinations, such as legal and professional fees and stamp duty, that are excluded from the fair value oftheconsideration of the business combination: one-off restructuring and integration costs that are incurred either following a business combination or following a restructuring of the groups support functions.
These costs can be significant and would prevent year-on-year comparability of the groups trading if not separately identified: impairment charges reversals in respect of tangible and intangible assets as a result of restructuring, business closure, underperformance of sites orfire damage: finance costs or income resulting from gains or losses upon the settlement of interest rate swap and bond liabilities.
These amounts may be significant and are separately identified as the instruments they relate to would no longer form part of the groups ongoing capital structure: fair value gains and losses on the ineffective element of cash flow hedges and fair value movements in respect of derivatives held at fair value through profit and loss.
Such items are separately presented as movements may be both significant and volatile: and significant and or one-off tax settlements in respect of prior years including any related interest, and the tax impact of the items identified above andmovements on the licensed estate are included as exceptional items.
These items are separately identified to allow management and investors toseparately understand tax charges relating to inyear ongoing activity and what relates to prior years.
Non-underlying items may include: costs incurred in relation to group refinancing activities and defending uncertain tax positions: profit or loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment, where the group disposes of properties that it no longer considers meet the ongoing needs of the business.
These profits or losses could be significant and volatile and are not reflective of the groups ongoing trading results: costs associated with property lease reversions and onerous leases.
The group may incur costs and recognise liabilities in respect of leasehold properties where the terms of the lease make them onerous or leases that have previously been disposed of but revert to the group under privity of contract.
Such costs may occur infrequently or could be significant and are not reflective of the groups ongoing trade: significant credits to the income statement resulting from the reversal of share-based payment charges recognised in prior years performance following the reassessment of expected scheme: gains or losses resulting from the settlement of liabilities in respect of the groups pension schemes: finance costs or income includes the recycling to the income statement of cumulative gains or losses relating to settled swaps previously taken tothehedging reserve: the impact of changes in the statutory tax rates: the impact of changes to the tax base cost of groups licensed estate and indexation: and other adjustments in respect of prior years tax arising from finalising the tax returns for earlier years and rolled over gains on the licensed estate.
New standards and interpretations not applied As at the date of approval of the financial statements there are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an effective date after the date of these financial statements and which have not been early adopted by the group.
These are expected to be applied as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in July 2014 and replaces of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 covers the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, together with a new hedge accounting model and the new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment.
The new standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, and will be adopted by the group on 30 April 2018 using a modified retrospective assessment approach.
The group has assessed the impact and determined that the adoption of IFRS 9 will not have a material impact onits consolidated results and financial position.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers in May 2014, and amended it in April 2016.
The new standard provides a single, five-step revenue recognition model, applicable to all sales contracts, which is based upon the principle that revenue is recognised when the control ofgoods or services is transferred to the customer.
The new standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, and will be adopted by the group on 30 April 2018.
This standard replaces all existing revenue recognition guidance under current IFRS.
The group has completed an impact assessment and determined that the adoption of IFRS 15 will not have a material impact on its consolidated results and financial position, but will result in additional disclosure requirements.
IFRS 16 Leases The IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases in January 2016.
The new standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets andliabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
The new standard will be effective for years beginning on or after 1 January 2019, and the group plans to adopt IFRS 16 on 1 May 2019.
For lessors, there is little change to the existing accounting in IAS 17 Leases.
The application of IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the groups consolidated financial results and financial position.
This includes recognition of interest and amortisation expense in place of fixed rental expense in the income statement and the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for its operating lease portfolio on the balance sheet.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 1 Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied continued IFRS 16 Leases continued There is no net cash flow impact on application of IFRS 16, although the classification of cash flows will be affected as operating lease payments under IAS 17 are presented as operating cash flows, whereas under the IFRS 16 model, the lease payments will be split into a principal and an interest portion which will be presented as financing and operating cash flows respectively.
The group has a comprehensive project under way to assess the overall impact of adopting IFRS 16, including: determining the preferred transition approach and quantifying the financial impacts: addressing the future data collection requirements and updating processes accordingly: and integrating IFRS 16 into all its reporting with effect from 1 May 2019.
It is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect of the initial application of IFRS 16 until this assessment project has been completed.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments The IASB issued IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments in June 2017 to clarify application of recognition and measurement requirements inIAS 12 Income Taxes when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments, effective 1 January 2019.
The group has completed an impact assessment and determined that IFRIC 23 is not expected to have an impact on its consolidated results and financial position.
Other standards and interpretations that are relevant to the group have been assessed as having no significant financial impact or additional disclosure requirements at this time.
Amendments to IFRS 2: Clarifications of Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property Significant accounting judgments and estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting policies that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The group bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors deemed reasonable under the circumstances, including any expectations of future events.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and judgments considered to be significant are detailed below: Taxation Judgment is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Assumptions are also made around the assets which qualify for capital allowances and the level ofdisallowable expenses and this affects the income tax calculation.
Provisions are also made for uncertain exposures which can have an impact on bothdeferred and current tax.
The final resolution of these transactions may give rise to material adjustments to the income statement and or cash flow in future periods.
The group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit each period to assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
Refer to notes 5, 10 and 24 for further details.
Share-based payments Judgment is required when calculating the fair value of awards made under the groups share-based payment plans.
Note 8 describes the key assumptions and valuation model inputs used in the determination of these values.
In addition estimates are made of the number of awards that will ultimately vest and judgment is required in relation to the probability of meeting non-market based performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees in the plans.
Pension assets and liabilities The group has determined that when all members have left the scheme, any surplus remaining would be returned to the company in accordance with the trust deed.
As such the full economic benefit of the surplus under IAS 19 is deemed available to the company and is recognised in the balance sheet.
The present values of pension liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and depend on a number of actuarial assumptions which are disclosed innote 9.
Any change in these assumptions will impact on the carrying amount of pension liabilities.
Impairment of goodwill The group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis.
Details of the tests and carrying value of the assets are shown in note 13.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Value-in-use calculations require assumptions to be made regarding the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
If the actual cash flows are lower than estimated, future impairments may be necessary.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The group determines whether property, plant and equipment is impaired where there are indicators of impairment.
This requires an estimation of the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal at an individual pub level.
Note 14 describes the assumptions used in the impairment testing of property, plant and equipment together with an analysis of the sensitivity to changes inkey assumptions.
Residual values and useful lives Residual values of property are determined with reference to current market property trends.
If residual values were lower than estimated, an impairment of asset value and reassessment of future depreciation charge may be required.
In line with its accounting policy, the residual value of the groups freehold buildings was reviewed in the year and increased to reflect recent external valuations.
This increase had no material impact on the pre-tax groups consolidated results or financial position, or is anticipated to have a material impact in future periods.
The taxation impact is reported in note 5.
Useful lives are reassessed annually which may lead to an increase or reduction in depreciation accordingly.
Property provisions The group provides for its onerous obligations under operating leases where the property is closed or vacant and for properties where rental expense is in excess of income.
The estimated timings and amounts of cash flows are determined using the experience of internal and external property experts.
However, changes to the expected method of exiting from the obligation could lead to changes in the level of provision recorded.
94 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Segment information The group has three reportable segments that are largely organised and managed separately according to the nature of products and services provided, distribution channels and profile of customers: Pub Company: Managed pubs and restaurants Pub Partners: Tenanted and leased pubs Brewing & Brands: Brewing, marketing and selling beer These are also considered to be the groups operating segments and are based on the information presented to the chief executive, who is considered tobethe chief operating decision maker.
No aggregation of operating segments has been made.
Transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arms length basis.
EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional and non-underlying items and is calculated as operating profit before exceptional andnonunderlying items adjusted for the depreciation and amortisation charge for the year.
Unallocated assets liabilities comprise cash, borrowings, pensions, net deferred tax, net current tax, derivatives and indirect tax provisions.
The 2017 comparative hasbeenrestatedto reflect the grossing up of pension assets and liabilities for the separate defined benefit schemes.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 2 Segment information continued Management reporting and controlling systems Management monitors the operating results of its strategic business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about allocating resources andassessing performance.
Segment performance is measured based on segment operating profit or loss referred to as trading profit in the groups management and reporting systems.
Included within the corporate column in the table above are functions managed by a central division.
No information about geographical regions has been provided as the groups activities are predominantly domestic.
3 Revenue Revenue is analysed as follows: 2018 2017 m m Goods 2,032.4 2,069.1 Services 144.3 147.4 2,176.7 2,216.5 Revenue from services includes rent receivable from licensed properties of 53.6m 2017: 53.5m.
4 Operating costs Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2018 2017 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional and nonand nonand nonand nonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Cost of products sold recognised as an expense 743.0 743.0 769.7 769.7 Employment costs note 6 584.7 2.5 587.2 590.9 4.9 595.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 14 103.7 103.7 102.6 102.6 Amortisation note 13 9.8 9.8 10.0 10.0 Operating lease rentals: Minimum lease rentals payable 70.0 70.0 68.9 68.9 Other operating charges 292.4 73.3 365.7 262.9 63.5 326.4 Net profit on disposal note 5 19.7 19.7 3.4 3.4 1,803.6 56.1 1,859.7 1,805.0 65.0 1,870.0 Fees paid to the auditor during the year consisted of: 2018 2017 m m Audit of the consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.4 Audit of subsidiaries 0.1 0.2 Non-audit services 0.1 Included in other operating charges 0.6 0.6 96 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 Exceptional and non-underlying items 2018 2017 NonNonExceptional underlying Exceptional underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Included in operating profit Integration costs and other legal and professional fees 3.7 1.9 5.6 10.8 10.8 Net impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets notes 13 and 14 70.4 70.4 58.6 58.6 Employee costs 1.6 1.6 3.7 3.7 Share-based payment credit 3.1 3.1 Insurance proceeds 1.8 1.8 Net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and goodwill 19.7 19.7 3.4 3.4 Pension and post-employment liabilities settlement gain 1.6 1.6 74.1 18.0 56.1 69.4 4.4 65.0 Included in financing costs Gain on settlement of financial liabilities 3.0 3.0 12.2 12.2 Amounts recycled from hedging reserve in respect of settled interest rate liabilities 11.6 11.6 11.8 11.8 Fair value losses on ineffective element of cash flow hedges 0.4 0.4 Fair value movements of derivatives held at fair value through profit and loss 19.2 19.2 23.6 23.6 22.2 11.6 10.6 11.4 12.2 23.6 Total exceptional and non-underlying items before tax 51.9 6.4 45.5 80.8 7.8 88.6 Tax impact of exceptional items 0.2 0.2 5.0 5.0 Tax impact of non-underlying items 2.9 2.9 2.8 2.8 Tax credit in respect of the licensed estate 14.0 14.0 3.2 6.3 9.5 Tax credit in respect of rate change 4.3 4.3 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 10.1 7.0 3.1 2.7 2.2 0.5 Total exceptional and non-underlying tax 3.7 9.9 13.6 5.5 15.6 21.1 Total exceptional and non-underlying items after tax 48.2 16.3 31.9 75.3 7.8 67.5 Exceptional operating costs Integration costs are items of one-off expenditure, including legal and professional fees, the costs of dedicated integration project teams and redundancy costs incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of Spirit Pub Company, which was finalised in the year.
During the period to 29 April 2018 the group has recognised a net impairment loss of 70.4m 2017: 58.6m.
This is comprised of an impairment charge relating to properties of 76.1m 2017: 77.7m and reversal of previously recognised impairment losses of 12.8m 2017: 19.1m.
39.3m impairment has been recognised in respect of a small number of pubs and is driven by changes in the local competitive and trading environment at the respective sites, and 24.0m due to a decision taken to exit some sites during the financial year.
Impairment reversals have been recognised following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in amounts of estimated future cash flows for previously impaired sites or increases to fair value less costs of disposal.
In addition an impairment charge of 7.1m 2017: nil was recognised in relation to intangible assets during the year.
Non-underlying operating costs In the year the group incurred 1.9m non-underlying legal and professional fees in relation to group refinancing activities and defending uncertain tax positions.
The net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and goodwill of 19.7m 2017: 3.4m comprises a total profit on disposal of 68.4m 2017: 38.2m and a total loss on disposal of 48.7m 2017: 34.8m.
In the year the group received insurance compensation of 1.8m 2017: nil to meet the costs of restoring sites damaged by fire or flood in apreviousyear.
The group incurred 1.6m 2017: 3.7m of non-underlying employee costs, which included restructuring costs and costs associated with changes to key management.
A share-based payment credit of 3.1m was recognised in the prior year which resulted from the reversal of charges recognised in earlier years following a reassessment of expected scheme performance.
In the prior year the group recognised a 1.6m non-underlying credit in relation to pension settlement following the completion of a flexible retirement offer and pension increase exchange offer made to certain members of the Spirit pension scheme.
Exceptional and non-underlying finance costs During the year the group settled financial liabilities in relation to the Spirit secured financing vehicle, recognising a net gain of 3.0m.
The financial guarantee provided by Ambac in respect of a number of Spirit secured bonds was terminatedfor cash consideration of 12.6m with a further 2.2m ofconsent and other fees paid note 24.
The fair value of this offmarket contract liability was initially recognised as part of the acquisition fair values ofSpirit Pub Company.
An exceptional gain of 5.9m, being the difference between the carrying value of the liability and the total cash consideration and fees incurred in order to terminate it, has been recognised.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 5 Exceptional and non-underlying items continued Exceptional and non-underlying finance costs continued In addition the A1, A3, A6, and A7 Spirit secured bonds were fully repaid at their par valueof 216.9m.
The group has recognised exceptional losses onearly settlement of 4.1m, being the difference between the carrying value of the bonds and their par value on prepayment.
The group also terminated two interest rate swap contracts for cash consideration of 42.6m in connection with the repayment of these bonds, recognising an exceptional gain of1.2m amounting to the discount received on termination.
During the prior year a number of the groups swap liabilities were settled at a discount recognising a 12.2m exceptional gain.
The swaps concerned were hedging cash flows relating to the Greene King A5 bond and floating rate bank loans.
These cash flows are still expected tooccur and therefore in accordance with IAS 39 the cumulative losses taken to the hedging reserve will be recycled to the income statement over the same period during which the hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss.
A non-underlying charge of 11.6m 2017: 11.8m has been recognised in respect of this during theyear.
In a prior year the group acquired as part of a business combination derivatives that have subsequently been accounted for at fair value through profit and loss as they were deemed not to qualify for hedge accounting.
An exceptional gain of 19.2m 2017: charge of 23.6m relates to the mark-to-market movement on these derivatives, excluding amortisation of fair value on acquisition which reduces the pre-exceptional finance costs that include interest paid note 23.
Mark-to-market movements are considered to be exceptional owing to their volatility and are shown separately to ensure pre-exceptional finance costs are more readily comparable each year.
Fair value amortisation is deemed to be a pre-exceptional item as it adjusts swap interest to a market rate.
Exceptional tax The 14.0m deferred tax in respect of the licensed estate in the year arose due to managements revision of its estimate of the residual value of buildings from 80% to 85%.
The exceptional tax credit in respect of the licensed estate in the prior year relates to impairment.
On 16 October 2017 agreement was reached with HMRC regarding an internal property arrangement, the groups only material unresolved historical tax position.
Apart from the treatment of repairs, which is expected to be resolved by the end of the next financial year, this has been fully provided inthe accounts.
As a result the group has settled corporation tax of 9.4m and interest of 2.1m during the year.
On 6 June 2016 a formal agreement was reached with HMRC on a number of historical tax positions and on 22 July 2016 the Court of Appeal published its final decision on the Sussex case.
As a result the group settled income tax of 20.7m and interest of 12.2m during the prior year.
An income tax credit of 0.8m is included within adjustment in respect of prior years.
The adjustment in respect of prior years tax arises from finalising the tax returns for earlier periods and movements on the licensed estate.
Non-underlying tax The tax credit in respect of the licensed estate in the prior year arises from movements in their tax base cost and indexation.
The Finance Act 2016 reduced the rate of corporation tax from 19% to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The rate reduction was substantively enacted atthe balance sheet date and is therefore included in these accounts.
The net deferred tax asset has been calculated using the rates at which each temporary difference is expected to reverse.
6 Employment costs 2018 2017 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional and nonand nonand nonand nonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Wages and salaries 538.8 2.2 541.0 546.3 7.0 553.3 Other share-based payments note 8 1.8 1.8 2.3 3.1 0.8 Total wages and salaries 540.6 2.2 542.8 548.6 3.9 552.5 Social security costs 36.9 0.3 37.2 34.9 0.9 35.8 Other pension costs note 9 : Defined contribution 7.2 7.2 7.4 0.1 7.5 584.7 2.5 587.2 590.9 4.9 595.8 The total expense of share-based payments relates to equity-settled schemes.
The average number of employees during the period was as follows: 2018 2017 Pub Company 37,417 40,693 Pub Partners 62 64 Brewing & Brands 862 838 Corporate 827 884 39,168 42,479 The figures above include 24,751 2017: 25,473 part-time employees.
Details of directors emoluments are shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 64 to 69.
98 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 Finance costs income 2018 2017 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional and nonand nonand nonand nonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Bank loans and overdrafts 6.4 6.4 6.2 6.2 Other loans 110.5 110.5 117.1 117.1 Ineffective element of cash flow hedges 0.2 0.4 0.2 Derivatives held at fair value through profit and loss 19.2 19.2 23.6 23.6 Settlement of financial liabilities 3.0 3.0 12.2 12.2 Amounts recycled from hedging reserve in respect of settled interest rate liabilities 11.6 11.6 11.8 11.8 Interest in respect of uncertain tax positions 0.3 0.3 Interest on exceptional indirect tax provision 0.6 0.6 Unwinding of discount element of provisions and off-market contract liabilities 13.0 13.0 14.2 14.2 Net finance cost from pensions 0.3 0.3 1.7 1.7 Total finance costs 131.1 10.6 120.5 139.0 23.6 162.6 Bank interest receivable 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Total finance income 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Net finance costs 130.1 10.6 119.5 138.0 23.6 161.6 8 Share-based payment plans The group operates three types of share-based payment arrangements: a senior management long-term incentive plan LTIP growth LTIP, a deferred share scheme for other management and a general employee share option plan SAYE.
The general terms of the LTIP growth LTIP are detailed in the directors remuneration report on pages 64 to 69.
The total charge recognised for the year arising from share-based payment transactions including National Insurance contributions is 1.8m 2017:0.8mcredit.
A corresponding credit of 1.3m 2017: 0.4m debit has been recognised in equity.
The fair value of the LTIP growth LTIP issued since 2015 is considered to be equal to the share price on the date of issue.
For the awards granted in2018 the fair value was 558p and 573p 2017: 805p per share option.
Future dividend payments have not been factored into the valuation asparticipants are entitled to dividend payments.
The fair value of other equity-settled options are estimated using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of the grants and model inputs used to calculate the fair values of grants during the year were as follows: 2018 2017 SAYE SAYE Weighted average share price 524p 682p Exercise price 463p 574p Expected dividend yield 6.1% 4.4% Risk-free rate of return 0.8% 0.6% Expected volatility 25.0% 22.5% Expected life years 3.3 3.3 Weighted average fair value of grants in the year 68p 107p Risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds with the same life as the expected option life.
Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the companys share price which assumes that the past trend in share price movement is indicative of future trends.
Expected life of options has been taken as the mid-point of the relevant exercise period.
This is not necessarily indicative of future exercise patterns.
No other feature of the equity instruments granted was incorporated into the fair value measurement.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 8 Share-based payment plans continued Movements in outstanding options and rights during the year are as follows: SAYE Weighted average Number of options exercise price 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m p p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2.8 2.3 610 645 Granted 1.7 1.3 463 574 Forfeited 1.4 0.7 608 682 Exercised 0.1 0.1 583 503 Outstanding at the end of the year 3.0 2.8 529 610 Exercisable at the end of the year 0.5 0.2 588 620 LTIP Number of shares 2018 2017 m m Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2.3 2.2 Granted 1.2 1.0 Forfeited 1.2 0.3 Vested 0.6 Outstanding at the end of the year 2.3 2.3 Exercisable at the end of the year The options and shares granted under the LTIP are at nil cost: therefore, the weighted average exercise price for rights outstanding at the beginning andend of the year, and granted, forfeited and exercised during the year is nil 2017: nil.
SAYE and LTIP Options were exercised on a range of dates.
The weighted average share price through the period was 580p in 2018 and 748p in 2017.
The rights outstanding at 29 April 2018 under the LTIP had an exercise price of nil 2017: nil and a weighted average remaining contractual life of1.6years 2017: 1.4 years.
The outstanding options for the SAYE scheme had an exercise price of between 463p and 726p 2017: 387p and 726p and the weighted average remaining contractual life was 3.3 years 2017: 3.2 years.
9 Pensions Defined contribution pension schemes The group maintains three defined contribution schemes, which are open to all new employees.
Member funds for the defined contribution schemes are held and administered by the Friends Life Group.
The total cost recognised in operating profit for the year was 7.2m 2017: 7.5m.
Defined benefit pension schemes and post-employment benefits The group maintains two defined benefit schemes: the Greene King Pension Scheme and the Spirit Legacy Pension Scheme which are closed to new entrants and are closed to future accrual.
Only administrative costs and deficit recovery contributions are incurred going forward.
Both schemes were last valued as at April 2015 and are undergoing a full actuarial valuation as at 29 April 2018.
Member funds for the defined benefit schemes are held in separate funds independently of the groups finances and are administered by pension trustees.
Pension benefits are related to members final salary at the earlier of retirement or closure to future accrual and their length of service.
Since the pension liability is adjusted for the changes to consumer price index, the pension plan is exposed to inflation, interest rate risks and changes in the life expectancy for pensioners.
As the plan assets include significant investments in quoted equity shares of entities in the manufacturing and consumer products sectors, the group is also exposed to equity market risk arising in the manufacturing and consumer products sector.
The majority of the bonds relate to UK government and corporate bonds.
The 2017 balance sheet comparative has been restated to reflect the grossing up of pension assets and liabilities for the separate defined benefit schemes.
100 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 Pensions continued Defined benefit pension schemes and post-employment benefits continued Net interest on net defined liability: Pension schemes 2018 2017 Greene King Spirit Total Greene King Spirit Total m m m m m m Interest on pension scheme assets 9.6 14.3 23.9 10.4 15.9 26.3 Interest on scheme liabilities 10.3 13.9 24.2 12.0 16.0 28.0 Net interest on net defined liability 0.7 0.4 0.3 1.6 0.1 1.7 The values of the schemes liabilities have been determined by a qualified actuary based on the results of the last actuarial valuation, updated to 29 April 2018 using the following principal actuarial assumptions: 2018 2017 Greene King Spirit Greene King Spirit Discount rate 2.8% 2.8% 2.7% 2.8% Expected pension payment increases 3.0% 3.0% 3.1% 3.1% Rate of inflation RPI 3.1% 3.1% 3.3% 3.3% Rate of inflation CPI 2.0% 2.0% 2.2% 2.2% The mortality assumptions imply the following expectations of years of life from age 65: Man currently aged 40 23.7 23.7 23.5 23.5 Woman currently aged 40 25.8 25.8 25.5 25.5 Man currently aged 65 21.9 21.9 22.1 22.1 Woman currently aged 65 23.8 23.8 23.9 23.9 Mortality assumptions are based on standard tables adjusted for scheme experience and with an allowance for future improvement in life expectancy.
The table below shows the investment allocation of pension assets against the related liabilities of the pension schemes: Pension schemes 2018 2017 Greene King Spirit Total Greene King Spirit Total m m m m m m Investment quoted in active markets Equities 298.5 103.5 402.0 290.6 120.0 410.6 Bonds 65.5 287.6 353.1 71.1 354.6 425.7 Property 53.4 53.4 48.0 48.0 Annuities 1.3 1.3 1.5 1.5 Unquoted investments Annuities insurance contracts 45.5 45.5 Cash 2.0 1.9 3.9 0.1 2.1 2.2 Total fair value of assets 367.3 491.9 859.2 363.3 524.7 888.0 Present value of scheme liabilities: Funded plans 365.8 479.8 845.6 391.3 507.9 899.2 Non current asset liability recognised 1.5 12.1 13.6 28.0 16.8 11.2 Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 9 Pensions continued Defined benefit pension schemes and post-employment benefits continued During the year the Spirit scheme entered into a buy-in policy that provides insurance for a proportion of its pensioner population.
The value of the buy-in policy on an IAS 19 accounting basis matches the value of the underlying pension obligations.
139.3m 2017: 177.8m of the bonds shown in the table above are liabilitydriven investments designed to match the change in value of the schemesliabilities.
The movements in the pension schemes assets liabilities during the year are as follows: Pension assets Pension liabilities Net pension Greene King Spirit Greene King Spirit liability asset m m m m m Post-employment assets liabilities at 1 May 2016 312.0 489.2 360.6 492.9 52.3 Pension interest income costs recognised in the income statement 10.4 15.9 12.0 16.0 1.7 Benefits paid 16.6 16.8 16.6 16.8 Settlement 25.4 27.0 1.6 Remeasurement gains losses in other comprehensive income: Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interestexpenses 54.2 61.2 115.4 Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions 4.8 5.0 9.8 Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions 44.5 47.8 92.3 Experience adjustments 4.4 4.4 Contributions paid employers 3.3 0.6 3.9 Post-employment assets liabilities at 30 April 2017 363.3 524.7 391.3 507.9 11.2 Pension interest income costs recognised in the income statement 9.6 14.3 10.3 13.9 0.3 Benefits paid 17.3 24.0 17.3 24.0 Remeasurement gains losses in other comprehensive income: Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interestexpenses 8.1 23.1 15.0 Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions 2.2 2.9 5.1 Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions 16.3 15.1 31.4 Contributions paid employers 3.6 3.6 Post-employment assets liabilities at 29 April 2018 367.3 491.9 365.8 479.8 13.6 Presented in the balance sheet as follows: 2018 2017 m m Post-employment assets 13.6 16.8 Post-employment liabilities 28.0 13.6 11.2 Post-employment benefits liability 2018 2017 m m At beginning of year 1.3 Released 1.3 At end of year The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions assessed in isolation that have been used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below: Decrease increase in liability 2018 2017 m m 0.25% points increase in discount rate 38.1 40.5 0.25% points increase in inflation assumption 29.9 31.8 Additional one-year increase to life expectancy 34.4 36.6 The following payments, which are also the minimum funding requirements, are the expected contributions to the defined benefit plan in future years: 2018 2017 m m Within 1 year 3.3 3.3 Between 2 and 5 years 13.1 13.1 Between 5 and 10 years 6.4 9.7 22.8 26.1 The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the year is 1718 years 2017: 1819 years.
102 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 Taxation 2018 2017 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional and nonand nonand nonand nonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total Consolidated income statement m m m m m m Income tax Corporation tax before exceptional and non-underlying items 38.7 38.7 43.3 43.3 Recoverable on exceptional and non-underlying items 9.9 9.9 11.1 11.1 Current income tax 38.7 9.9 28.8 43.3 11.1 32.2 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 6.5 6.5 0.8 0.8 38.7 16.4 22.3 43.3 10.3 33.0 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 9.9 6.8 3.1 11.0 6.2 4.8 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 9.6 9.6 0.3 0.3 Tax credit in respect of rate change 4.3 4.3 9.9 2.8 12.7 11.0 10.8 0.2 Tax charge credit in the income statement 48.6 13.6 35.0 54.3 21.1 33.2 2018 2017 Group statement of comprehensive income m m Deferred tax Remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension schemes 3.6 6.3 Net gain loss on revaluation on cash flow hedges 7.0 2.1 Tax charge in respect of rate change 3.6 10.6 7.8 Income tax Net loss on revaluation on cash flow hedges 2.0 Total tax 10.6 5.8 2018 2017 Group statement of changes in equity m m Deferred tax Share-based payment future taxable benefit 0.3 0.6 Tax charge in respect of rate change 0.1 Deferred tax reported in equity 0.3 0.5 Income tax Share-based payments current taxable benefit 0.3 Total tax reported in equity 0.5 Reconciliation of income tax expense for the year The effective rate of taxation is lower 2017: lower than the full rate of corporation tax.
The differences are explained below: 2018 2017 m m Profit before tax 197.5 184.9 Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate corporation tax of 19.0% 2017: 19.9% 37.5 36.8 Effects of: Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes 3.3 0.8 Profit on disposal with no deferred tax impact 4.1 2.1 Impairment with no deferred tax impact 10.0 8.6 Impact of deferred tax in respect of licensed estate 14.0 9.5 Impact of deferred tax being at different rate to income tax 0.8 1.8 Impact of change in tax rate on deferred tax balances 4.3 Adjustment in respect of prior years income tax 6.5 0.8 Adjustment in respect of prior years deferred tax 9.6 0.3 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 35.0 33.2 Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 10 Taxation continued Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax liability Post-employment assets 2.2 Accelerated capital allowances 34.4 24.2 Rolled over gains and property revaluation 15.3 Operating leases 19.3 25.4 Other temporary differences 11.9 14.5 67.8 79.4 Deferred tax asset Post-employment liabilities 2.0 Derivative financial instruments 54.6 75.7 Share-based payments 0.1 0.1 Off-market contract liabilities 41.8 48.4 Capital losses carried forward 5.5 Trading losses carried forward 1.0 1.0 97.5 132.7 Net deferred tax asset 29.7 53.3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset income tax assets and income tax liabilities and when it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have therefore been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows: 29 April 2018 30 April 2017 m m Deferred tax liability 9.8 Deferred tax asset 29.7 63.1 Net deferred tax asset 29.7 53.3 The deferred tax included in the income statement is as follows: 2018 2017 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional and nonand nonand nonand nonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Deferred tax in the income statement Accelerated capital allowances 7.1 3.1 10.2 4.7 11.3 6.6 Rolled over gains and property revaluations 15.3 15.3 14.3 14.3 Operating lease intangibles 5.2 0.9 6.1 1.7 1.6 3.3 Post-employment liabilities 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.3 Other temporary differences 2.6 2.6 0.4 5.4 5.8 Derivative financial instruments 2.1 12.0 14.1 2.7 0.6 3.3 Share-based payments 0.3 0.3 0.5 1.5 2.0 Off-market contract liabilities 5.6 1.0 6.6 2.3 3.0 5.3 Capital losses carried forward 5.5 5.5 6.2 6.2 Tax losses carried forward 1.5 1.5 Deferred tax charge credit 9.9 2.8 12.7 11.0 10.8 0.2 104 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 Taxation continued Deferred tax continued The movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below: Rolled over PostAccelerated gains and Operating Other employment capital property lease temporary assets allowances revaluation intangibles differences Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m m m At 1 May 2016 30.8 29.6 28.7 8.7 97.8 Credit charge to the income statement 6.6 14.3 3.3 5.8 18.4 At 30 April 2017 24.2 15.3 25.4 14.5 79.4 Charge credit to the income statement 10.2 15.3 6.1 2.6 13.8 Transfer from deferred tax assets 2.2 2.2 At 29 April 2018 2.2 34.4 19.3 11.9 67.8 Capital Trading PostOff-market losses losses employment Share-based contract carried carried liabilities Derivatives payments liability forward forward Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m m m At 1 May 2016 9.7 79.4 1.6 53.7 11.7 2.5 158.6 Charge credit to equity comprehensive income 7.4 0.4 0.5 7.3 Charge to the income statement 0.3 3.3 2.0 5.3 6.2 1.5 18.6 At 30 April 2017 2.0 75.7 0.1 48.4 5.5 1.0 132.7 Charge to equity comprehensive income 3.6 7.0 0.3 10.9 Charge credit to the income statement 0.6 14.1 0.3 6.6 5.5 26.5 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 2.2 2.2 At 29 April 2018 54.6 0.1 41.8 1.0 97.5 There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by Greene King plc to its shareholders.
At 29 April 2018, the group had unused trading losses of 5.3m 2017: 5.3m and unused capital losses of 805.9m 2017: 809.7m.
A deferred tax asset of 1.0m 2017: 1.0m has been recognised in respect of trading losses and no deferred tax asset 2017: 5.5m in respect of capital losses where tax losses are expected to be utilised against future profits and gains.
Current legislation allows all of the groups tax losses to be carried forward for an unlimited period.
Factors that may affect future tax charges The Finance Act 2016 reduced the rate of corporation tax from 19% to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The rate was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and is therefore included in these accounts.
11 Dividends paid and proposed 2018 2017 m m Declared and paid in the period Interim dividend for 2018: 8.8p 2017: 8.8p 27.3 27.2 Final dividend for 2017: 24.4p 2016: 23.6p 75.6 72.9 102.9 100.1 Proposed for approval at AGM Final dividend for 2018: 24.4p 2017: 24.4p 75.6 75.6 Total paid and proposed dividend for 2018: 33.2p 2017: 33.2p 102.9 102.8 Dividends on own shares have been waived.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 12 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of 162.5m 2017: 151.7m by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 309.9m 2017: 309.4m.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated on a similar basis taking account of 0.5m 2017: 0.8m dilutive potential shares under option, giving a weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution of 310.4m 2017: 310.2m.
There were no 2017: nil anti-dilutive share options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
The performance conditions for share options granted over 2.7m 2017: 2.4m shares have not been met in the current financial year and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the year end has not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation.
Adjusted earnings per share excludes the effect of exceptional and non-underlying items and is presented to show the underlying performance of the group on both a basic and diluted basis.
Earnings Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Adjusted earnings per share m m p p p p Profit attributable to equity holders 162.5 151.7 52.4 49.0 52.3 48.9 Exceptional and non-underlying items 31.9 67.5 10.3 21.8 10.3 21.8 Profit attributable to equity holders before exceptional and non-underlying items 194.4 219.2 62.7 70.8 62.6 70.7 13 Goodwill and other intangible assets Operating Total Brand lease other intangibles intangibles intangibles Goodwill m m m m Cost At 1 May 2016 16.1 168.3 184.4 1,121.9 Disposal 1.3 1.3 13.1 At 30 April 2017 16.1 167.0 183.1 1,108.8 Disposal 26.5 26.5 19.1 At 29 April 2018 16.1 140.5 156.6 1,089.7 Impairment and amortisation At 1 May 2016 0.9 8.9 9.8 Amortisation 1.1 8.9 10.0 Disposal 0.4 0.4 At 30 April 2017 2.0 17.4 19.4 Amortisation 1.1 8.7 9.8 Impairment note 5 1.7 5.4 7.1 Disposal 4.4 4.4 At 29 April 2018 4.8 27.1 31.9 Net book value At 29 April 2018 11.3 113.4 124.7 1,089.7 At 30 April 2017 14.1 149.6 163.7 1,108.8 At 1 May 2016 15.2 159.4 174.6 1,121.9 Other intangibles consists of brand intangibles and operating lease intangibles both recognised as part of business combinations.
Brand intangibles are amortised over the expected life of the asset, and have a remaining useful life of 12 years.
The recoverable amount for assets impaired were based on value in use.
Operating lease intangibles are amortised on a straight-line basis over the length of the lease.
The recoverable amount for assets impaired was based on a combination of value in use or fair value less cost of disposal.
The impairment charge is made up of the following segments: Pub Company 2.4m and Corporate 4.7m.
All goodwill was recognised as part of business combinations.
Goodwill has been allocated to operating segments, the lowest group of cash-generating units in the group at which goodwill is monitored internally, based on the extent that the benefits of acquisitions flow to that segment.
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated as follows: 2018 2017 m m Pub Company 677.1 691.6 Pub Partners 177.7 182.3 Brewing & Brands 234.9 234.9 1,089.7 1,108.8 106 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Goodwill disposed of in the year 2018 2017 m m Pub Company 14.5 8.3 Pub Partners 4.6 4.8 19.1 13.1 Goodwill impairment testing The recoverable amount of each segment was determined on a value-in-use basis, using cash flow projections based on one-year budgets approved by the board, and in all cases exceeded the carrying amount.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations are budgeted EBITDA, the pre-tax discount rate and the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budgeted period.
Budgeted EBITDA, which is based on the groups latest three-year strategic plan, reflecting a growth rate of 1.15% in Pub Company 2017: 1.75%, 1.09% inPub Partners 2017: 2.50% and 1.00% in Brewing & Brands 2017: 1.00%, has been used to extrapolate cash flows.
The growth rate is below the long-term average growth rate for the operating segments and reflects anticipated trends in future trading performance.
Cash flows are discounted at 7.50% 2017: 8.65% which is used as an approximation for the risk-adjusted discount rate of the relevant operating segment.
The discount rate has been based on external valuations.
As risk factors are considered to be similar in each of the groups operating segments the same level of discount rate is applied to all.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The goodwill valuation is most sensitive to changes in the assumptions used for budgeted cash flow, pre-tax discount rate and growth rate.
Management considers that reasonable possible changes in assumptions would be an increase in pre-tax discount rate of 1% point, a reduction in growth rate of 1% point or a 10% reduction in budgeted cash flow.
As an indication of sensitivity, when applied to the value-in-use calculation in isolation, neither a 1% reduction in growth rate, a 10% reduction in budgeted cash flow, nor a 1% increase in the pre-tax discount rate would have resulted in an impairment of goodwill in the year.
14 Property, plant and equipment Licensed estate Other Land and Plant and Land and Plant and buildings equipment buildings equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2016 3,443.5 905.5 70.6 132.7 4,552.3 Additions during year 76.2 92.4 5.4 12.9 186.9 Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale 6.1 0.7 6.8 Disposals during year 58.1 23.2 4.1 0.1 85.5 At 30 April 2017 3,455.5 974.0 71.9 145.5 4,646.9 Additions during year 74.2 107.8 1.7 8.7 192.4 Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale 36.3 11.6 0.2 48.1 Disposals during year 58.6 14.7 5.0 0.2 78.5 Reclassification 118.6 82.8 3.0 12.5 210.9 At 29 April 2018 3,316.2 972.7 71.4 141.5 4,501.8 Depreciation and impairment At 1 May 2016 196.8 575.6 16.5 92.1 881.0 Provided during the year 14.4 81.2 2.2 4.8 102.6 Written back on disposals 0.3 15.0 0.1 0.1 15.5 Impairment see below 77.7 77.7 Impairment reversal see below 19.1 19.1 Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale 1.2 0.5 1.7 At 30 April 2017 268.3 641.3 18.6 96.8 1,025.0 Provided during the year 13.5 81.3 2.3 6.6 103.7 Written back on disposals 18.0 8.5 2.5 29.0 Impairment see below 64.0 11.7 0.3 0.1 76.1 Impairment reversal see below 11.7 1.1 12.8 Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale 28.8 10.7 39.5 Reclassification 60.4 147.2 1.1 2.2 210.9 At 29 April 2018 226.9 566.8 17.6 101.3 912.6 Net book value At 29 April 2018 3,089.3 405.9 53.8 40.2 3,589.2 At 30 April 2017 3,187.2 332.7 53.3 48.7 3,621.9 At 1 May 2016 3,246.7 329.9 54.1 40.6 3,671.3 Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 14 Property, plant and equipment continued The licensed estate relates to properties, and assets held within those properties, licensed to trade i. e. managed, tenanted and leased houses.
Otherassets relate to property, plant and equipment associated with unlicensed properties i. e. brewing, distribution, and central assets.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises: 2018 2017 m m Freehold properties 2,978.5 3,078.3 Leasehold properties 50 years unexpired term 109.0 104.6 Leasehold properties 50 years unexpired term 55.6 57.6 3,143.1 3,240.5 Review of property, plant and equipment Following a review of fixed asset ledgers, a reclassification of asset categories with an aggregate cost and accumulated depreciation of 210.9m was identified, and is reflected in the above reconciliation of movements in property, plant and equipment.
Valuation The licensed estate properties were valued by the groups own professionally qualified chartered surveyors, as at 20 December 2003, on the basis of existing use value, in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
A representative sample of properties was also valued by external valuers, Gerald Eve Chartered Surveyors and Property Consultants, who confirmed that the values were consistent with their appraisal.
Frozen revaluation has been taken as deemed cost on the transition to IFRS, therefore no historic cost analysis is provided.
Up to 1999 the brewery and depots were valued at depreciated replacement cost and other properties at open market value.
These valuations have been retained but they have not been updated.
Subsequent additions have been included at cost or, in the case of acquisitions, at fair value.
Charges over assets Included in land and buildings are properties with a group net book value of 1,334.1m 2017: 1,368.7m and 1,008.3m 2017: 1,246.1m over which there is a first charge in favour of the securitised debt holders of the Greene King secured financing vehicle and the Spirit secured financing vehicle respectively.
Assets held under finance leases The group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties and other assets under finance leases.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Included in property, plant and equipment above are properties held under finance leases with a net book value of 21.7m 2017: 21.4m.
Future capital expenditure 2018 2017 m m Contracted for 13.6 8.1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment During the period to 29 April 2018 the group has recognised a net impairment loss of 63.3m 2017: 58.6m.
This is comprised of an impairment charge of 76.1m 2017: 77.7m and reversal of previously recognised impairment losses of 12.8m 2017: 19.1m.
The recoverable amounts for assets impaired were based on a combination of value in use or fair value less cost of disposal.
These are analysed between the groups principal reporting segments as shown below: 2018 2017 Reversal of Net Reversal of Net Impairment impairment impairment Impairment impairment impairment m m m m m m Pub Company 61.9 10.8 51.1 62.2 14.7 47.5 Pub Partners 13.9 2.0 11.9 14.4 4.4 10.0 Corporate 0.3 0.3 1.1 1.1 76.1 12.8 63.3 77.7 19.1 58.6 The group considers that each of its individual pubs is a cash-generating unit CGU.
Each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
Whenindicators of impairment are identified the carrying value of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount for assets impaired were based on a combination of value in use or fair value less cost of disposal.
The group estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
The key assumptions used are expected cash flow projections for the next year, the discount rate applied to those cash flows of 7.50% 2017: 8.65% and the projected cash flows extrapolated using an average growth rate of 1.15% in Pub Company 2017: 1.75% and 1.09% in Pub Partners 2017: 2.50% which are below the long-term average growth rate for the operating segments and reflects anticipated trends in future trading performance.
Cash flow projections relating to individual CGUs have been made based on historic trends adjusted for managements estimates of medium-term trading prospects.
Estimates of fair value less costs of disposal are based on both internal and external valuations, with the latest external valuation being performed in May 2018.
The valuation considers assumptions such as current and future projected income levels, which take account of the location and quality of the pub.
In addition recent market transactions in the sector and potential alternative use values have been considered.
The valuation techniques applied are consistent with the principles in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
As they use significant unobservable inputs they are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, which is further explained in note 23.
108 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment of property, plant and equipment continued The impairment charge recognised in relation to a small number of pubs was driven by changes in the local competitive and trading environment at their respective sites, and decisions taken to exit some sites where current market values are lower than book values.
The impairment reversals have been recognised following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in amounts of estimated future cash flows for previously impaired sites.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon judgments used in arriving at fair values, future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
The net impact on the impairment charge of applying different assumptions to fair values, the growth rates used to calculate cash flow projections and in the pre-tax discount rates would be as follows: A 10% reduction in fair A 1% increase A 1% reduction value less cost of disposal in discount rate in growth rate 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Increased net impairment resulting from: m m m m m m Pub Company 6.2 22.7 23.1 8.4 23.1 8.4 Pub Partners 2.0 2.2 3.1 2.7 3.1 2.7 8.2 24.9 26.2 11.1 26.2 11.1 15 Financial assets 2018 2017 m m Trade loans net of provision 10.5 10.1 Total current 10.5 10.1 Trade loans net of provision 12.9 15.8 Other financial assets 0.3 0.5 Total non-current 13.2 16.3 Trade loans are net of provisions of 5.1m 2017: 5.1m.
During the year 0.2m 2017: 0.3m of the provision was utilised and 0.2m 2017: 0.3m ofnew provision was created.
All trade loans that are neither past due nor impaired are expected to be fully recoverable.
All significant overdue balances are fully provided for.
Trade loans are advanced to customers on terms linked to supply terms such that returns are greater than interest income.
The fixed rate trade loans amounted to 17.2m 2017: 18.8m and variable rate trade loans amounted to 11.3m 2017: 12.2m.
Included in fixed rate loans are 16.2m of loans with settlement related to purchase levels 2017: 15.7m.
The write-down of these loans has been taken on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the loan as an approximation of the settlement.
The fixed rate trade loans had a weighted average interest rate of 0.2% 2017: 0.3% and a weighted average period of 2.92 years 2017: 3.30 years.
Interest rates on variable rate trade loans are linked to base rate.
2018 2017 Trade loans net of provision m m Balance at beginning of year 25.9 26.1 Advances 3.4 6.1 Repayments 5.9 6.3 Balance at end of year 23.4 25.9 Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 16 Subsidiary undertakings The subsidiary undertakings are: Proportion of voting Principal Country of rights and Subsidiary undertakings activity incorporation Held by Holding ownership Directly held by Greene King plc 1 Greene King Developments Limited Property England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 2 Greene King EBT Investment Jersey Limited Holding company Jersey Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King GP Limited Dormant England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Investments Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Pension Scheme Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Properties Limited Property England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Pubs Limited Property England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Retailing Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 3 Norman Limited Holding company Guernsey Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Realpubs Limited Financing England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Rushmere Sports Club Limited Financing England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 The Capital Pub Company Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% Indirectly held by Greene King plc 1 Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited Property England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Ashes Investment LP Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Aspect Ventures Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 AVL Pubs No.
1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 AVL Pubs No.
2 Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 4 Belhaven Brewery Company Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 4 Belhaven Finance Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 4 Belhaven Pubs Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Capital Pub Company Trading Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% Preference shares 100% 1 Chef & Brewer Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 City Limits Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Cleveland Place Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Cloverleaf Restaurants Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 CPH Palladium Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Dearg Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Freshwild Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 G. K. Holdings No.
1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Acquisitions No.
3 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Acquisitions No.
2 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Brewing and Retailing Limited Brewing and retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Leasing No.
1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Leasing No.
2 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Neighbourhood Estate Pubs Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Retail Services Limited Employment England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Retailing Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Services Limited Employment England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Hardys & Hansons Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Huggins and Company Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 4 LFR Group Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Mountloop Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Narnain Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1.
Registered office: Westgate Brewery, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP33 1QT.
Registered office: 18 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8RT.
Registered office: Hambro House, St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3AE.
Registered office: Belhaven Brewery, Brewery Lane, Dunbar, East Lothian EH42 1PE.
110 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 Subsidiary undertakings continued Proportion of voting Principal Country of rights and Subsidiary undertakings activity incorporation Held by Holding ownership 1 Old English Inns Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Open House Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Premium Casual Dining Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 2 Premium Dining Restaurants and Pubs Limited Retailing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 R. V. Goodhew Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% Deferred ordinary 100% shares 1 Realpubs Developments Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Realpubs II Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Sapphire Food North East No.
1 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Sapphire Food North West No.
3 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Sapphire Food South East No.
4 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Sapphire Food South West No.
2 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Sapphire Rural Destination No.
5 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit AKE Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Faith Limited Property England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Legacy Pension Trustee Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit PSC Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Redwood Bidco Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit SGL Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Acquisition Properties Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1,4 Spirit Acquisitions Guarantee Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary n a n a 1 Spirit Acquisitions Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Financial Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 3 Spirit Finco Limited Non-trading Cayman Islands Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 3 Spirit Funding Limited Non-trading Cayman Islands Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Equity Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Pension Trustee Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Retail Northampton Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% Preference shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Retail South Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Retail Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% Preference shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Retail Pensions Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Intermediate Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Managed Funding Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% Preference shares 100% 1 Spirit Managed Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Managed Inns Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Derwent Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Holdco Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Investments Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Leased Limited Leasing of public houses England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Managed Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Services Limited Administration England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1.
Registered office: PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1004.
Company is limited by guarantee.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 16 Subsidiary undertakings continued Proportion of voting Principal Country of rights and Subsidiary undertakings activity incorporation Held by Holding ownership 1 Spirit Pub Company SGE Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Supply Limited Procurement England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Trent Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pubs Debenture Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pubs Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Retail Bidco Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Springtarn Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 The Chef & Brewer Group Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 The Nice Pub Company Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Tom Cobleigh Group Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Tom Cobleigh Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Tom Cobleigh Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Whitegate Taverns Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1.
17 Inventories 2018 2017 m m Raw materials and work in progress 4.4 5.4 Finished goods and goods for resale 39.5 36.7 Consumable stores 3.8 2.9 47.7 45.0 18 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 m m Other receivables 0.1 0.1 Total non-current 0.1 0.1 Trade receivables 69.9 73.9 Other receivables 17.6 19.4 Total current 87.5 93.3 Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Not past due 61.4 65.8 Past due Less than 30 days 4.5 2.5 3060 days 0.2 2.4 Greater than 60 days 3.8 3.2 69.9 73.9 Trade receivables are shown net of a provision of 4.9m 2017: 5.4m.
112 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 115.9 202.1 Short-term deposits 52.6 83.4 Liquidity facility reserve note 22 157.5 Cash and cash equivalents for balance sheet 168.5 443.0 Bank overdrafts note 22 Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow 168.5 443.0 Included within cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits is 74.6m 2017: 112.0m and 90.4m 2017: 88.9m held within securitised bank accounts which are only available for use by the Greene King secured financing vehicle and the Spirit secured financing vehicle respectively.
The Greene King secured financing vehicle comprises Greene King Retailing Parent Limited and its subsidiaries and the Spirit secured financing vehicle comprises Spirit Pubs Debenture Holdings Limited and certain of its subsidiaries.
The Greene King secured financing vehicles liquidity facility reserve was fully repaid during the year as explained in note 22.
Interest receivable on cash and short-term deposits is linked to base rate and is received either monthly or in line with the term of the deposit.
20 Property, plant and equipment held for sale 2018 2017 m m Property, plant and equipment held for sale 8.6 5.1 At the year end, property, plant and equipment held for sale of 8.6m 2017: 5.1m represents pubs that are being actively marketed for sale with expected completion dates within one year.
The value of property, plant and equipment held for sale represents the expected net disposal proceeds: further details on the valuation of fair value less costs of disposal are held in note 14.
The impairment charge on reclassification to assets held for sale for these sites was 0.5m 2017: nil.
21 Trade and other payables 2018 2017 m m Trade payables 120.5 110.0 Other payables: Other taxation and social security costs 108.7 91.8 Accruals and deferred income 175.8 209.9 Interest payable 15.0 17.6 Total current 420.0 429.3 Other payables 1.8 1.9 Total non-current 1.8 1.9 Trade payables and other payables are non-interest bearing.
Interest payable is mainly settled monthly, quarterly or semi-annually throughout the year, inaccordance with the terms of the related financial instrument.
Interest payable in 2017 also includes interest on uncertain tax positions.
22 Borrowings 2018 2017 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Repayment date m m m m m m Liquidity facility loan On demand 157.5 157.5 Unsecured bank loans floating rate Facility A 2021 88.8 88.8 168.3 168.3 Facility B 2020 184.3 184.3 Secured debt: Issued by Greene King Finance plc 2005 to 2036 51.3 1,292.2 1,343.5 48.9 1,343.6 1,392.5 Issued by Spirit Issuer plc 2015 to 2036 2.1 561.5 563.6 11.7 765.9 777.6 Obligations under finance leases 2015 to 2084 1.2 19.4 20.6 1.6 20.0 21.6 54.6 2,146.2 2,200.8 219.7 2,297.8 2,517.5 Bank overdrafts Overdrafts are utilised for the day to day management of cash.
The group has facilities of 25.0m 2017: 25.0m available with interest linked to base rate.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 22 Borrowings continued Bank loans unsecured In November 2017 the group amended its existing 400m revolving credit facility Facility A to incorporate an additional 350m three-year revolving facility Facility B, taking the total facilities to 750m.
Facility B is available to fund the internal transfer of pubs from the Spirit secured financing vehicle, improving the groups ability to refinance Spirit secured loan notes and related interest rate swaps.
In December 2017 a draw-down of 187.0m took place under Facility B in connection with the repayment of certain Spirit secured loan notes.
Of the 400.0m 2017: 400.0m available under Facility A, 90.0m 2017: 170.0m was drawn down at the year end with a carrying value of 88.8m 2017: 168.3m which included 1.2m 2017: 1.7m of fees.
Of the 350.0m 2017: nil available under Facility B, 187.0m 2017: nil was drawn down at the year end with a carrying value of 184.3m 2017: nil which included 2.7m 2017: nil of fees.
Any amounts drawn down bear interest at a margin above LIBOR and the group is charged a utilisation fee based on the proportion of each facility drawn.
Commitment interest is charged on the undrawn portions.
Interest is payable upon repayment of each draw-down, which vary in length.
Although any individual draw-downs are repayable within 12 months of the balance sheet date, the group expects to renew this funding and immediate renewal is available under Facility A until October 2021 and Facility B until November 2020.
Under each facility, final repayment of the total drawn-down balance is due as one payment on the agreement repayment date.
Greene King secured financing vehicle The group has issued various tranches of bonds in connection with the securitisation of pubs operated by Greene King Retailing Limited.
The bonds aresecured over the properties and their future income streams and were issued by Greene King Finance plc.
Carrying value is net of related deferred finance fees.
Includes the effect of interest rate swap rates on the floating rate notes: the groups interest rate swap arrangements are discussed in note 23.
This assumes notes are held until final maturity.
B1 tranche switches to floating rate L 1.80% in March 2020 with a swap rate of 5.16%-L.
The interest payable on each of the floating tranches is as follows: Interest Total rate Interest interest 1 Tranche payable rate swap rate A1 L 0.95% 5.16%-L 6.11% A3 L 1.25% 4.84%-L 6.09% A5 L 2.50% 1.43%-L 3.93% B2 L 2.08% 4.84%-L 6.92% 1.
For variable rate bonds the interest rate payable is three-month LIBOR L plus the margin as shown.
Repayment of the nominal is made by quarterly instalments, in accordance with the repayment schedule, over the period shown above.
Payment of interest is made on quarterly dates for all classes of bond.
All of the floating rate bonds are fully hedged using interest rate swaps.
The Class A1, A2, A3, A4, A5 and A6 bonds rank pari passu in point of security and as to payment of interest and principal, and have preferential interest payment and repayment rights over the Class B bonds.
The Class B1 and B2 bonds rank pari passu in point of security, principal repayment and interest payment.
The securitisation is governed by various covenants, warranties and events of default, many of which apply to Greene King Retailing Limited, a group company.
These include covenants regarding the maintenance and disposal of securitised properties and restrictions on its ability to move cash to other group companies.
Liquidity facility In 2014 the standby liquidity facility provider to the Greene King secured financing vehicle, the Royal Bank of Scotland, had its short-term credit rating downgraded below the minimum prescribed in the facility agreement and as such the group exercised its entitlement to draw the full amount of the facility and hold it in a designated bank account.
Amounts drawn down under the liquidity facility can only be used for the purpose of meeting the securitisations debt service obligations should there ever be insufficient funds available from operations to meet such payments.
As such, the drawn-down balance wasconsidered to be restricted cash.
In December 2017 the facility agreement was amended to bring the credit rating of the liquidity facility provider within the permitted range.
Consequently, the drawn-down balance of 157.5m was fully repaid and the amount drawn down at the year end was nil 2017: 157.5m.
114 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 Borrowings continued Spirit secured financing vehicle Following the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company on 23 June 2015, the group has various secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc.
The secured loan notes have been secured by way of fixed and floating charges over various property assets of Spirit Pub Company Managed Ltd and Spirit Pub Company Leased Ltd.
The groups secured loan notes, issued by Spirit Issuer plc, consist of the following: 1 2 Carrying value m Interest rate % Last Nominal value repayment Weighted 3 Tranche m 2018 2017 Interest 2018 2017 period average life Class A1 26.3 Floating 8.37% Class A2 186.6 182.2 181.8 Floating 9.38% 9.42% 2029 9.7 years Class A3 27.1 Floating 6.13% 4 Class A4 207.7 216.4 218.4 Fixed floating 6.58% 6.58% 2025 4.3 years 5 Class A5 158.5 165.0 165.5 Fixed floating 5.47% 6.49% 2032 12.9 years Class A6 99.5 Floating 8.52% Class A7 59.0 Floating 8.48% 552.8 563.6 777.6 1.
Carrying value includes premium arising from fair value adjustment.
Includes the effect of interest rate swap rates on the floating rate notes.
The groups interest rate swap arrangements are discussed in note 23.
The 2017 comparatives also include the cost of a financial guarantee provided by Ambac which was terminated during the year.
The A4 tranche switches to a floating rate of L 2.78% in December 2018 with a swap rate of 4.56%-L. 5.
The A5 tranche switches to a floating rate of L 0.75% in December 2028 with a swap rate of 4.56%-L.
The interest payable on each of the floating tranches is as follows: Interest Interest Total 1 Tranche rate payable rate swap interest rate A2 L 2.70% 6.68%-L2 9.38% 1.
For the floating rate A2 note the rate payable is three-month LIBOR L plus the margin as shown.
In September 2018 the rate on the A2 swap increases to 6.79%-L.
Repayment of the nominal is made by quarterly instalments, in accordance with the repayment schedule, within the date ranges shown above.
Paymentof interest is made on quarterly dates for all classes of secured loan notes.
The secured loan notes rank pari passu in point of security and as to payment of interest and principal.
The debenture is governed by various covenants, warranties and events of default, many of which apply to Spirit Pub Company Managed Ltd and SpiritPub Company Leased Ltd, both of which are group companies.
These include covenants regarding the maintenance and disposal of secured properties and restrictions on the ability to move cash to other group companies and utilisation of disposal proceeds.
In June 2017 the group fully repaid the 27.7m Class A3 secured loan note issued by Spirit Issuer plc at par.
In August 2017 a financial guarantee provided by Ambac was terminated.
The guarantee was in respect of the A1, A3 and A5 secured loan notes andtwo interest rate swaps relating to the A1, A2 and A6 notes.
This resulted in a reduction in the allin interest rate applicable to these tranches.
In December 2017 the group fully repaid the 29.5m Class A1, 101.3m Class A6 and 58.4m Class A7 secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc atpar.
This eliminates the cash sweep and 1.5% margin stepup on the A6 and A7 notes which were due to commence in September 2018.
The group also terminated two interest rate swaps in relation to the repaid notes.
Obligations under finance leases Upon acquisition of Spirit Pub Company on 23 June 2015, the group acquired leases of property, plant and equipment where it substantially has all the risks and rewards of ownership, which have been classified as finance leases.
In the balance sheet a corresponding liability has been included as finance lease obligation.
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2018 2017 Present Present Minimum value Minimum value lease of future lease of future payments obligations payments obligations m m m m Within one year 1.2 1.2 1.6 1.6 Between one and five years 4.6 3.9 4.9 4.0 Over five years 49.7 15.5 52.0 16.0 55.5 20.6 58.5 21.6 Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 23 Financial instruments The primary treasury objectives of the group are to identify and manage the financial risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs, and provide secure and competitively priced funding for the activities of the group.
If appropriate, the group uses financial instruments and derivatives tomanage these risks.
The principal financial instruments held for the purpose of raising finance for operations are bank loans and overdrafts, secured bonds, cash and short-term deposits.
Other financial instruments arise directly from the operations of the group, such as trade and other receivables, trade payables, and trade loans.
Derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, are used to manage the interest rate risks related to the groups operations and financing sources.
No speculative trading in derivative financial instruments is undertaken.
The main risks arising from the groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The policy for managing each of these risks is set out below.
Interest rate risk Exposure to changes in interest rates on the groups borrowings is reviewed with regard to the maturity profile and cash flows of the underlying debt.
The group uses a mixture of fixed and floating interest rate debt with exposure to market interest rate fluctuations primarily arising from the floating rate instruments.
The groups aim is that no less than 95% of the overall interest exposure should be at a fixed rate.
The group enters into interest rate swaps to manage the exposure.
Certain swaps are designated as cash flow hedges at inception, and tested for effectiveness every six months.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the group has undertaken sensitivity analysis on its financial instruments which are affected by changes in interest rates.
This analysis has been prepared on the basis of a constant amount of net debt, a constant ratio of fixed to floating interest rates, and on the basis of the hedging instruments in place at 29 April 2018 and 30 April 2017.
The analysis relates only to balances at these dates and is not representative of the year as a whole.
The following assumptions were made: Balance sheet sensitivity to interest rates applies only to derivative financial instruments, as the carrying value of debt and deposits does not change asinterest rates move.
Gains and losses are recognised within other comprehensive income or the income statement in line with the accounting policies of the group.
Cash flow hedges were assumed to be effective or ineffective on the same basis as those as at the year end.
Based on the groups net position at the year end, a 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would change the groups profit before tax by approximately 31.2m 2017: 47.8m and the groups OCI by 58.4m 2017: 65.4m.
An increase in interest rates would increase the groups profit.
Whilst cash flow interest rate risk is largely eliminated, the use of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments exposes the group to fair value interest rate risk such that the group would not significantly benefit from falls in interest rates and would be exposed to unplanned costs, such as break costs, should debt or derivative financial instruments be restructured or repaid early.
The percentage of net debt that was fixed as at the year end was 94.4% 2017: 95.8%, broadly in line with the groups target of fixing 95% of all net debt.
Liquidity risk The group mitigates liquidity risk by managing cash generated by its operations combined with bank borrowings and long-term debt.
The groups objective is to maintain a balance between the continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of overdrafts and bank loans.
The group also monitors the maturity of financial liabilities to avoid the risk of a shortage of funds.
The standard payment terms that the group has with its suppliers is 60 days following month end 2017: 60 days following month end.
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is placed on interest-bearing deposit with maturities fixed at no more than one month.
Short-term flexibility is achieved through the use of short-term borrowing on the money markets under the groups revolving credit facility.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the groups financial liabilities at 29 April 2018 and 30 April 2017 based on contractual undiscounted payments including interest.
Credit risk is the risk of default by the counterparty to discharge its obligation and the maximum exposure of the group is the carrying amount of these instruments.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents islimited by investment of surplus funds with banks and financial institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international credit agencies.
The policy for third party trading is that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to regular credit verification procedures.
Receivable balances are also monitored on an ongoing basis and provided against where deemed necessary to limit the exposure to bad debts to a non-significant level.
There is no significant collateral held and there are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the group.
Financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting At 29 April 2018 the group held four 2017: four interest rate swap contracts for a nominal value of 470.1m 2017: 500.7m, which are designated cash flow hedges against 470.1m 2017: 500.7m of variable rate bonds issued by Greene King Finance plc.
These swaps are hedges of the A1, A3, A5 and B2 tranches, receiving a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR and paying a fixed rate of 5.155% on the A1 tranche, 4.837% on the A3 tranche, 1.426% on the A5 tranche and 4.837% on the B2 tranche.
The weighted average fixed rate of the swaps was 3.3% 2017: 3.3%.
In addition, the group holds one 2017: one forward starting swap commencing when the B1 notes issued by Greene King Finance plc switch from fixed rate interest to floating rate in March 2020.
This swap will receive a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR and pay a fixed rate of 5.155%.
The interest rate swaps hedging the A1, A3, B1 and B2 tranches are held on the balance sheet as a fair value liability of 118.6m 2017: 140.2m.
Theinterest rate swap hedging the A5 tranche is held on the balance sheet as a fair value asset of 1.4m 2017: fair value liability of 6.4m.
The contract maturity dates range from September 2021 to March 2036.
Retrospective quantitative hedge effectiveness testing is performed and the bonds and related interest rate swaps have the same critical terms excluding credit risk.
Changes in cash flow hedge fair values are recognised in the hedging reserve to the extent that the hedges are effective.
The interest rate swaps have been assessed as highly effective during the period and are expected to remain highly effective over their remaining contract lives.
The ineffectiveness during the period, which is recognised within finance costs, amounted to nil 2017: 0.2m loss.
During the year a loss of 11.6m 2017: 11.8m was recycled from the hedging reserve to the income statement in respect of interest rate swap liabilities settled in prior periods.
The remaining losses in the hedging reserve in respect of these swaps, which had been designated cash flow hedges, will be recycled over the period over which the hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss.
Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting At 29 April 2018 the group held one 2017: three interest rate swap contract for a nominal value of 189.4m 2017: 349.7m.
This swap, which does not qualify for hedge accounting, is in respect of the A2 secured loan note issued by Spirit Issuer plc, receiving a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR and paying a fixed rate of 6.681%.
The fixed rate payable on the swap increases to 6.791% from September 2018.
In addition, the group holds two 2017: two forward starting swaps commencing when the A4 and A5 notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc switch from fixed rate interest to floating rate in December 2018 and December 2028, respectively.
The swaps will receive a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR and pay a fixed rate of 4.555%.
Upon the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company, the swaps were deemed ineffective hedges and therefore do not qualify for hedge accounting, with movements in their fair value being recognised in the income statement.
The interest rate swaps are held on the balance sheet as a fair value liability of 124.0m 2017: 198.1m.
The contract maturity dates range from March 2025 to December 2032.
Scheduled cash payments of 18.5m 2017: 21.0m made in respect of the swaps have been recognised in pre-exceptional finance costs net of amortisation of fair value on acquisition of 11.3m 2017: 13.9m.
These amounts are included within pre-exceptional profit as they can be deemed to be the market rate of the acquired swaps.
The remainder of the fair value movement amounting to a 19.2m gain 2017: 23.6m loss is recognised in exceptional finance costs as it is considered to be more volatile and its inclusion in pre-exceptional profit would hinder year-on-year comparability of performance.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 23 Financial instruments continued Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting continued In December 2017 the group terminated two interest rate swap contracts, resulting in a cash payment of 42.6m.
These swaps, which did not qualify for hedge accounting, were in respect of the A1, A3, A6 and A7 secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc which were fully repaid during the year as explained in note 22.
A gain amounting to 1.2m representing the difference between the termination payment and the fair value of the swaps on the termination date has been recognised in exceptional finance costs.
Where the nominal value of the derivative exceeds that of the related secured note for example, due to early repayment of floating rate notes the group will seek to eliminate the over-hedging where this is financially practicable.
At 29 April 2018, there are 2.9m 2017: 2.9m of interest rate swaps outstanding on cancelled floating rate notes which relate to the Spirit secured debt.
Fair values Set out in the table below is a comparison of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the groups financial instruments.
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced liquidation or sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: Cash and cash equivalents comprising cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits approximates to the carrying amount stated in the accounts.
Trade receivables approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Financial assets these are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method and fair value is deemed to be the same as this.
Overdrafts approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Long-term loans based on quoted market prices in the case of the securitised debt: approximates to the carrying amount in the case of the floating rate bank loans and other variable rate borrowings.
Interest rate swaps calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date and adjusting for, where appropriate, the groups and counterparty credit risk.
The changes in credit risk had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships.
Trade payables and accruals approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Finance lease obligations and off-market contract liabilities excludes off-market lease liabilities estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
Fair Carrying Fair Carrying value value value value Hierarchical 2018 2018 2017 2017 classification m m m m Financial liabilities Overdraft Level 2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Secured debt: Issued by Greene King Finance plc Level 1 1,423.7 1,343.5 1,478.0 1,392.5 Issued by Spirit Issuer plc Level 1 561.1 563.6 776.0 777.6 Floating rate bank loans Level 2 273.1 273.1 168.3 168.3 Liquidity facility loan Level 2 157.5 157.5 Interest rate swaps Level 2 242.6 242.6 344.8 344.8 Trade payables and accruals Level 2 308.1 308.1 334.8 334.8 Finance lease obligations Level 2 20.6 20.6 21.6 21.6 Off-market contract liabilities Level 2 21.1 21.1 Financial assets Cash Level 2 168.5 168.5 285.5 285.5 Trade receivables Level 2 69.9 69.9 73.9 73.9 Liquidity facility reserve Level 2 157.5 157.5 Interest rate swaps Level 2 1.5 1.5 Financial assets Level 3 23.7 23.7 26.4 26.4 Carrying values of the secured debt issued by Greene King Finance plc are stated net of any deferred finance fees which amounted to 10.2m 2017: 11.1m.
Carrying values of the secured debt issued by Spirit Issuer plc include premiums arising from fair value adjustments of 10.9m 2017: 7.9m.
Floating rate bank loan notes are stated net of deferred finance fees of 4.0m 2017: 1.7m.
118 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 Financial instruments continued Hierarchical classification of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value IFRS 13 requires that the classification of financial instruments at fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs used to derive fair value.
The classification uses the following three-level hierarchy: Level 1 unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
During the periods ending 29 April 2018 and 30 April 2017 there were no transfers between fair value levels 1, 2 or 3.
Capital risk management The group aims to maximise shareholder value by maintaining a strong credit rating and a core level of debt which optimises the weighted average cost of capital WACC and shareholder value.
A number of mechanisms are used to manage net debt and equity levels together referred to as capital as disclosed on the balance sheet, as appropriate in light of economic and trading conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes during the period.
The group monitors capital using several measures including fixed charge cover, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and free cash flow debt service coverage.
All covenants in relation to the securitisation vehicles and bank loans have been fully complied with.
The boards dividend policy is to target a dividend cover of around two times adjusted basic earnings per share.
24 Off-market contract liabilities and provisions Off-market Property Indirect tax Total liabilities leases provisions provisions m m m m At 1 May 2016 299.9 14.0 23.4 337.3 Unwinding of discount element of provisions 13.8 0.4 14.2 Provided for during the year 4.4 2.2 6.6 Released during the year 6.3 1.0 7.3 Utilised during the year 22.0 1.9 23.9 At 30 April 2017 285.4 15.9 25.6 326.9 Unwinding of discount element of provisions 12.5 0.5 13.0 Provided for during the year 19.2 0.6 19.8 Released during the year 17.0 5.9 1.5 24.4 Utilised during the year 34.4 1.8 36.2 At 29 April 2018 246.5 27.9 24.7 299.1 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 29 April 2018 30 April 2017 Off-market Property Indirect tax Off-market Property Indirect tax liabilities leases provisions Total liabilities leases provisions Total m m m m m m m m Current 17.9 4.8 24.7 47.4 21.3 1.3 25.6 48.2 Non-current 228.6 23.1 251.7 264.1 14.6 278.7 246.5 27.9 24.7 299.1 285.4 15.9 25.6 326.9 Off-market contract liabilities Off-market contract liabilities are recognised where contracts are at unfavourable terms relative to current market terms on acquisition.
For acquired leases where the current rentals are below market terms, an operating lease intangible asset has been recognised see note 13.
The liability unwinds against the rental expense so that the income statement charge reflects current market terms over an average period of 17 years 2017: 18 years.
During the year the group settled the financial guarantee provided by Ambac in respect of a number of Spirit secured bonds for a cash consideration of12.6m with a further 2.2m of consent and other fees paid note 5.
Property leases The provision for property leases has been set up to cover operating costs of vacant or loss-making premises as well as dilapidation requirements.
Payments are expected to be ongoing on these properties for an average of 14 years 2017: 15 years.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 24 Off-market contract liabilities and provisions continued Indirect tax provisions During a previous period the Spirit Pub Company group received VAT refunds of 17.9m from HMRC in respect of gaming machines following a ruling involving The Rank Group plc Rank that the application of VAT contravened the EUs principal of fiscal neutrality.
HMRC successfully appealed the decision in October 2013.
However, HMRC did not seek to recover the VAT of 17.9m and associated interest of 6.8m because it had accepted a guarantee that it would only repay this VAT if Ranks litigation is finally determined in HMRCs favour.
Ranks latest appeal was rejected by the Supreme Court in July 2015 and the group is currently awaiting the outcome of related litigation involving Rank and others.
In the prior year the group made a provision of 1.5m for stamp duty land tax SDLT that could have arisen as a consequence of settling an internal property arrangement implemented in 2012.
On 16 October 2017 HMRC agreed that no SDLT was payable so this provision has therefore been released in the year.
25 Share capital 2018 2017 Number Number of issued Share of issued Share shares capital shares capital m m m m Ordinary shares of 12.5p each called up, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year 309.9 38.7 309.2 38.6 Issue of share capital share options exercised 0.1 0.7 0.1 At end of year 310.0 38.7 309.9 38.7 Details of options granted and outstanding are included in note 8.
26 Reserves Share premium account Share premium represents the excess of proceeds received over the nominal value of new shares issued.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents capital contributions received and amounts recognised on the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company Limited being the difference between the value of the consideration and the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose from the purchase and cancellation of own share capital, and represents the nominal amount of the share capitalcancelled.
Hedging reserve Hedging reserve adjustments arise from the movement in fair value of the groups derivative instruments used as an effective hedge, in line with the accounting policy disclosed in note 1.
Amounts recycled to income are included within finance costs in the income statement.
Own shares Own shares relates to shares held in treasury, held by the employee benefit trust or purchased to fulfil awards made under the deferred share bonus scheme.
At 29 April 2018 nil shares 2017: nil were held in treasury, 0.1m shares 2017: 0.1m were held by the employee benefit trust and nil 2017: nil were held to fulfil awards under the deferred share bonus scheme.
The market value at 29 April 2018 of the treasury shares was nil 2017: nil, of the shares held by the employee benefit trust was 0.7m 2017: 0.2m and of the shares held for the deferred share bonus scheme was nil 2017: nil.
The employee benefit trust is independently managed and has purchased shares in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options and potential awards under the long-term incentive plan.
At the year end nil 2017: nil treasury shares and nil 2017: nil shares in the employee benefit trust were allocated to meet awards under the long-term incentive plan.
A transfer of 0.2m 2017: 1.6m from own shares to retained earnings has been made to reflect transfers to satisfy awards under the long-term incentive plan and options exercised under the executive share option plan and reflects the weighted average cost of own shares.
During the year nil 2017: nil shares were repurchased at a cost of nil 2017: nil to fulfil awards made under the deferred share bonus scheme with nil 2017: nil shares transferred to individuals to satisfy awards.
The employee benefit trust purchased 0.1m shares 2017: 0.2m at a cost of 0.5m 2017: 1.6m and 0.07m 2017: 0.74m shares were transferred to satisfy awards under the long-term incentive plan.
Goodwill The cumulative amount of goodwill written off to retained earnings in respect of acquisitions made prior to May 1998 amounts to 89.7m.
120 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 Working capital and non-cash movements 2018 2017 m m Increase in inventories 2.7 3.7 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 7.1 10.4 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 3.6 24.4 Decrease in off-market contract liabilities 19.6 22.0 Decrease in provisions 1.8 1.9 Share-based payment expense 1.3 2.7 Defined benefit pension contributions paid 3.6 3.9 Operating exceptional and non-underlying items 23.9 14.4 Working capital and other movements 46.8 29.2 28 Analysis of and movements in net debt As at Financing Changes in Other non-cash As at 30 April 2017 cash flows fair value changes 29 April 2018 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1 Cash at bank and in hand 285.5 117.0 168.5 Liquidity facility reserve 157.5 157.5 Cash and cash equivalents for balance sheet 443.0 274.5 168.5 Overdrafts Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow 443.0 274.5 168.5 Liabilities from financing activities Included in net debt: Finance leases 21.6 1.0 20.6 Liquidity facility loan 157.5 157.5 Unsecured bank loans floating rate Bank loans Facility A 168.3 80.0 0.5 88.8 Bank loans Facility B 183.8 0.5 184.3 Securitised borrowing 2,170.1 266.7 3.7 1,907.1 2,517.5 321.4 4.7 2,200.8 Not included in net debt: 2 Derivative financial instruments 344.8 42.6 59.9 1.2 241.1 Liabilities from financing activities 2,862.3 364.0 59.9 3.5 2,441.9 Net debt 2,074.5 46.9 4.7 2,032.3 1.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 29 Financial commitments The group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and items of plant and machinery.
The terms of the leases vary but typically oninception a property lease will be for a period of up to 30 years and plant and machinery will be for up to six years.
Most property leases have anupwardsonly rent review based on open market rents at the time of the review.
Future minimum cash rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2017 2018 restated m m Within one year 80.2 78.1 Between one and five years 309.5 312.6 After five years 1,437.4 1,509.0 1,827.1 1,899.7 2017 disclosure has been re-presented to correctly reflect future cash payments and to exclude the non-cash benefit of property provisions andoffmarket liabilities.
The group leases part of its licensed estate and other non-licensed properties to tenants.
The majority of lease agreements have terms of between six months and 25 years and are classified for accounting purposes as operating leases.
Most of the leases with terms of over three years include provision for rent reviews on either a three-year or five-year basis.
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Within one year 45.1 45.5 Between one and five years 122.9 131.5 After five years 119.5 124.5 287.5 301.5 Future minimum lease rentals include 6.1m 2017: 5.0m receivable in respect of non-cancellable subleases.
30 Related party transactions No transactions have been entered into with related parties during the year.
Greene King Finance plc and Spirit Issuer plc are structured entities set up to raise bond finance for the group, and as such are deemed to be related parties.
The results and financial position of the entities have been consolidated in the groups results.
Compensation of directors and other key management personnel of the group 2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits including National Insurance contributions 5.2 5.1 Post-employment pension and medical benefits 0.6 0.6 Share-based payments 0.1 0.1 5.9 5.8 Key management personnel Key management personnel are deemed to be those employees who are directors of Greene King plc or its subsidiaries.
Directors interests in an employee share-based payment plan Details of the options held by executive members of the board of directors are included in the remuneration report.
No options have been granted tothe nonexecutive members of the board of directors under this scheme.
31 Post balance sheet events Final dividend A final dividend of 24.4p per share 2017: 24.4p amounting to a dividend of 75.6m 2017: 75.6m was proposed by the directors at their meeting on27June 2018.
These financial statements do not reflect the dividend payable.
Borrowings and financial instruments On 7 June 2018 the group gave notice to repay 62.3m 30% of the outstanding Class A4 secured loan note issued by Spirit Issuer plc at 103.3% ofits par value on 28 June 2018, classified as noncurrent liabilities as at 29 April 2018.
The group has also agreed to make a payment of 7.4m on 28June 2018 to terminate 30% of the corresponding interest rate swap contract.
122 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018
