164 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2018 1 GENERAL INFORMATION GVC Holdings PLC the Company is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in the Isle of Man.
The address of its registered ofce and principal place of business is disclosed in the Directors report.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 5 March 2019.
The parent Company profit for the year was 19.0m 2017: loss of 47.7m.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash ow statement under paragraph 8 g of the disclosure exemptions from EU-adopted IFRS for qualifying entities included in Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The GVC Holdings PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 contain a consolidated statement of cash ows.
The Company is exempt under paragraph 8 k of the disclosure exemptions from EU-adopted IFRS included in FRS 101 for qualifying entities from disclosing related party transactions with entities that form part of the GVC Holdings PLC group of which GVC Holdings PLC is the ultimate parent undertaking.
The Companys financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is also the Companys functional currency, and all values are rounded to the nearest million m except when otherwise indicated.
The Companys financial statements are individual entity financial statements.
During the period the Company changed its function and presentational currency from Euro to GBP.
For further information on the re-presentation of the financial statements please refer to note 3 of the Group accounts.
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION These financial statements were prepared in accordance with FRS101 and Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention except for certain financial liabilities measured at fair value.
The accounting policies which follow in note 3 set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 and have been applied consistently to all years presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS101 in respect of a IFRS3 Business Combinations: b the requirements of IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: c IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement: d Share based payments: e Intra-Group-related party transactions: f Related party transactions.
Income statement For details of audit fees, see note 7 of the consolidated financial statements.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the income statement and the statement of comprehensive income of the parent Company have not been separately presented in these financial statements.
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Investments Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
The Company assesses these investments for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount is less than the value of the investment, the investment is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet consist of cash at banks and in hand, short-term deposits with an original maturity of less than three months.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them.
The Company classies financial assets at inception as either financial assets at fair value or loans and receivables.
On initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at fair value.
Financial assets at fair value comprise guarantees provided to the Company.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018
