164 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2018 1 GENERAL INFORMATION GVC Holdings PLC the Company is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in the Isle of Man.
The address of its registered ofce and principal place of business is disclosed in the Directors report.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 5 March 2019.
The parent Company profit for the year was 19.0m 2017: loss of 47.7m.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash ow statement under paragraph 8 g of the disclosure exemptions from EU-adopted IFRS for qualifying entities included in Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The GVC Holdings PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 contain a consolidated statement of cash ows.
The Company is exempt under paragraph 8 k of the disclosure exemptions from EU-adopted IFRS included in FRS 101 for qualifying entities from disclosing related party transactions with entities that form part of the GVC Holdings PLC group of which GVC Holdings PLC is the ultimate parent undertaking.
The Companys financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is also the Companys functional currency, and all values are rounded to the nearest million m except when otherwise indicated.
The Companys financial statements are individual entity financial statements.
During the period the Company changed its function and presentational currency from Euro to GBP.
For further information on the re-presentation of the financial statements please refer to note 3 of the Group accounts.
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION These financial statements were prepared in accordance with FRS101 and Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention except for certain financial liabilities measured at fair value.
The accounting policies which follow in note 3 set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 and have been applied consistently to all years presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS101 in respect of a IFRS3 Business Combinations: b the requirements of IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: c IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement: d Share based payments: e Intra-Group-related party transactions: f Related party transactions.
Income statement For details of audit fees, see note 7 of the consolidated financial statements.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the income statement and the statement of comprehensive income of the parent Company have not been separately presented in these financial statements.
3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Investments Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
The Company assesses these investments for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount is less than the value of the investment, the investment is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet consist of cash at banks and in hand, short-term deposits with an original maturity of less than three months.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them.
The Company classies financial assets at inception as either financial assets at fair value or loans and receivables.
On initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at fair value.
Financial assets at fair value comprise guarantees provided to the Company.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 165 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial assets continued Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
On initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, such assets are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest EIR method, less any allowance for impairment.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities comprise guarantees given to third parties and contingent consideration.
On initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured at fair value plus transaction costs where they are not categorised as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the income statement.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash ows from the assets has expired or when the Company has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash ows from the financial assets or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash ows in full without material delay to a third party, and either: substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred: or substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been retained nor transferred but control is not retained.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Current and deferred income tax The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in shareholders funds.
In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in shareholders funds, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company operates and generates taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: or arise from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply then the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which they can be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Foreign currency translation The presentation and functional currency of the Company is Pounds Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in Pounds Sterling at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into Pounds Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date the closing rate.
Foreign currency translation All foreign currency translation differences are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a post-tax hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value was determined.
Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
