131 15 IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL AND INDEFINITE LIFE INTANGIBLE ASSETS An impairment loss is recognised for any amount by which an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash ows cash-generating units.
Within UK and European Retail, the cash-generating units CGUs are generally an individual Licensed Betting Operator LBO and therefore, impairment is first assessed at this level for licences intangibles and property, plant and equipment, with any impairment arising booked first to licences and then to property, plant and equipment.
Since goodwill and brand names has not been historically allocated to individual LBOs, a secondary assessment is then made to compare the carrying value of the segment against the recoverable amount with any additional impairment then taken against goodwill.
For Online the CGU is the relevant geographical location or business unit and any impairments are made rstly to goodwill, next to any capitalised intangible asset and then nally to property, plant and equipment.
The expected cash ows generated by the assets are discounted using appropriate discount rates that reect the time value of money and risks associated with the group of assets.
For both tangible and intangible assets, the future cash ows are based on the forecasts and budgets of the cash-generating unit or business discounted to reect time value of money.
The key assumptions within the UK and European Retail budgets are OTC stakes customer visits and spend per visit, the average number of machines per shop, gross win per shop per week, wage increases, the potential impact of the stakes restriction on Fixed Odds Betting Terminals FOBT resulting from the review by the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport DCMS and the xed costs of the LBOs.
The key assumptions within the budgets for Online are the number of active customers, net revenue per head, win percentage, revenue shares and operating costs.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash-ow projections for UK Retail was 9.5% 2017: n a, European Retail 9.0%-1.1% 2017: n a and Online 8.9%11.3% 2017: 7.4%9.4%.
The discount rate calculation is based on the specic circumstances with reference to the WACC and risk factors expected in the industry in which the Group operates.
The value-in-use calculations use cash ows based on detailed, board approved, financial budgets prepared by management covering a threeyear period.
These forecasts have been extrapolated over years 4 to 8 representing a declining growth curve from year 3 until the long-term forecast growth rate is reached.
The growth rates used from years 4-8 range from 0% to 16%.
From year 9 onwards long-term growth rates used are between 0% and 3.0% 2017: 2% and are based on the long-term GDP growth rate of the countries in which the relevant CGUs operate or the relevant outlook for the business.
A 0% growth rate has been used for the UK Retail operating segment due to the ongoing uncertainty surrounding the outlook after the triennial implementation.
An 8-year horizon is considered appropriate based on the Groups history of profit as well as the growth rates currently observed in our key markets.
In assessing the carrying value of goodwill for all CGUs, the recoverable amount was assessed with reference to the discounted cash ows discussed above and the fair value obtained from the sale of the Group to GVC Holdings PLC.
The carrying value of goodwill by segment is as follows: 2018 2017 Goodwill m m Online 3,061.2 972.4 UK Retail 76.4 European Retail 163.4 All other segments 31.4 3,332.4 972.4 It is not practical or material to disclose the carrying value of individual licences by LBO.
Impairment recognised during the year Impairments of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are recognised as a separately disclosed item.
During the year the Group has recognised an impairment charge against UK Retail of 40.1m 2017: nil, of which 4.5m has been recorded against licenses 2017: nil and 35.6m against plant, property and equipment 2017: nil.
The impairment charge recognised in UK Retail in the current year is a consequence of the timing of implementation of stakes restrictions on FOBT machines in LBOs to 2 being brought forward to 1 April 2019 from 1 October 2019.
Sensitivity analysis A 2% decline in the long-term growth rate applied to the UK Retail cash ows with other assumptions remaining constant would result in an additional impairment of 3.7m to shop assets.
A 5% decrease in all cash ows used in the discounted cash ow model for the value in use calculation with other assumptions remaining constant would result in an additional impairment of 26.1m within Online and UK Retail.
A 0.5% increase in discount rates used in the discounted cash ow model for the value in use calculation with all other assumptions remaining constant would result in an additional impairment of 93.9m within Online and UK Retail.
No other reasonable change in assumptions to the CGUs would cause any additional impairment.
