116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2018 for the Ladbrokes Coral Group acquisition were provisional.
4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Further details of the assessment can be found in note 31.
4.1 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial The fair value of contingent consideration recognised in business statements of the Group at 31 December each year.
The underlying combinations is reassessed at each reporting date, using updated financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting inputs and assumptions based on the latest financial forecasts for the year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Judgement is applied as to whether changes should is achieved where the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable be applied at the acquisition date or as post-acquisition changes.
returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability Further details of these judgements are given in note 31.
Fair value to affect these returns through its power over the investee.
movements and the unwinding of the discounting is recognised within operating expenses.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Accounting for uncertain tax positions Subsidiaries are consolidated, using the acquisition method of The Group is subject to various forms of tax in a number of accounting, from the date on which control is transferred to the Group jurisdictions.
Given the nature of the industry within which the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is operates, the tax and regulatory regimes are continuously changing transferred from the Group.
and, as such, the Group is exposed to a small number of uncertain tax positions.
Provisions are made for uncertain tax positions where On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities it is believed that it is more likely than not that an economic outow of a subsidiary are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the separately identiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
During the current year, the Group made a provision for a potential Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements liability in Greece see note 23 based on the Directors best estimate of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those of the likely economic outow.
However, as the statutory window in used by the Group.
Greece for the authorities to conclude their tax audit work is generally six years from the end of the relevant tax year, both the timing and 4.2 Critical accounting estimates and judgements the conclusions of the tax audits, and any associated tax payments, The preparation of financial information requires the use of remains uncertain.
assumptions, estimates and judgements about future conditions.
Use of available information and application of judgement are inherent Separately disclosed items in the formation of estimates.
Actual results in the future may differ To assist in understanding its underlying performance, the Group from those reported.
In this regard, management believes that the has dened the following items of pre-tax income and expense as accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those separately disclosed as they either reect items which are exceptional that relate to: in nature or size or are associated with the amortisation of acquired accounting for business combinations: intangibles.
Items treated as separately disclosed include: profits or losses on disposal, closure or impairment of non-current accounting for uncertain tax positions: assets or businesses: separately disclosed items: amortisation of acquired intangibles resulting from IFRS3 Business the measurement and impairment of goodwill and other assets: and Combinations fair value exercises pension and other post-employment benefit obligations.
corporate transaction and restructuring costs: The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing changes in the fair value of contingent consideration: and basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised.
the related tax effect of these items.
Any other non-recurring items are considered individually for Further information about key assumptions concerning the future classication as separately disclosed or exceptional by virtue of their and other key sources of estimation uncertainty are set out below.
Business combinations The separate disclosure of these items allows a clearer understanding For business combinations, the Group estimates the fair value of of the trading performance on a consistent and comparable basis, the consideration transferred, which can include assumptions about together with an understanding of the effect of non-recurring or large the future business performance of the business acquired and an individual transactions upon the overall profitability of the Group.
appropriate discount rate to determine the fair value of any contingent consideration.
Judgement is also applied in determining whether any The separately disclosed items have been included within the future payments should be classied as contingent consideration appropriate classications in the consolidated income statement.
or as remuneration for future services.
Further details are given in note 6.
The Group then estimates the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the business combination, including any separately identiable intangible assets.
These estimates also require inputs and assumptions including future earnings, customer attrition rates and discount rates.
The Group engages external experts to support the valuation process, where appropriate.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations allows the Group to recognise provisional fair values if the initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete.
During the year the reported fair values the Group has recognised GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 117 Within UK and European Retail the cash-generating units are generally 4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED an individual Licensed Betting Operator LBO and therefore, 4.2 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued impairment is first assessed at this level for licences and property, plant Goodwill and equipment, with any impairment arising booked first to licences Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of and then to property, plant and equipment.
the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the separately identiable assets, liabilities and contingent Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations liabilities at the date of acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS3 Business There is a significant degree of estimation involved in predicting the Combinations, goodwill is not amortised but reviewed for impairment at ultimate benets payable under dened benefit pension arrangements.
the first reporting period after acquisition and then annually thereafter.
The pension scheme liabilities are determined using actuarial valuations.
As such it is stated at cost less any provision for impairment of value.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount Any impairment is recognised immediately in the consolidated income rates, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the longstatement and is not subsequently reversed.
term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
The Groups dened benefit pension schemes both have On acquisition, any goodwill acquired is allocated to cash-generating a net asset position when measured on an IAS 19 basis.
Judgement is units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Where goodwill forms part applied, based on legal, actuarial, and accounting guidance in IFRIC of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is 14, regarding the amounts of net pension asset that is recognised in disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposal is included in the consolidated balance sheet.
Further details are given in note 29. the carrying amount of the assets when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
4.3 Other accounting policies Investments in joint ventures Intangible assets A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a longIntangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised separately or more other ventures under a contractual agreement.
from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
The costs relating to internally generated intangible assets, Joint control exists only when decisions about the relevant activities principally software costs, are capitalised if the criteria for recognition require the unanimous consent of the parties that collectively control the as assets are met.
Other expenditure is charged in the year in which arrangement.
In assessing this joint control no significant judgements the expenditure is incurred.
Following initial recognition, intangible have been necessary.
assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the Group anyaccumulated impairment losses.
consolidated income statement using the equity method of accounting.
The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be either Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Group consolidated nite or indefinite.
All indefinite lived assets are subject to an annual balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share impairment review from the year of acquisition.
Where amortisation of net assets of the entity less any impairment in value.
The carrying is charged on assets with nite lives, this expense is taken to the value of investments in joint ventures includes acquired goodwill.
consolidated income statement through the operating expenses, depreciation and amortisation line item.
Useful lives are reviewed If the Groups share of losses in the joint venture equals or exceeds its on an annual basis.
investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments A summary of the policies applied to the Groups intangible assets on behalf of the joint venture.
Further details are given in note 17. isas follows: Investments in associates Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term Retail licences Lower of 15 years, or duration of licence interest and is able to exercise significant inuence over the financial Software 2-15 years and operational policies but does not have control or joint control over those policies.
Capitalised development 3-5 years expenditure The Groups share of results of associates is included in the Groups consolidated income statement using the equity method of accounting.
Trademarks and brand names 10-15 years, or indefinite life Investments in associates are carried in the Groups consolidated Customer relationships 3-15 years balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment in value.
The carrying Impairment value of investments in associates includes acquired goodwill.
An impairment review is performed for indefinite life assets on at least If the Groups share of losses in the associate equals or exceed its an annual basis.
For all other non-current assets an impairment review investments in the associate, the Group does not recognise further is performed where there are indicators of impairment.
This requires an losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments estimation of the recoverable amount which is the higher of an assets on behalf of the associate.
Further details are given in note 18. fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Estimating a value in use The useful lives of all intangible assets are reviewed at each financial amount requires management to make an estimate of the expected period end.
Impairment testing is performed annually for intangible future cash ows from each cash-generating unit and to discount cash assets which are not subject to systematic amortisation and where ows by a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value an indicator of impairment exists for all other intangible assets.
Estimating an assets fair value less costs to sell is determined using future cash ow and profit projections as well as An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, with any gain or loss industry observed multiples and publicly observed share prices for arising calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds similar gambling companies.
and the carrying amount of the item included in the consolidated income statement in the year of disposal.
118 F FI INAN NANC CI IAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NTS TS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2018 4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, 4.3 Other accounting policies continued short-term deposits with an original maturity of less than three months Property, plant and equipment and customer balances.
Land is stated at cost less any impairment in value.
Financial assets Buildings, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party depreciation and any impairment in value.
to the contracts that give rise to them.
Depreciation is applied using the straight line method to specic The Group classies financial assets at inception as financial assets classes of asset to reduce them to their residual value over their at amortised cost, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss estimated useful economic lives.
or financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income.
Land and buildings Lower of 50 years, or estimated useful life Financial assets at amortised cost are non-derivative financial assets of the building, or lease.
indefinite lives are with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active attached to any freehold land held and market.
On initial recognition, financial assets at amortised cost are therefore it is not depreciated measured at fair value net of transaction costs.
Property, plant and equipment 3-5 years Trade receivables are generally accounted for at amortised cost.
Expected credit losses are recognised for financial assets recorded Fixtures and ttings 3-10 years at amortised cost, including trade receivables.
Expected credit losses are calculated by using an appropriate probability of default, taking The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for accounts of a range of possible future scenarios and applying this impairment where an indicator of impairment exists as to whether to the estimated exposure of the Group at the point of default.
there are events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include derivative and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable financial instruments.
Financial assets through profit or loss are amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their measured initially at fair value with transaction costs taken directly to recoverable amount.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated The recoverable amount of plant and equipment is the greater of fair income statement.
value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments comprise equity investments that are neither designated as such of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
These investments are measured initially at fair value.
asset that does not generate largely independent cash inows, the Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses are recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated Financial liabilities comprise trade and other payables, interest bearing income statement.
loans and borrowings, contingent consideration, ante-post bets, An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon guarantees and derivative financial instruments.
On initial recognition, disposal, with any gain or loss arising calculated as the difference financial liabilities are measured at fair value net of transaction costs between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the where they are not categorised as financial liabilities at fair value item included in the consolidated income statement in the year through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or of disposal.
loss include contingent consideration, derivative financial instruments, ante-post bets and guarantees.
Leases Trade and other payables are held at amortised cost and include Leases that transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards amounts due to clients representing customer deposits and winnings, associated with ownership of the leased item are capitalised at the which is matched by an equal and opposite amount within cash and inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, cash equivalents.
at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly consolidated income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are against income.
remeasured and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
All interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial Leases which are not capitalised are classied as operating leases.
recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently Operating lease payments, other than contingent rentals, are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement onastraight line basis over the lease term.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 119 All foreign currency translation differences are taken to the 4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are 4.3 Other accounting policies continued measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using Financial liabilities continued the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary The Group has provided financial guarantees to third parties in respect items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using of lease obligations of certain of the Groups former subsidiaries the exchange rate at the date when the fair value was determined.
within the disposed hotels division.
Financial guarantee contracts are classied as financial liabilities and are measured at fair value by Other than Sterling the main functional currencies of subsidiaries estimating the probability of the guarantees being called upon are the Euro and the Australian Dollar $.
At the reporting date, and the related cash outows from the Group.
the assets and liabilities of non-sterling subsidiaries are translated into Pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities sheet date and their income statements are translated at the average Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash exchange rates for the year.
The post-tax exchange differences arising ows from the assets has expired or when the Group has transferred on the retranslation are taken directly to other comprehensive income.
its contractual right to receive the cash ows from the financial assets or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash ows in full On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative retranslation without material delay to a third party, and either: differences previously recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign entity are recognised in the consolidated income statement substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
transferred: or The following exchange rates were used in 2017 and 2018: substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been retained nor transferred but control is not retained.
2018 2017 Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is discharged, Currency Average Year end Average Year end cancelled or expires.
Euro 1.130 1.113 1.135 1.125 Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as cross Australian Dollar $ 1.781 1.810 n a n a currency swaps, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate swaps, to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency Income tax uctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences at the balance andsubsequently at fair value.
The gains or losses on remeasurement sheet date, between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their are taken to the consolidated income statement.
carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are classied as assets where their Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary fair value is positive, or as liabilities where their fair value is negative.
differences except Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are on the initial recognition of goodwill: only offset if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists and the parties intend to settle the cash ows where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of onanet basis.
an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting Provisions profit nor the tax profit: and Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and outow of resources embodying economic benets will be required to associates, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary of the obligation.
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date differences and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time available against which the deductible temporary differences and carry value of money and the risks specic to the liability.
The unwinding of forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised: the discount is recognised as a finance expense.
except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible Foreign currency translation temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset The presentational currency of GVC Holdings PLC and the functional or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, currencies of its UK subsidiaries are Pounds Sterling.
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in Pounds Sterling at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies investments in subsidiaries and associates, deferred tax assets are are retranslated at the foreign currency rate of exchange ruling only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the deductible at the balance sheet date.
temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2018 The Groups contributions to dened contribution schemes are 4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to which 4.3 Other accounting policies continued the contributions relate.
Income tax continued The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Equity instruments balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part value of proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Dividends Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Revenue Interest or penalties payable and receivable in relation to income tax The Group reports the gains and losses on all betting and gaming are recognised as an income tax expense or credit in the consolidated activities as revenue, which is measured at the fair value of the income statement.
consideration received or receivable from customers less free bets, promotions, bonuses and other fair value adjustments.
Gross win Income tax expenses are recognised within profit and loss except to includes free bets, promotions and bonuses net of VAT GST.
the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other For licensed betting ofces LBOs, on course betting, Core comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Telephone Betting, mobile betting, Digital businesses including sportsbook, betting exchange, casino, games, other number bets, Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount revenue represents gains and losses, being the amounts staked and of sales tax except: fees received, less total payouts recognised on the settlement of where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services the event.
Open betting positions are carried at fair value and gains is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales and losses arising on these positions are recognised in revenue.
tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset Vending income is also included within Revenue.
or as part of the expense item as applicable: and Revenue from the online poker business reects the net income rake receivables and payables are stated with the amount earned from poker games completed by the year end.
In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income arising The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the year, including sales the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables of refreshments, net of VAT.
Finance expense and income Pensions and other post-employment benets Finance expense and income arising on interest bearing financial The Groups dened benefit pension plans, the Ladbrokes Pension instruments carried at amortised cost are recognised in the Plan and the Gala Coral Pension Plan hold assets separately from consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate the Group.
The pension cost relating to this plan is assessed in method.
Finance expense includes the amortisation of fees that are accordance with the advice of independent qualied actuaries using an integral part of the effective finance cost of a financial instrument, the projected unit credit method.
including issue costs, and the amortisation of any other differences between the amount initially recognised and the redemption price.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the consolidated statement All finance expenses are recognised over the availability period.
of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Share based payment transactions Any past service cost is recognised immediately.
The retirement benefit Certain employees including Directors of the Group receive asset recognised in the balance sheet represents the fair value of remuneration in the form of equity settled share based payment scheme assets less the value of the dened benefit obligations.
transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange In accounting for the Groups dened benefit pension plans, it is for shares or rights over shares equity settled transactions.
necessary for management to make a number of estimates and The cost of equity settled transactions is measured by reference to the assumptions each year.
These include the discount rates, ination fair value at the date on which they are granted.
Further details of which rates and life expectancy.
In making these estimates and assumptions, are given in note 30.
In valuing equity settled transactions, no account management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked actuaries.
Where actual experience differs to these estimates, actuarial to the price of the shares of GVC Holdings PLC market conditions.
gains and losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Refer to note 29 for details of the values of assets and The cost of equity settled transactions is recognised in the consolidated obligations and key assumptions used.
income statement, with a corresponding credit in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fullled, ending on the date on Although the Group anticipates that plan surpluses will be utilised which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting during the life of the plans to address member benets, the Group date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity settled transactions recognises its pension surplus in full on the basis that it does not at each reporting date until the vesting date reects the extent to which consider there to be substantive restrictions on the return of residual the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the plan assets in the event of a winding up of the plans after all member opinion of the Directors of the Group at that date, based onthe best obligations have been met.
available estimate of the number of equity instruments, willultimately vest.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018
