152 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2018 32 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED Contingent liabilities Guarantees have been given in the ordinary course of business in respect of loans and derivative contracts granted to subsidiaries amounting to 503.3m 2017: nil.
Bank guarantees have been issued on behalf of subsidiaries with a value of 51.3m 2017: nil and the joint venture with a value of 13.9m 2017: nil.
The Group has given guarantees to third parties in respect of lease liabilities of former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
See note 25 for full disclosure.
In January 2018, the Group announced that it had received a tax audit assessment for 186.8m from the Greek Audit Centre for Large Enterprises in respect of 2010 and 2011.
In the Directors opinion, the assessment contained material errors, a view supported by expert tax advice, and was out of all proportion to the size of the Groups Greek business at the time.
An appeal has been led with the Administrative Court of Appeal in Athens and we expect our legal case regarding the 2010 11 tax years to be heard in the current year.
The Directors remain highly confident that the Appeal Court will also nd that the assessment is out of all proportion to the size of the Groups Greek business at the time.
In order to enable the Groups subsidiary to trade normally whilst the appeal process takes place, the Group has entered into a payment scheme with the Greek tax authority whereby payments are held on account.
The Group continues to pay the monthly instalments for the 2010 and 2011 assessment, and as at 31 December 2018, had paid 87.5m under this scheme.
Of this amount, 41.4m has been recorded as a receivable on the balance sheet and the remainder expensed through the income statement see below.
In the event of a successful appeal, recovery of the debtor will be through either a repayment or an ability to offset other tax liabilities.
During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Group made progress in understanding the Greek tax authorities position on potential tax for years subsequent to 2011, through the ongoing tax audit work in respect of these years.
The Greek tax authorities have requested, and the Group has provided, a significant amount of information.
The nature of these enquiries from the tax authorities, refreshed external tax advice received by the Group, and our observations of the experience of other operators, have helped the Group understand better the approach being taken by the Greek tax authorities in relation to these years.
As a result, the Group has recognised a charge of 186.8m, representing the Groups best estimate of the liability for all years from 2010 to 2017.
To date 20.3m has been paid by the Group in relation to years subsequent to 2011.
The statutory window in Greece for the tax authorities to conclude their audit work is generally six years from the end of the relevant tax year.
As such, both the timing and the conclusions of the tax audits for 2012 to 2017, and any associated tax payments, remains uncertain.
33 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES Other than its associates and joint venture, the related parties of the Group are the Executive Directors, Non-executive Directors and members ofthe Executive Committee of the Group.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture and other related parties are disclosed below.
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2018 2017 m m Equity investment 1 Joint venture 44.4 2 Associates 20.2 Loans Movement in loan balance with joint venture partner 1.8 Dividends received 3 Associates 9.4 Sundry expenditure 4 Associates 79.6 2.1 1.
Equity investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas S. A and MGM GVC Interactive LLC.
Equity investment in Asia Gaming Technologies Limited, Satellite Information services Holdings Limited and bwin eK Neugsdorf.
3. Dividend received from Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
Payments in the normal course of business made to Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited and bwin eK Neugsdorf.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018
