137 24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups treasury function provides a centralised service for the provision of finance and the management and control of liquidity, foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The function operates as a cost centre and manages the Groups treasury exposures to reduce risk in accordance with policies approved by the Board.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, overdrafts, loan notes, bonds, financial guarantee contracts, and cash and short-term deposits, together with certain derivative financial instruments.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables, trade payables and accruals that arise directly from its operations.
Details of derivatives are set out in note 25.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken other than betting and gaming transactions and for the purposes of currency trading as part of the newly acquired Intertrader business.
Activity of this nature is only undertaken by the customer and is not speculative activity of the Group.
The Groups exposure to ante-post betting and gaming transactions is not significant.
The main financial risks for the Group are exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
The Group also monitors the market price risk arising from all financial instruments.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on certain of its interest bearing loans and borrowings and on cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups policy for the year ended 31 December 2018 was to maintain a minimum of 20.0% 2017: n a of total borrowings at xed interest rates to reduce its sensitivity to movements in variable short-term interest rates.
At 31 December 2018, 500.0m or 22.5% of the Groups borrowings were at xed rates.
Interest on financial instruments at oating rates is repriced at intervals of less than six months.
Interest on financial instruments at xed rates is xed until the maturity of the instrument.
The table below demonstrated the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in interest rates on income for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of financial liabilities: profit before tax Effect on: 2018 2017 25 basis points increase 4.8 0.7 Foreign currency risk Given the multi-national nature of the business, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange gains and losses on its trading activities, the net assets of its overseas subsidiaries and its non-GBP denominated nancing facilities.
The primary currencies that the Group is exposed to uctuations in are the Euro, Australian Dollar and US Dollar.
Whilst the Group does not actively hedge the foreign exposure on its trading cashows, it continuously monitors exposures to individual currencies, taking remediating actions as necessary to manage any significant risks as they arise.
In the event that the Group anticipates large transactions in currencies other than GBP, then forward exchange contracts are taken out to manage the potential foreign exchange exposure.
The Groups exposure to the translation of net assets on foreign currency subsidiaries into its reporting currency are largely offset by the opposite exposure on the Groups nancing facilities providing a natural economic hedge, even though the Group does not apply hedge accounting.
The Groups policy on borrowings is broadly aligned to the underlying cashows of the business.
The Group has nancing facilities in GBP, Euro and US Dollars.
As the Groups overseas subsidiaries largely report in Euros, the Group has taken out a swap contract to hedge the US Dollar debt into GBP and Euros in order to align the foreign currency exposure on the Groups nancing facilities with that on the net assets of its subsidiaries.
A 5% weakening in the Euro would reduce Group operating profit by 13.5m and net assets by 24.0m.
138 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2018 24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread across a large number of counterparties and customers.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Any changes to credit terms are assessed and authorised by senior management on an individual basis.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and a loan to a joint venture, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Credit risk in respect of cash and cash equivalents is managed by restricting those transactions to banks that have a dened minimum credit rating and by setting an exposure ceiling per bank.
The Group also has exposure to credit risk arising from the financial guarantee contracts provided by the Group.
This risk is partly mitigated by the indemnity received from Hilton Hotels Corporation for any loss incurred in connection with these guarantees.
For further detail of these guarantees refer to note 25.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and exibility through the use of borrowings with a range of maturities.
The Groups policy on liquidity is to ensure that there are sufficient medium-term and long-term committed borrowing facilities to meet the medium-term funding requirements.
At 31 December 2018, there were undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 495.0m 2017: 62.2m.
Total committed facilities had an average maturity of 5.0 years 2017: 2.9 years.
The total gross contractual undiscounted cashows of financial liabilities, including interest payments, fall due as follows.
Cashows in respect ofnancial guarantee contracts reect the probability weighted cashows.
On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2018 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 84.2 181.9 950.1 1,441.4 2,657.6 Other financial liabilities 24.2 161.2 0.6 1.4 187.4 Trade and other payables 638.3 638.3 Total 746.7 343.1 950.7 1,442.8 3,483.3 On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2017 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 7.0 14.7 14.7 267.8 304.2 Other financial liabilities 11.5 13.0 16.2 40.7 Trade and other payables 164.7 164.7 Total 183.2 27.7 30.9 267.8 509.6 Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a credit quality that enables the Group to raise funds at an economic interest rate and to maintain healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, adjust borrowings, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group monitors capital using a net debt to proforma EBITDA ratio before separately disclosed items.
The ratio at 31 December 2018 was 2.5 times.
The Groups funding policy is to raise funds centrally to meet the Groups anticipated requirements.
These are planned so as to mature at different stages in order to reduce renancing risk.
The Board reviews the Groups capital structure and liquidity periodically.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018
