TOP STORIES OF 2018 13 2018 WAS A STRONG YEAR WITH OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE.
Lee Feldman Non-executive Chairman Winning market share 14 US opportunities 16 Safer gambling 18 Retail t for the future 20 Integration on target 22 TOP STORIES OF 2018 14 TOP STORIES OF 2018 CONTINUED THE ENLARGED GVC GROUP NOW OPERATES 19 LEADING BRANDS GLOBAL BRANDS WINNING IN MULTIPLE COUNTRIES ACROSS THE WORLD.
MARKET SHARE All of our major brands are well established in the regions in which they operate and enjoy high levels of consumer awareness helped by a loyal customer base and innovative marketing.
Operating a portfolio of leading brands provides the Group with a number ofoperational advantages: Well established brands act as barriers to entry Operating multiple brands in one market provides an opportunity for customers 11% tomove between our brands NGR GROWTH Many of our brands have a distinctive offer and appeal, specically tailored Gala Bingo: is the second tolocal market largest player in the online bingo market in the UK.
Omni-channel sports brands Eurobet, Customers can participate in Ladbrokes, Coral drive faster online scheduled bingo sessions or play slots games and roulette growth through cost effective online including live roulette.
sign-ups in shop The Group has a proven track record of innovative marketing helping drive market-leading performance and revitalising underperforming brands.
The Group posted a strong 2018 performance in all its major territories, outperforming the market and growing market share.
This strong growth is drive en n by the effectiveness of the GVC online operating model, which leverages the Groups leading proprietary technology and product development capability, applying central marketing expertise alongside local operational execution.
Combined with the benets of scale and geographic diversication, along with the e opportunities provided by the integration n of the Ladbrokes Coral business and our r sports-betting joint-venture in the US with h MGM Resorts, the Group is well placed to continue to outperform the market and d make further market share gains.
12% NGR GROWTH Ladbrokes: an established force on the UK high street for over 50 years and with a growing online and multi-channel presence, the Ladbrokes brand is one of the most recognised in the UK.
Read more about the industry in which we operate on pages 24 to 25.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 15 Market share growth Proforma Market NGR position growth UK 4 Ladbrokes 12% Coral 16% Gala Bingo 11% GERMANY 1 bwin 23% AUSTRALIA 3 Ladbrokes 17% ITALY 3 Eurobet 17% bwin Gioco Digitale 23% Eurobet 11% NGR GROWTH BRAZIL 1 Sportingbet Betboo 33% bwin: one of Europes leading online betting brands and is PARTYPOKER 2 synonymous with sports.
It has leading positions in partypoker 42% several markets including Germany, Belgium, France, FY2018 to FY2017 on a constant currency basis.
61% NGR GROWTH CrystalBet: launched in 2011, is fully licensed by, and operates in, the Republic of Georgia, where it has a 24% share of the market.
It offers sports betting, poker and a range of casino games.
Full House partypoker continued its renaissance in 2018, delivering a 42% growth in NGR on a constant currency basis.
The brands resurgence came on the back of a series of improvements to its product offer and the continued success of partypokerLIVE, which has grown into the worlds largest poker tour, guaranteeing over $70,000,000 in prize pools for the 2018 2019 season.
In November 2018, partypoker was named Poker Operator of the Year, for the second year running at the prestigious EGR annual industry awards.
16 TOP STORIES OF 2018 CONTINUED 14 May 2018 signalled the beginning of a US Sports bet-in-play: TO BE ABLE TO TEAM UP WITH new era in the sports-betting in the US with Bet-in-play has been one of the main drivers the repeal of the Professional and Amateur of growth in European online markets over A PARTNER OF MGMS PEDIGREE Sports Protection Act PASPA by the US the last five years, with around 70% of football Supreme Court.
Prior to the repeal only limited bets now being placed in-play.
The structure AND KNOWLEDGE IN THE US, IS sports-betting opportunities existed in the US, of American football, Baseball, Basketball primarily in Nevada.
Post the repeal of PASPA, and Ice Hockey, all high scoring, played over A REAL OPPORTUNITY FOR GVC.
all states are now able to legislate andregulate long periods and with multiple breaks in both land-based and online sports-betting.
play make these sports ideal for customers Several states, including New Jersey, to utilise bet-in-play opportunities, adding Pennsylvania and Mississippi have already to thepotential growth in size of the US launched online and retail sports betting and sports-betting market.
estimates for the potential size of the overall US market range from 5bn to 20bn in all cases making it what would be the largest regulated sports-betting market in the world.
JOINT playMGM Sitting on GVCs proprietary, end-to-end, retail and digital technology platform, playMGM is the joint ventures primary sports and igaming brand.
The joint venture, named Roar, has access to MGMs 31 million-member M life database, and Roars players will have access to exciting rewards at MGM casinos, hotels, restaurants and events.
Leveraging these assets, as well as strategic market access partnerships, Roar aims to be the number one sports-betting and online gaming provider in the US.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 17 The MGM brand is recognised world-wide as The focus of the joint-venture in 2019 Joint venture with MGM Resorts: one of the leading leisure and entertainment is to put the building blocks in place 30 July 2018, GVC announced a joint-venture brands, and combined with GVCs for a successful long-term operation.
with MGM Resorts to provide sports-betting technology and sports-betting know-how, Adam Greenblatt previously Director of services in the US.
GVC will provide its the joint-venture is very well placed to take Strategy and M&A at GVC was appointed expertise in running both online and retail market share.
The Joint venture sports-betting, including trading, will be located in New Jersey, and the new Whilst the opportunity is significant, we expect risk management, online marketing and ofces were opened in 2019.
A key milestone it to take between 3-5 years before the sportscustomer acquisition and retention.
will be the launch of the playMGM online betting market is fully up-and-running across The joint-venture will also use the GVC offering on the GVC technology platform.
the majority of states, with that timescale technology platform, leveraging the highly being largely determined by the rate at which scalable and cost-efficient platform.
2019 could see several large MGM will provide licences to operate in each states, including New York, legislate with the of the states in which it is located, and in other majority of others expected in 2020 and 2021. states through deals with other third party land-based casinos.
MGM will also provide its brand playMGM as the primary brand Read more about changes to our regulatory for the joint-venture.
FAVOURITES 18 TOP STORIES OF 2018 CONTINUED WE ARE COMMITTED TO BEING LEADERS IN SAFER BETTING AND GAMING PRACTICES.
MAINTAINING A REPUTATION FOR CHANGING FAIRNESS AND INTEGRITY AND STRENGTHENING OUR CUSTOMER FOCUS ARE ALL VITAL TO GROWING OUR BUSINESS.
FOR THE That is why in February 2019 we launched our new global safer gambling strategy, that we call Changing for the Bettor.
The guiding principle of the strategy is to further establish GVC as the most trusted and enjoyable betting operator in the world.
The campaign comprises of seven pillars, each of which have substantive BETTOR projects attached: 1.
Understanding Educating our Promoting the problem and key stakeholders responsible best solutions attitudes Including the national roll Including a five-year, out of youth education Leading the industry in multi-million pound research programmes with the charity recently agreeing a ban project with the Division on GamCare in the UK the onpre-watershed gambling Addiction, Cambridge Health largest project of its kind in adverts on television, around Alliance, a Harvard Medical the UK, as well as a statelive sports.
School teaching hospital school awareness campaign further details below.
Empowering Funding treatment Championing customers for those in need responsible product design Rolling out the Senet markers Doubling our donation to of harm algorithm to all UK research, education and Developing more responsible facing parts of the business.
treatment on problem product design principles.
gambling to 0.2% of gross gaming revenue GGR.
Drive cultural change within our business Ensuring that a safer gambling approach underpins all aspects of our business.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 19 Fundamental to GVCs commitment to better understand and reduce the potential for problem gambling behaviour to develop will be investment in rigorous research.
Accordingly, the Group will be investing $5m into a new partnership with Harvard Medical Schools Division on Addiction over the next five years.
GVC will provide Harvard faculty at the Division with access to anonymised player data across a range of its brands, sports-betting, and gaming products.
The research will be broad ranging, focusing on a number of areas including, but not limited to: Patterns of normal internet gambling behaviour Behavioural markers of gambling problems among internet players generally and on specic betting andgame types Cross-product analyses Cross-brand analyses The effects of the expansion of gambling in new markets Within this approach, researchers will seek to evaluate the effectiveness of algorithms used by GVC and other operators to detect at-risk behaviours, assess the effectiveness of intervention messaging and the impact ofoperators responsible gaming tools.
Read more about our commitment to social responsibility on pages 42 to 53.
20 TOP STORIES OF 2018 CONTINUED 40M Investment over the last two years into a new Retail back office and shop till system.
FIT FOR THE 6,800 Equinox machines installed to provide our customers with a line-up of the leading gamingcontent in the industry.
FUTURE GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 21 We have backed our commitment to the WHILE THE MAJORITY OF OUR UK Retail business with a 40m investment in a new back ofce and shop till system.
REVENUES 2018: PROFORMA 53% The new system provides a much simpler and efficient process for shop staff and ARE DERIVED ONLINE, OUR RETAIL will include vastly improved safer gambling tools, including the option for in-shop OPERATIONS ARE A CORE facial recognition to assist in player behaviour tracking.
CONTRIBUTOR TO THE OVERALL Both the Coral and Ladbrokes estates have been at the forefront of the multiGROUP 2018: PROFORMA NGR channel customer journey, offering players Simpler and a seamless transition between online and 1.6BN, PROFORMA EBITDA efficient process retail through the industry leading Coral forshop staff Connect and Ladbrokes Grid offerings.
317.1M, AND PARTICULARLY These multi-channel offerings highlight the importance of UK Retail to a multi-channel IN THE UK ARE AMONGST OUR business and have been major drivers of the successful growth of the Ladbrokes MOST RECOGNISABLE ASSETS.
Post the shop Through the historic Ladbrokes and Coral closure programme, the Ladbrokes and Vastly improved brands, GVC is the UKs largest high street Coral estates will continue to provide a key safer gambling tools bookmaker, which employed 18,000 people role in acquiring new online customers and across more than 3,500 shops in 2018. servicing existing customers.
As noted above page 11, the reduction Throughout this change, our priority in maximum stakes permissible on FOBT remains to provide a safe environment machines from 100 to 2, which will be for customers to enjoy their betting In-shop facial introduced in 1 April 2019 will lead to a experiences.
We have a relentless focus recognition to reshaping of our retail estate and the closure on responsible gaming and in the last assist in player of around 1,000 shops.
We have put in place year alone have launched a number of behaviour tracking detailed planning to help manage this change initiatives to ensure that any signs of and, where possible, minimise job losses and problem gambling are identied early and retain as many of our best people as possible.
The shop environment should To enable our UK Retail business tomanage be a great place to spend time for both these changes we have instigated a our customers and our staff, and as well modernisation plan, we call Fit for the Future.
as making improvements to our customer offer, we have continued to invest in safety We continue to invest in new product.
and security upgrades to ensure this.
In-house developed Self Service Betting Terminals SSBTS were successfully trialled in a number of shops in 2018.
We will build on this encouraging start by rolling-out the new terminals across our estate over the next 18 months.
We have also introduced gaming machines units to provide our customers witha line-up of the leading gaming content inthe industry.
40 In-house developed Self Service Betting Terminals SSBTS were successfully trialled in a number of shops in 2018 Market leading multi-channel offering Our unique market-leading Connect and Grid multi-channel offerings are a core part of our Retail offering.
Connect and Grid allow customers to sign-up to the Coral and Ladbrokes online offerings, and seamlessly access their wallet across all products in-store and online.
The Connect and Grid offerings are market leading and will be a major advantage in gaining market share post the B2 stakes restrictions in April.
22 TOP STORIES OF 2018 CONTINUED INTEGRATION ON TARGET GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 23 Focus on Ladbrokes Coral THE GROUPS ABILITY TO Cost savings Technology: Around a third of the synergies resulting EFFICIENTLY INTEGRATE Cost Synergies m from the Ladbrokes Coral acquisition will be Cumulative Cumulative delivered via Technology, with the majority BUSINESSES, LARGE AND SMALL Exit Run realised being realised when the Ladbrokes and Rate in Year Coral UK online businesses migrate from WAS DEMONSTRATED FOLLOWING the existing third party technology platforms 2018 8.0 5.0 onto the GVC proprietary technology platform.
THE LANDMARK ACQUISITION OF 2019 35.0 16.0 26.0 The GVC team have significant experience of 2020 78.0 52.0 62.0 LADBROKES CORAL GROUP online platform migrations, having successfully 2021 130.0 104.0 114.0 migrated multiple major businesses and FOLLOWED BY THE STRATEGIC 2022 130.0 130 brands onto the GVC technology platform over the last four years, and this experience BOLT-ON ADDITIONS OF NEDS will be important in ensuring the customer user experience is not impacted in any way The integration programme commenced in INTERNATIONAL AUSTRALIA AND during or after the migration.
New product earnest immediately after the acquisition of development remains a priority ahead of Ladbrokes Coral was completed, allowing A MAJORITY STAKE IN CRYSTALBET the migration, ensuring that growth in the the Group to access benets including: businesses can continue unhindered.
GVC cross-selling expertise applied to REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA.
the Ladbrokes and Coral brands Marketing: Under the leadership of Shay Segev The Group has identied savings that can Coral marketing tools rolled out in Joint COO the integration team have worked be made on its marketing spend through bwin Germany quickly to establish clear integration plans optimising existing contracts and by utilising and timelines.
Theses plans are underpinned Alignment of the Ladbrokes Coral its increased scale to negotiate improved by three key principles: rstly, to ensure customer service journey to GVC deals on new contracts.
maximum efficiencies are achieved through processes, providing a quicker and the delivery of cost savings but also through The advanced marketing techniques that are more user-friendly customer experience sharing best practice operations across already deployed in the Ladbrokes Coral the legacy GVC business and the acquired business will, over time, be deployed to parts businesses.
Secondly, to ensure ongoing of the legacy GVC business, while the GVC growth in the business is not adversely businesses brand marketing expertise will impacted by any integration decisions, and be used to help the continued reinvigoration Read more about our strategic vision on page 30. nally to minimise the impact on both our of the Ladbrokes brand in the UK.
Operational and Support Functions: The integration plan will deliver a business that is supported by an efficient, exible and t for purpose operational and support function.
Cost savings will be realised across a number of functions as the Ladbrokes Coral business is fully integrated into the GVC Group.
efficiencies will be realised as we move to one Trading and Risk Management function and also one Customer Support function.
Savings will be also be realised across the majority of support function including HR, Finance and other Corporate functions.
Platform for success A key part of the integration of the Ladbrokes Coral The transfer of these businesses onto the GVC businesses will be the migration of the UK-facing online technology stack will release numerous benefits brands onto the GVC technology platform.
Following the to the Ladbrokes, Coral and Gala brands including announcement of an agreement with Playtech plc in access to a wider range of products, improved user February 2019, The Group has commenced planning for experience and a faster route to market for new the migration in the near future.
product and user experience updates.
Operating all of our brands on one platform will enable all parts of our online business to easily share leading product and best-in-class operations.
