115 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2018 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION Presentational changes GVC Holdings PLC the Company is a company incorporated Following the acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc, a number of and domiciled in the Isle of Man on 5 January 2010 whose shares presentational changes have been made to the financial statements.
The principal activities of the Company and These changes have also been reected in the comparative its subsidiaries the Group are described in the strategic report.
A summary of the amendments made are as follows: The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year changes to the presentation of the Income Statement and Statement ended31 December 2018 were authorised for issue in accordance of Cash Flows to report the performance of the Group in the most with a resolution of the Directors on 5 March 2019. appropriate format: The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities goodwill of 972.4m as at 31 December 2017 has been separately are set out in note 5. disclosed from intangible assets on the face of the Balance Sheet: 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION progressive prize pools of 16.0m as at 31 December 2017 have The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been been included within trade and other payables rather than disclosed prepared in accordance, and comply, with International Financial on the face of the Balance Sheet: Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRS Interpretations Committee amortisation of acquired intangibles resulting from IFRS 3 fair value IFRS IC pronouncements as adopted for use in the European Union exercise of 106.5m as at 31 December 2017 is disclosed separately and the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies from underlying amortisation: reporting under IFRSs.
The accounting policies set out in this section as detailed have been applied consistently year-on-year.
ante-post liabilities of 2.7m as at 31 December 2017 have been recognised within other financial liabilities rather than within balances The Group financial statements are prepared under the historical cost with customers: and convention unless otherwise stated.
The statements are also prepared on a going concern basis.
at 31 December 2017, the reported net assets of the Group were 1,278.8m 2016: 1,397.3m.
Following re-presentation at The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling 31December 2017 the net assets of the Group were 1,136.4m.
All values are in millions m rounded to one decimal place except 2016: 1,191.0m.
The loss for the year previously reported was where otherwise indicated.
39.4m following re-presentation this was 34.9m accordingly The separately disclosed items have been included within the the basic EPS previously reported was a loss of 0.13, following appropriate classications in the consolidated income statement.
representation this was a loss of 11.6p.
Further details are given in note 6.
Furthermore following the acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc 3 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES the Group has changed its presentational currency to GBP from previous From 1 January 2018, the Group has applied, for the first time, certain reporting currency which was Euros.
In line with the requirements of standards, interpretations and amendments being: IAS 21 and to assist users of the financial statements following this change, the comparative 2017 and 2016 balance sheets have been IFRS 9, Financial instruments, which addresses the classication, re-presented to m using the procedures outlined below: measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities was issued in July 2015.
IFRS 9 retains and establishes three primary assets and liabilities of foreign operations where the functional measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair currency is other than sterling were translated into sterling at the value through Other Comprehensive Income OCI and fair value relevant closing rates of exchange, non-sterling trading results were through profit and Loss.
The basis of the classication depends on translated in sterling at the relevant average rates of exchange, the business model and the contractual cash ow characteristics of differences arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets the financial asset.
Investments in equity instruments are required to and the results for the year have been taken to the foreign currency be measured at fair value through profit or loss or with an irrevocable translation reserve: option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI.
Fair value all movements comprising differences on the retranslation of the changes recorded through OCI are not subsequently recycled.
opening net assets of non-sterling subsidiaries have been taken There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Share capital, share the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. premium, and other reserves were translated at the historic rates prevailing at the dates of transactions: and For financial liabilities there were no changes to classication and measurement.
the exchange rates used to perform the translation were as follows: Financial assets of 2.3m, previously held as available for sale under Euro sterling exchange rate December December IAS 39 are recognised as fair value through profit and loss and further 2017 2016 financial assets of 0.6m previously held as available for sale under IAS 39 are recognised at amortised cost under IFRS 9.
Closing rate 1.125 1.173 The adoption of the following amendments did not have any impact Average rate 1.135 n a on the current period or any prior period and are not likely to affect future periods: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: and Amendments to IFRS2 Share based payments Amendments to clarify the classication and measurement of share based payment transactions.
