Financial Statements Accounting Policies Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations issued and effective at the time of preparing these accounts.
The principal Group accounting policies are explained below and have been applied consistently throughout the years ended 31 March 2018 and 1 April 2017 other than those noted below.
The Group accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as described below under the heading Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting.
Effective this financial year, the Group changed its reporting basis from weeks to calendar months.
The accounting reference date is therefore 31 March, and the Annual Report has been prepared for the year ended 31 March 2018.
For the current financial year, 52 weeks is equivalent to one year, so the comparative period presented in the financial statements and related notes remains consistent.
New Standards and Interpretations not yet applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations that are potentially relevant to the Group, and which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : - IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
- IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
- IFRS 16 Leases effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
- Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
- Annual Improvements 20142017 Cycle effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
- IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
- IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
- Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for IFRS 16 Leases.
Further information on the impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases is given below.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments For the Group, transition to IFRS 9 is effective from 1 April 2018.
The half year results for the period ended 30 September 2018 will be IFRS 9 compliant with the first Annual Report published in accordance with IFRS 9 being the 31 March 2019 report.
The Group has elected not to restate comparatives on initial application of IFRS 9, the opening impact of adoption of IFRS 9 will be recognised in reserves.
IFRS 9 provides a new expected losses impairment model for financial assets, including trade receivables, and includes amendments to classification and measurement of financial instruments.
An accounting policy choice is available with regards to applying the new hedge accounting requirements or retaining IAS 39.
The Group has elected to retain IAS 39.
During this reporting period the Group has undertaken an impact assessment of this new standard on its financial statements.
The Groups use of financial instruments is limited to short-term trading balances such as receivables and payables, borrowings and derivatives used for hedging foreign exchange risks.
Therefore, the standard impacts the Groups classification of financial instruments and the measurement of impairment of short-term financial assets.
As part of the impact assessment, using the simplified approach allowed by the standard, we established an appropriate impairment model and accompanying processes to be applied to receivables by our companies and have asked them to recalculate their provision at 31 March 2018 using this new methodology.
The impact is an immaterial release of provision of less than 500,000 arising where certain companies have historically held larger provisions.
For most companies the revised methodology results in a similar level of provision to that held under current accounting standards.
In accordance with IFRS 9, this adjustment will be reflected as an opening retained earnings adjustment in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2019.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 125 125 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Accounting Policiescontinued New Standards and Interpretations not yet applied continued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers For the Group, transition to IFRS 15 is effective from 1 April 2018.
The half year results for the period ended 30 September 2018 will be IFRS 15 compliant with the first Annual Report published in accordance with IFRS 15 being the 31 March 2019 report.
The Group plans to adopt a fully retrospective transition approach and so comparatives for the year ended 31 March 2018 will be restated.
IFRS 15 replaces existing revenue guidance including: - IAS 18 Revenue - IAS 11 Construction contracts - IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRS 15 sets out the requirements for recognising revenue from contracts with customers.
The standard requires entities to apportion revenue earned from contracts to individual promises, or performance obligations, on a stand-alone selling price basis, based on a five-step model.
The Group has successfully completed its transition exercise in quantifying the full impact of this standard.
Having performed an impact assessment in 2016 17, during 2017 18 the Group has worked through a comprehensive transition exercise at each of its subsidiaries.
The autonomous nature of the Group means that each subsidiary sets its own terms and conditions and operating procedures and as such this was the appropriate level for the transition exercise.
The transition exercise has involved scoping the Groups revenues to identify revenue streams with like commercial terms and performing sample contract reviews to determine the appropriate revenue recognition under IFRS 15.
To ensure a consistent approach to the exercise and consistent judgements, the exercise has been supported by Group through setting the approach to transition, and providing appropriate tools and guidance, including a revised Group Accounting Manual.
The following areas of potential differences were identified from our initial impact assessment which have been investigated as part of our transition exercise: - Certain companies across the Group provide a product which involves an element of customisation.
Currently under IAS 18 the revenue recognition for such product is at a point in time on transfer of the risk and reward of the transaction to the customer.
IFRS 15 requires that for such transactions, where certain criteria are met, revenue is recognised over time.
Based on the review of specific contract terms against the requirements of IFRS 15 only in very limited circumstances are the criteria met and as such there is no material change in the timing or quantum of revenue recognition in relation to these arrangements.
- Certain companies across the Group arrange shipping and handling on behalf of their customers but, based on assessment of all terms and conditions, determine control of goods to pass on despatch.
Accordingly shipping and handling is a separate performance obligation under IFRS 15 and revenue is only recognised when the performance obligation is fulfilled.
Having reviewed the terms of the arrangements there is not a material change in the timing or quantum of revenue recognition from this change.
- Many of our companies have warranty arrangements with their customers.
Having reviewed the details of the warranty arrangements, these have been largely determined to be of an assurance nature and as such there is no material change in accounting required by IFRS 15.
- Many of the companies have variable consideration arrangements with their customers.
Having reviewed the details of these arrangements against IFRS 15 and current accounting practices, there is no change in the timing or quantum of revenue recognition.
- Sales commissions and other third-party sales acquisition costs resulting directly from securing contracts with customers are required to be recognised as an asset under IFRS 15 and recognised over the associated contract period where that contract is more than one year in length.
Having reviewed the nature of the arrangements there is no change in the current accounting.
Based on our work, most of our companies are unaffected, but have implemented process changes to comply with IFRS 15 now and in the future.
A small number of our companies have individually material adjustments to their balance sheets through acceleration or deferral of revenue on the opening balance sheet.
However, at a Group level these do not represent a material change.
The net impact to the opening balance sheet and balance sheet as at 31 March 2018 is an immaterial credit of less than 500,000 with a corresponding debit to retained earnings.
Accordingly, the net movement in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2018 is less than 100,000 and also immaterial.
IFRS 16 Leases For the Group, transition to IFRS 16 will take effect from 1 April 2019.
The half year results for the period ending 30 September 2019 will be IFRS 16 compliant with the first Annual Report published in accordance with IFRS 16 being for the year ending 31 March 2020.
IFRS 16 replaces existing lease guidance including: - IAS 17 Leases - IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease - SIC 15 Operating leases Incentives - SIC 27 Evaluating the substance of transactions involving the legal form of a lease IFRS 16 provides a single on-balance sheet accounting model for lessees which recognises a right of use asset, representing its right to use the underlying asset, and lease liability, representing its obligations to make payment in respect of the use of the underlying asset.
The distinction between finance and operating leases for lessees is removed.
Lessor accounting remains similar to the existing standard with no significant impact expected.
126 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 126 Financial Statements Accounting Policies New Standards and Interpretations not yet applied continued IFRS 16 Leases continued The Group will likely opt to apply the exemptions available in respect of leases which are less than 12 months long and those which have been classified as leases of low-value items.
In addition, the Group will likely apply the practical expedient allowing for IFRS 16 to be applied to all contracts previously assessed as containing a lease under IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 without reassessing whether such contracts meet the definition of a lease under IFRS 16.
The Group is currently assessing whether a full retrospective approach will be applied upon transition or whether a modified approach will be taken with optional practical expedients.
The Group is currently assessing the financial impact of the new standard.
The most significant impact currently identified will be that the Groups land and buildings leases will be brought on to the balance sheet.
Further assessment of other leases is currently ongoing.
The actual impact of applying IFRS 16 is dependent on future economic conditions including: - movements in the Groups borrowing rate at 31 March 2019: - the composition of the Groups lease portfolio at transition date: - the Groups view on whether renewal options will be exercised: and - the Groups final decisions regarding the use of recognition exemptions and practical expedients for transition.
The Groups future lease commitments for land and buildings at the balance sheet date, which provides an indicator of the value to be brought on to the balance sheet, is 43m.
In addition, the profile of expenses related to leasing arrangements will change.
Straight line operating lease expenses will be replaced by the recognition of depreciation of the right-of-use asset and interest charges on lease liabilities.
No significant impacts are expected in relation to leases currently classified as finance leases in the Group financial statements.
New Standards and Interpretations applied for the first time The following Standards with an effective date of 1 January 2017 have been adopted without any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
- Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative - Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses - Annual Improvements 20142016 Cycle Use of Alternative performance measures APMs In the reporting of the financial information, the Group uses certain measures that are not required under IFRS, the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP under which the Group reports.
The Directors believe that Return on Total Invested Capital ROTIC, Return on Capital Employed ROCE, Organic growth at constant currency, adjusted profit and earnings per share measures and adjusted operating cash flow provide additional and more consistent measures of underlying performance to shareholders by removing non-trading items that are not closely related to the Groups trading or operating cash flows.
These and other alternative performance measures are used by the Directors for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms ROTIC, ROCE, organic growth at constant currency and Adjusted are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
The principal items which are included in adjusting items are set out below in the Groups accounting policy and in note 1.
The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being reported for continuing operations excluding adjusting items.
Definitions of the Groups material alternative performance measures along with reconciliation to their IFRS equivalent measure are included in note 3.
Key accounting policies Below we set out our key accounting policies, with a list of all other accounting policies thereafter.
Going concern The Directors believe, at the time of approving the financial statements, that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current committed facilities, which includes a 550m Revolving Credit Facility running until November 2022 of which 437m remains undrawn at the date of this report.
With this in mind, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Further detail is contained on page 80.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 127 127 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Accounting Policiescontinued Key accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: - the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus - the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus - the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less - the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable may be accounted for as either: a Consideration transferred, which is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent purchase consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement: or b Remuneration, which is expensed in the Income Statement over the associated period of service.
An indicator of such treatment includes when payments to employees of the acquired company are contingent on a post-acquisition event, but may be automatically forfeited on termination of employment.
For acquisitions between 4 April 2004 the date from which the financial statements were reported under IFRS and 2 April 2010, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition, including acquisition costs and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Goodwill therefore includes non-identified intangible assets including business processes, buyer-specific synergies, know-how and workforce-related industry-specific knowledge and technical skills.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions would be recognised directly in the Consolidated Income Statement.
On closure or disposal of an acquired business, goodwill would be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on closure or disposal.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to acquisitions prior to 4 April 2004 in its consolidated accounts.
As a result, the net book value of goodwill recognised as an intangible asset under UK GAAP at 3 April 2004 was brought forward unadjusted as the cost of goodwill recognised under IFRS at 4 April 2004 subject to impairment testing on that date: and goodwill that was written off to reserves prior to 28 March 1998 under UK GAAP will not be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on disposal or closure of previously acquired businesses from 4 April 2004 onwards.
Intangible assets a Acquired intangible assets An intangible resource acquired with a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Acquired intangible assets, comprising trademarks, technology and know-how and customer relationships, are amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and twenty years.
b Product development costs Research expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred, unless it relates to the development of a new or substantially improved product, is incurred after the technical feasibility and economic viability of the product has been proven and the decision to complete the development has been taken, and can be measured reliably.
Such expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost and is amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of three years.
Pensions The Group makes contributions to various pension plans.
For defined benefit plans, the asset or liability recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is the difference between the fair value of the plans assets and the present value of the defined obligation at that date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated separately for each plan on an annual basis by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, and are taken to other comprehensive income.
Current and past service costs, along with the impact of any settlements or curtailments, are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
The net interest expense on pension plans liabilities and the expected return on the plans assets is recognised within finance expense in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement when they fall due.
128 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 128 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of Group accounts in conformity with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The following four areas of critical accounting judgement and key estimation uncertainty have been identified as having significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year: Critical accounting judgements Goodwill impairment Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of cash generating unit CGU groups to which goodwill has been allocated.
Management allocates a new acquisition to a CGU group based on which one is expected to benefit most from that business combination.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the present value of future cash flows of CGUs.
The future cash flows are based on annual budgets, as approved by the Board, to which the managements expectation of market-share and long-term growth rates are applied.
The present value is then calculated based on managements estimate of future discount rates.
The Board reviews these key assumptions market-share, long-term growth rates, and discount rates and the sensitivity analysis around these assumptions.
Further details are provided in note 11.
Intangible assets IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations requires that goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included in intangible assets.
IFRS 3 revised also requires the identification and valuation of other separable intangible assets at acquisition.
The assumptions involved in valuing these intangible assets require the use of estimates and judgements.
IAS 38 Intangible Assets requires that development costs, arising from the application of research findings or other technical knowledge to a plan or design of a new or substantially improved product, are capitalised, subject to certain criteria being met.
Determining the technical feasibility and estimating the future cash flows generated by the products in development requires judgements which may differ from the actual outcome.
The estimates and judgements made in relation to both acquired intangible assets and capitalised development costs, cover identification of relevant assets, future growth rates, expected inflation rates and the discount rate used.
Management also make judgements on the useful economic lives of the intangible assets.
Defined benefit pension plan liabilities Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires judgement in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
These include future mortality, discount rate and inflation.
Management makes these judgements in consultation with an independent actuary.
Details of the judgements made in calculating the defined benefit obligation are disclosed in note 28.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Contingent consideration Determining the value of contingent consideration recognised as part of the acquisition of subsidiaries requires assumptions to determine the expected performance of the acquired business and the amount of contingent consideration that will therefore become payable.
Initial estimates of expected performance are made by the Directors responsible for completing the acquisition and form a key component of the financial due diligence that takes place prior to completion.
Subsequent measurement of contingent consideration is based on the Directors appraisal of the acquired business performance in the post-acquisition period with any required adjustments to the amount payable recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as required under IFRS 3.
Further details are provided in notes 19 and 24.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 129 129 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Accounting Policiescontinued Other accounting policies Basis of consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Halma plc and all of its subsidiary companies made up to 31 March 2018, adjusted to eliminate intraGroup transactions, balances, income and expenses.
The results of subsidiary companies acquired or discontinued are included from the month of their acquisition or to the month of their discontinuation.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but without control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the year of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Other intangible assets a Computer software Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset, and is amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of between three and five years.
b Other intangibles Other intangibles are amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and five years.
Impairment of non-current assets All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill and capitalised development expenditure relating to a product that is not yet in full production are subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement to the extent that an assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the assets net realisable value and its value in use.
An assets value in use represents the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash generating unit to which it relates.
The present value is calculated using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset concerned.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its carrying amount had no impairment loss been recognised in previous periods.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Segmental reporting An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, and whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker the Group Chief Executive to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Reportable segments are operating segments that either meet the thresholds and conditions set out in IFRS 8 or are considered by the Board to be appropriately designated as reportable segments.
Segment result represents operating profits and includes an allocation of Head Office expenses.
Segment result excludes tax and financing items.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment excluding land and buildings, inventories, trade and other receivables.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, provisions and other payables.
Unallocated items represent land and buildings, corporate and deferred taxation balances, defined benefit plan liabilities, contingent purchase consideration, all components of net cash borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress are included at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated either on a first in, first out or an average cost basis and includes direct materials and the appropriate proportion of production and other overheads considered by the Directors to be attributable to bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the year end.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to complete and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
130 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 130 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Other accounting policies continued Revenue Revenue represents sales, less returns, by subsidiary companies to external customers excluding value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Transactions are recorded as revenue when the delivery of products or performance of services takes place in accordance with the transfer of risks and rewards and with the contracted terms of sale.
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised while the contracts are in progress.
Revenue is recognised proportionally to the stage of completion of the contract, based on the fair value of goods and services provided to date, taking into account the sign-off of milestone delivery by customers.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Adjusting items When items of income or expense are material and they are relevant to an understanding of the entitys financial performance, they are disclosed separately within the financial statements.
Such adjusting items include material costs or reversals arising from acquisitions or disposals of businesses, including acquisition costs, creation or reversals of provisions related to changes in estimates for contingent consideration on acquisition, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, and other one-off items that may arise.
Taxation Taxation comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in Shareholders funds, in which case it too is recognised in Shareholders funds.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, along with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method, apart from the following differences which are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates and laws, which are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that recovery is probable.
Foreign currencies The Group presents its accounts in Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Net assets of overseas subsidiary companies are expressed in Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year, and trading results and cash flows at the average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign business is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and is translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
Exchange gains or losses arising on these translations are taken to the Translation reserve within Shareholders funds.
In the event that an overseas subsidiary is disposed of or closed, the profit or loss on disposal or closure will be determined after taking into account the cumulative translation difference held within the Translation reserve attributable to that subsidiary.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the Translation to be nil at 4 April 2004.
Accordingly, the profit or loss on disposal or closure of foreign subsidiaries will not include any currency translation differences which arose before 4 April 2004.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rate risk using forward exchange contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 26.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value through profit and loss held for trading unless they are in a designated hedge relationship.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the Consolidated Income Statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm commitments cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 131 131 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Accounting Policiescontinued Other accounting policies continued Cash flow hedge accounting The Group designates certain hedging instruments as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument has been or is expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Note 26 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and the movements in the Hedging reserve in equity.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion as a result of being over hedged is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to the Consolidated Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised, when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised, in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Net investment hedge accounting The Group uses foreign currency denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Groups net investment in overseas companies.
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging, the variability in the net assets of such companies caused by changes in exchange rates and the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in the Translation reserve.
The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Employee share plans Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups share incentive plan, the performance share plan and the executive share plan.
a Share incentive plan Awards of shares under the share incentive plan are made to qualifying employees depending on salary and service criteria.
The shares awarded under this plan are purchased in the market by the plans trustees at the time of the award, and are then held in trust for a minimum of three years.
The costs of this plan are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the three-year vesting period of the awards.
b Performance share plan Awards under this plan are partly equity-settled and partly cash-settled.
Grants were subject to both market-based and non-market-based vesting criteria.
No further grants are made under this plan.
The fair value of the equity-settled portion at the date of grant is established by using an appropriate simulation method to reflect the likelihood of market-based performance conditions being met.
The fair value is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the three-year vesting period, with appropriate adjustments being made during this period to reflect expected and actual forfeitures arising from the non-market-based performance conditions only.
The corresponding credit is to Shareholders funds.
c Executive share plan During the year ended 2 April 2016, Halma plc introduced the Executive Share Plan, in which executive Directors and certain senior employees participate.
Grants under this Plan are in the form of Performance Awards or Deferred Share Awards.
Performance Awards are subject to non-market-based vesting criteria, and Deferred Share Awards are subject only to continuing service of the employee.
The fair value of the awards at the date of grant, which is estimated to be equal to the market value, is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with appropriate adjustments being made during this period to reflect expected and actual forfeitures.
d Cash settled For cash-settled awards, a liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
132 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 132 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Other accounting policies continued Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of the cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed where a possible obligation dependent on uncertain future events exists as at the end of the reporting period or a present obligation for which payment either cannot be measured or is not considered to be probable is noted.
Contingent liabilities are not accrued for and no contingent liability is disclosed where the possibility of payment is considered to be remote.
Deferred government grant income Government grant income that is linked to capital expenditure is deferred to the Consolidated Balance Sheet and credited to the Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the related asset.
In addition, the Group claims research and development expenditure credits arising on qualifying expenditure in its UK-based subsidiaries and shows these above the line in Operating profit.
Where the credits arise on expenditure that is capitalised as part of internally generated capitalised development costs, the income is deferred to the Consolidated Balance Sheet and credited to the Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the related asset in line with the policy stated above.
Operating profit Operating profit is presented net of direct production costs, production overheads, selling costs, distribution costs and administrative expenditure see note 6.
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs but before the share of results of associates, profit or loss on disposal of operations, finance income and finance costs.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits with an initial maturity of less than three months, and bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
Dividends Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the distribution is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on a straight-line basis over each assets estimated economic life.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: Freehold property 2% Leasehold properties: Long leases more than 50 years unexpired 2% Short leases less than 50 years unexpired Period of lease Plant, equipment and vehicles 8% to 33.3% Leases Leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those that attach to owned assets are classified as finance leases, of which the Group has none.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals, and any incentives receivable, are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance income and expenses The Group recognises Interest income or expense using the effective interest rate method.
Finance income and finance costs include: - Interest payable on loans and borrowings - Net interest charge on pension plan liabilities - Amortisation of finance costs - Interest receivable in respect of cash and cash equivalents - Unwinding of the discount on provisions - Fair value movements on derivative financial instruments Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 133 133
