Glossary Adjusted figures per share Reported amounts adjusted in accordance with EPRA guidelines to exclude certain items as set out in note 10 to the financial statements.
Anchor store A major store, usually a department or DIY store, a supermarket or leisure facility, occupying a large unit within aflagship destination or retail park, which serves as a draw to other retailers and consumers.
Average cost of debt The cost of finance expressed as a percentage of the weighted average debt during the period.
or weighted average interest rate BREEAM An environmental rating assessed under the Building Research Establishments Environmental AssessmentMethod.
CAGR Compound Annual The return on investment over a specified period of time.
Growth Rate Capital return The change in property value during the period after taking account of capital expenditure, calculated on a monthly time-weighted basis after taking account of exchange translation movements.
Cost ratio or EPRA cost Total operating costs being property costs and administration costs less management fees as a percentage of ratio gross rental income, after rents payable.
Both operating costs and gross rental income are adjusted for costs associated with inclusive leases.
CPI Consumer Price Index A measure of inflation based on the weighted average of prices of consumer goods andservices.
CPO Compulsory Purchase A legal function in the UK by which land or property can be obtained to enable a development or infrastructure Order scheme without the consent of the owner where there is a compelling case in the public interest.
CVA Compulsory Voluntary A legally binding agreement with a companys creditors to restructure its liabilities, including future lease Arrangement liabilities.
Dividend cover Adjusted earnings per share divided by dividend per share.
Earnings per share EPS Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders divided by the average number of shares in issue during the period.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EPRA The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry body.
This organisation has issued Best Practice Recommendations with the intention of improving the transparency, comparability and relevance of the published results of listed real estate companies in Europe.
Equivalent yield true and The capitalisation rate applied to future cash flows to calculate the gross property value.
The cash flows reflect nominal future rents resulting from lettings, lease renewals and rent reviews based on current ERVs.
The true equivalent yield TEY assumes rents are received quarterly in advance.
The nominal equivalent yield NEY assumes rents are received annually in arrears.
The property true and nominal equivalent yields are determined by the Groups external valuers.
ERV The estimated market rental value of the total lettable space in a property calculated by the Groups external valuers.
It is calculated after deducting head and equity rents, and car parking and commercialisation runningcosts.
F&B Food and beverage ranging from grab and go to fine dining.
Gearing Net debt expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
Gross property value or Gross Property value before deduction of purchasers costs, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
asset value GAV Gross rental income GRI Income from rents, car parks and commercialisation income, after accounting for the net effect of the amortisation of lease incentives.
IAS IFRS International Accounting Standard International Financial Reporting Standard.
Inclusive lease A lease, often for a short duration, under which the rent is inclusive of costs such as service charge, rates, utilities etc.
Instead, the landlord incurs these costs as part of the overall commercial arrangement.
Income return The income derived from a property as a percentage of the opening property value, taking account of capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a time-weighted basis.
Initial yield or Net initial Annual cash rents receivable net of head and equity rents and the cost of vacancy, and, in the case of France, net yield NIY of an allowance for costs of approximately 5%, primarily for management fees, as a percentage of gross property value, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
Rents receivable following the expiry of rent-free periods are not included.
Rent reviews are assumed to have been settled at the contractual review date at ERV.
Interest cover Net rental income divided by net cost of finance before exceptional finance costs, capitalised interest and change in fair value of derivatives.
Interest rate or currency swap An agreement with another party to exchange an interest or currency rate obligation for a pre-determined period.
or derivatives Joint venture and associate Fees charged to joint ventures and associates for accounting, secretarial, asset and development management management fees services.
192 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Other Information Glossary Like-for-like LFL NRI The percentage change in net rental income for flagship destinations and retail park investment properties owned throughout both current and prior periods, after taking account of exchange translation movements.
Properties undergoing a significant extension are excluded from this calculation during the period of the works.
Forinterim reporting periods properties sold between the balance sheet date and the date of the announcement are also excluded from LFL NRI.
LTV Loan to value Net debt expressed as a percentage of the property portfolio value calculated on a proportionally consolidatedbasis.
MSCI Property market benchmark indices produced by MSCI, rebranded from IPD in 2018.
Net asset value NAV Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
per share Net rental income NRI Gross rental income less head and equity rents payable, and other property related costs.
Occupancy rate The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is let, expressed as a percentage of the total ERV of that property or portfolio.
Occupational cost ratio OCR The proportion of retailers sales compared with the total cost of occupation, being rent, business rates, service charge and insurance.
Over-rented The amount, or percentage, by which the ERV falls short of rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
Passing rents or rents The annual rental income receivable from an investment property, after any rent-free periods and after deducting passing head and equity rents and car parking and commercialisation running costs.
This may be more or less than the ERV see over-rented and reversionary or under-rented.
Pre-let A lease signed with a tenant prior to the completion of a development.
Principal lease A lease signed with a tenant with a secure term of greater than three years and where the unit is not reconfigured.
This enables letting metrics to be stated on a comparable basis.
Property fee income Amounts recharged to tenants or co-owners for property management services.
Property Income A dividend, generally subject to withholding tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay from its tax-exempt property Distribution PID rental business and which is taxable for UK-resident shareholders at their marginal tax rate.
Property interests The Groups non-wholly owned properties which management proportionally consolidates when reviewing the Share of performance of the business.
These exclude the Groups premium outlets interests in Value Retail and VIA Outlets which are not proportionally consolidated.
Property joint ventures The Groups joint ventures which management proportionally consolidate when reviewing the performance of Share of the business, but exclude the Groups interests in the VIA Outlets joint venture.
Proportional consolidation The aggregation of the financial results of the Reported Group together with the Groups share of Property interests being the Groups share of Property joint ventures as shown in note 12, and Nicetoile as shown in note 13.
QIAIF Qualifying Investor Alternative Investment Fund.
A regulated tax regime in the Republic of Ireland which exempts participants from Irish tax on property income and chargeable gains subject to certain requirements.
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust.
A tax regime which in the UK exempts participants from corporation tax both on UK rental income and gains arising on UK investment property sales, subject to certain requirements.
Reported Group The financial results as presented under IFRS which represent the Groups 100% owned properties and share ofjoint operations, transactions and balances and the equity accounted Groups interests in joint ventures andassociates.
Return on shareholders Capital growth and profit for the period expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds at the beginning equity ROE of the year, all excluding deferred tax and certain non-recurring items.
Reversionary or under-rented The amount, or percentage, by which the ERV exceeds the rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
SIIC Socits dInvestissements Immobiliers Ctes.
A tax regime in France which exempts participants from the French tax on property income and gains subject to certain requirements.
Temporary lettings Temporary leases of less than five years.
Total development cost All capital expenditure on a development project, including capitalised interest.
TDC Total property return TPR Net rental income and capital growth expressed as a percentage of the opening book value of property adjusted or total return forcapital expenditure, calculated on a monthly time-weighted basis after taking account of exchange translationmovements.
Total shareholder return Dividends and capital growth in a Companys share price, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the TSR beginning of the year.
Turnover rent Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
Vacancy rate The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is currently available for letting, expressed as a percentage of the ERV of that property or portfolio.
Yield on cost Passing rents expressed as a percentage of the total development cost of a property.
com 193 Disclaimer This document contains certain statements that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information.
These statements are forward-looking in nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Many of these risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond Hammersons ability to control or estimate precisely, such as future market conditions, currency fluctuations, the behaviour of other market participants, the actions of governmental regulators and other risk factors such as the Companys ability to continue to obtain financing to meet its liquidity needs, changes in the political, social and regulatory framework in which the Company operates or in economic or technological trends or conditions, including inflation and consumer confidence, on a global, regional or national basis.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document.
Hammerson does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Information contained in this document relating to the Company should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
194 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 This page is intentionally left blank This page is intentionally left blank Thank You Wed like to thank everyone who has helped to produce this report: Michael Ashton, Rintu Alex, Warren Austin, Emma Baxter, Sarah Booth, Michelle Boswell, Stephen Brown, Jenny Casson, Oliver Choppin, Doug Cleary, Julia Collier, Julia Crane, Tamara Deering, Paul Denby, Mark Duhig, Abi Dunning, Louise Ellison, Alex Evered, Melissa Flight, Karen Green, Dani Harris, Sam Henton, Rachael Kent, Barbara Lees, Kathryn Malloch, Simon Maynard, Vanessa Mitchell, Laura Neville, Jindi Pank, Mike Parr, Mike Pasmore, Maya Patel, Verity Pickard, Antony Primic, Chris Riley, Louise Romain, Amrit Rooprai, Sophie Ross, Catrin Sharp, Richard Sharp, Richard Shaw, Aurelie Siha, Daniel Williams This report is printed on paper certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council and is recyclable and acid-free.
Pureprint Ltd is FSC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy.
Pureprint Ltd aims to reduce at source the effect its operations have on the environment and is committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Pureprint Ltd is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Hammerson plc Kings Place 90 York Way London N1 9GE
