GLOSSARY OF ALTERNATIVE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCEMEASURES Within the report and financial statements various alternative financial performance measures are referred to, which are non-GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice measures.
They are used in order to provide a better understanding of the performance of the Group and the table below states those which have been used, how they have been calculated and why they have been used.
Measure Calculation Why we use this measure Dividend pay-out ratio % The total dividend per share divided by the Provides a measure of the level of profits earnings per share EPS for a financial year.
paid out to shareholders and the level retained in the business.
Dividend per share pence per share Total dividend payable relating to a Dividend per share is pertinent information financial year divided by the total number to shareholders and investors and provides of shares eligible to receive a dividend.
them with the ability to assess the dividend Note ordinary shares held in the yield of Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares.
Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust have agreed to waive all dividends.
Operating costs The costs as per the income statement In light of the transitional period relating to excluding commission payable i. e. the the Retail Distribution Review see net aggregate of staff costs, other operating revenue below and the impact this had on costs and FSCS costs.
commission payable in the form of loyalty bonuses, this measure of operating costs provides a more useful comparative measure over time.
Operating profit margin Profits after deducting operating costs but Provides a measure of profitability of the the impact of finance income and other core operating activities and excludes gains or losses divided by revenue.
Net revenue Total revenue less commission payments Because of the changes brought about to which are primarily loyalty bonuses paid to the client charging structure by the Retail See consolidated income Statement Vantage clients.
Distribution Review RDR there was a on page 111 for the reconciliation of transitional period from 1 March 2014 to net revenue 1 April 2016.
From 1 March 2014, revenue was increased as Hargreaves Lansdown earned both a new platform fee from clients and the existing renewal commission from the fund management groups based on the value of funds held by clients.
At the same time the loyalty bonus paid to clients was significantly increased on the pre-RDR funds to largely mitigate the impact of the new platform fee.
In order to aid comparability during the period of transition to 1 April 2016 the net revenue measure became the most useful comparative measure of revenue as it better reflected the underlying income relating to funds held by clients.
Net recurring revenue The total value of renewal commission Provides a measure of the quality of our after deducting loyalty bonuses platform earnings.
We believe recurring revenue fees, management fees and interest provides greater profit resilience and earned on client money.
hence is of higher quality than nonrecurring revenue.
154 Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 OTHER INFORMATION Measure Calculation Why we use this measure Percentage of recurring net revenue % The total value of renewal commission Provides a measure of the quality of our after deducting loyalty bonuses, platform earnings.
We believe recurring revenue fees, management fees and interest provides greater profit resilience and earned on client money divided by the total hence is of higher quality than nonnet revenue.
Net revenue margin bps Total net revenue divided by the average Provides the most comparable means value of assets under administration which of tracking, over time, the margin earned includes the Portfolio Management on the assets under administration and Services assets under management held is used by management to assess in funds on which a platform fee is charged.
Net revenue margin from cash bps Net revenue from cash net interest Provides a means of tracking, over time, earned on the value of client money held the margin earned on cash held by on the platform divided by the average our clients.
value of assets under administration held as client money.
Net revenue margin from funds bps Net revenue derived from funds held by Provides the most comparable means of clients platform fees, initial commission tracking, over time, the margin earned on less loyalty bonus divided by the average funds held by our clients.
value of assets under administration held as funds, which includes the Portfolio Management Services assets under management held in funds on which a platform fee is charged.
Net revenue margin from HL Funds Management fees derived from HL Funds Provides a means of tracking, over time, but excluding the platform fee divided by the margin earned on HL Funds.
the average value of assets held in the HL Funds.
Provides a means of tracking, over time, Net revenue margin from shares bps Net revenue from shares stockbroking the margin earned on shares held by commissions, management fees where shares are held in a SIPP or ISA, less the our clients.
cost of dealing errors divided by the average value of assets under administration held as shares.
Recurring revenue Revenue that is received every month We believe recurring revenue provides depending on the value of assets held on greater profit resilience and hence is of the platform, including platform fee, higher quality than non-recurring revenue.
management fees and interest earned on client money.
Transactional revenue Revenue that is non-recurring in nature Such revenue is not as high quality as and dependent on a client instruction such recurring revenue but helps to show the as a deal to buy or sell shares or take advice.
diversification of our revenue streams.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 155
