178 | Other information Glossary 4Cs IASB Colleagues, customers, company and community.
The Groups International Accounting Standards Board.
cultural approach that shapes decision making processes andperformance.
LCP Live Customer Policies: i. e. the number of active policies.
Accident year loss ratio Accident year loss ratio is defined as net claims incurred in the Net claims incurred period divided by net earned premiums.
Net claims incurred represents claims expensed in the period less the portion of claims covered by the Groups reinsurers.
Calendar year loss ratio Calendar year loss ratio is the accident year loss ratio adjusted Net earned premiums to include the impact of prior year development of claims and Net earned premiums represents gross earned premiums PPO reserves.
after deducting earned premiums ceded to reinsurers.
Claims reserves Net written premiums The Groups technical claims reserves represent the estimated Gross written premiums less the portion of written premiums ultimate cost of its exposure to claims and expenses against ceded to the Groups panel of reinsurers.
business which was previously underwritten.
Ogden rate Co-insurance The Ogden rate is a discount rate set by the Lord Chancellor An agreement between more than one insurer to underwrite and used by UK courts in the calculation of lump sum an insurance contract.
Each co-insurer receives a presettlement awards.
determined portion of the benefit and risk from the underwritten contract.
Combined operating ratio Combined operating ratio is the sum of the calendar year loss PPOs ratio and expense ratio.
Periodic Payment Orders: these are a type of compensation award, in existence in the UK since 2005, in respect of DRIP catastrophic personal injury claims.
Instead of paying a Dividend reinvestment plan.
claimant a single lump sum, PPOs involve making a series of regular payments to pay for the individuals care costs for the EFRAG rest of his or her life.
European Financial Reporting Advisory Group.
Profit commission Expense ratio Performance based payments from reinsurers based on Expense ratio is a measure of incurred operational and contractual performance targets.
acquisition expenses, net of certain reinsurance commissions, direct cost contributions or other profit share arrangements, Reinsurance expressed relative to net earned premiums.
Agreement with a panel of insurers whereby the Group mitigates its risk of losses from claims by transmitting a Group portion of risk in exchange for a portion of premium.
The The combined operations of Hastings Group Holdings plc and Group utilises reinsurance on a quota share basis a its subsidiaries.
percentage share of premiums, claims and expenses andexcess of loss basis full reinsurance for claims over anagreedvalue.
Gross earned premiums Gross written premiums in the current and prior periods Retail recognised over the life of the underlying insurance contracts.
The Groups retail business, Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL, trading as Hastings Direct, based in Gross written premiums Bexhill-on-Sea, UK.
Total premiums the Group expects to receive over the life of insurance contracts underwritten by Underwriting.
This is Underwriting before ceding to the Groups reinsurers their share of premiums and includes the Groups portion of premiums The Groups underwriting business, Advantage Insurance under co-insurance agreements.
Company Limited AICL, based in Gibraltar.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018
