124 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Hastings Group Holdings plc the Company, Hastings, or HGH has its registered office and principal place of business at Conquest House, Collington Avenue, Bexhill-on-Sea, TN39 3LW, United Kingdom.
The Companys registered number is 09635183.
The principal activities of the Group are the broking and underwriting of UK private car, van, bike and home insurance.
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 and comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS that are in effect at 31 December 2018.
IFRS comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Going concern The financial performance and position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out in the primary statements and the subsequent notes.
Further analysis of the Groups operations, capital management strategy, risk management practices and growth strategy may be found in the Strategic Report.
Having considered the foregoing items, the Groups approved budget and cash flow forecasts for the next 12 months and beyond, and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Basis of measurement The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling.
Amounts are rounded to the nearest million with one decimal place e. g. 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amounts, events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to these Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed in Note 3.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and property which are measured at their fair value or revalued amounts.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the Group.
Subsidiaries are investees controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an investee if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Group reassesses whether it has control if there are changes to one or more of the elements of control.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control commences until the date when control ceases.
Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Adoption of new IFRS This is the first set of the Groups annual financial statements in which IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases have been applied.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 125 1.
Basis of preparation continued Adoption of new IFRS continued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 The Group implemented IFRS 15, which replaced IAS 18 Revenue, with effect from 1 January 2018 and applied to insurance broking activities recognised from this date.
Income from underwriting activities continues to be recognised in accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
IFRS 15 provides a five step framework for the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers and has resulted in broking income being allocated amongst performance obligations as defined by the Standard.
The Group has used the cumulative effect method whereby comparatives are not restated and the cumulative impact of adjustments is recognised in the balance sheet at the date of initial application.
The Groups revised accounting policy for revenue from insurance broking activities has been provided in Note 2 and transition disclosures are provided in Note 35.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 The Group early adopted IFRS 16 and implemented this from 1 January 2018 applying the accounting requirements to all leases and contracts containing leases entered into from 1 January 2018.
For contracts entered into before 1 January 2018, the Group applied IFRS 16 accounting provisions to contracts that had already been recognised as operating leases under IAS 17 Leases IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease IFRIC 4, in accordance with the transition provisions.
The Group has elected to apply the exemption in respect of short term and low value leases as these are not material to the Group.
IFRS 16 implements a single comprehensive lease accounting model for lessees, whereby lessees recognise leases on the balance sheet.
At the commencement of a lease, or contract containing a lease, the Group recognises a right of use asset and alease liability on the balance sheet.
Subsequently, the asset is depreciated and interest is recognised on the liability.
The Groups lease contracts are primarily for the use of property and computer hardware.
On transition, the Group used a modified retrospective method whereby comparatives have not been restated and the cumulative impact of opening balance adjustments is recognised in retained earnings at the date of initial application.
The Groups revised accounting policy for leases has been provided in Note 2 and transition disclosures are provided in Note 35.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share based payment IFRS 2 Classification and measurement The amendments to IFRS 2 clarify the measurement basis for cash settled share based payments, share based payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations, and the accounting for modifications that change an award from cash-settled to equity-settled.
These amendments do not have a significant impact on the Groups accounting for its share based payment schemes.
IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration IFRIC 22 IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration was effective from 1 January 2018.
The Interpretation covers foreign currency transactions when an entity recognises a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration before the entity recognises the related asset, expense or income.
Implementation of IFRIC 22 did not have a material impact on the Group.
IFRS developments The following accounting standards and amendments to IFRS have been issued by the IASB but are not yet effective: Amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 On 3 November 2017, the EU endorsed Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, permitting entities with a predominance of insurance activities to defer the implementation of IFRS 9 to align with the implementation of IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts.
The Group satisfies the exemption criteria within IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, as the Group does not carry out any significant activities unconnected to insurance, and has applied this temporary exemption.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 IFRS 9 sets out comprehensive requirements relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The standard was endorsed by the EU on 22 November 2016 and is effective from 1 January 2018 unless the amendments to IFRS 4 that are discussed above are applied.
The Group has applied these amendments and deferred application of IFRS 9, together with any subsequent amendments, in line with IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 126 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued IFRS developments continued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts IFRS 17 The IASB issued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts on 18 May 2017.
IFRS 17 provides a comprehensive framework for accounting for insurance contracts and it is anticipated to impact the treatment and measurement of income, expenses, assets and liabilities arising from insurance contracts.
The standard is effective from 1 January 2021, subject to endorsement.
In November 2018 the IASB proposed a one year delay to the date of adoption, if approved, this will delay the effective date to 1January 2022.
Management are currently in the process of reviewing the accounting implications of IFRS 17 alongside IFRS 9 and assessing the impact of proposed changes on current accounting practice whilst also considering the ongoing discussions between the IASB and EFRAG which could result in further changes to the published standards and amendments.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments IFRIC 23 In June 2017, the IASB published IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments which provides additional guidance on the application of IAS 12 Income Taxes.
The standard is effective for annual reporting beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and has been endorsed by the EU.
The adoption of these amendments is not currently expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Accounting policies Revenue recognition Insurance premiums, reinsurance and profit commission Premiums related to insurance contracts are recognised as revenue, gross of commissions and net of insurance premium taxes proportionally over the period of cover provided.
Premiums with an inception date after the period end are held in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in deferred income.
Outstanding premiums from customers at the year end are recognised within insurance receivables.
Premiums ceded to reinsurers are recognised in profit or loss in the same period as the related direct insurance business and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract held.
Under certain reinsurance contracts, profit commission may become receivable or payable in respect of a particular underwriting year dependent on the difference between the ultimate loss ratio and the loss ratio threshold set out in the contract.
Profit commission receivable or payable at each reporting date is recognised based on the estimated ultimate loss ratio for that underwriting year at the reporting date.
Any movement on the profit commission receivable or payable in the period is recognised in profit or loss within reinsurance commissions.
Other reinsurance commissions are recognised in profit or loss within reinsurance commissions in the period to which they relate.
Revenue from contracts with customers Revenue from contracts with customers arises primarily from insurance broking activities which consists principally of fees and commissions relating to the arrangement of third party underwritten insurance contracts and ancillary products.
The Groups performance obligation under such contracts is to broker contracts between customers and third party underwriters or serviceproviders.
The Group satisfies its performance obligations for these contracts at a point in time: revenue from insurance brokerage activities is recognised at the point of sale to the customer and revenue from other retail income is recognised when the ad hoc service has been completed.
Revenue arising from insurance broking activities is measured on an agency basis, net of cost, at the fair value of the income receivable after adjusting for any allowance for expected future cancellation refunds.
The Group may also provide contracts for the provision of other ad hoc, point in time services to customers.
Such income is recognised when the performance obligation has been satisfied at the expected value of consideration.
Premium finance interest Premium finance interest, earned on sales where customers choose to pay in monthly instalments instead of one single, upfront payment, is recognised in profit or loss over the term of the related agreement using the effective interest method.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 127 2.
Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Investment and interest income Investment and interest income from financial assets comprises interest income and net gains and losses on certain financial assets held at fair value.
Interest income for all interest-bearing financial assets, including available for sale financial assets, is recognised in profit or loss within investment and interest income using the effective interest rate method.
Discounts Premium discounts on policies underwritten by parties external to the Group are deducted from fees and commission within other revenue.
Premium discounts for policies underwritten by the Group are deducted from gross written premiums and are recognised proportionally over the period of cover provided.
Other discounts on revenue are deducted from the revenue streams to which they relate.
Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets Claims liabilities Gross outstanding claims liabilities are recognised at the value of expected future payments relating to claims incurred at the reporting date.
The expected future payments include those in relation to claims reported but not yet paid or not yet paid in full, and claims incurred but not reported IBNR.
The liabilities are not discounted to present value, except for periodic payment orders PPOs.
PPOs are awarded as a result of certain large bodily injury claims made under insurance contracts.
Such awards are generally for a fixed instalment over an indeterminate time period.
Claims settled, or expected to be settled, by means of a PPO are recognised at the present value of expected future cash flows of the award granted over the expected term of the PPO, and are recognised immediately when the award is considered probable.
Discounting is implicit within these reserving calculations at each period end for each expected PPO.
While the Directors consider that the gross outstanding claims liabilities and the related reinsurance assets are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the amount that claims liabilities ultimately settle at will vary as a result of subsequent information and events and may result in significant adjustments to the amounts recognised.
Adjustments to the amounts of outstanding claims liabilities established in prior years are reflected in profit or loss for the period in which the adjustments are made.
The methods used, and the estimates made, are peer reviewed quarterly and subject to biannual independent reviews.
Reinsurance contracts Contracts entered into under which the Group is compensated for losses on insurance contracts are classified as reinsurance contracts held.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts consist of short term balances due from reinsurers, recognised as reinsurance receivables: and longer term receivables that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related reinsured insurance contracts, recognised as reinsurance assets.
Reinsurance assets are measured consistently with the amounts recognised for the associated reinsured insurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance assets are not discounted to present value, except those relating to PPOs, in line with the underlying liabilities.
Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable to reinsurers under reinsurance contracts held and are recognised when due.
Amounts recoverable from or payable to reinsurers are measured in a manner that is consistent with the amounts recognised for the associated provision for insurance contract liabilities and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract held.
The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on an annual basis.
If there is objective evidence that the reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset to its recoverable amount and recognises that impairment loss in profit or loss.
Where obligations with reinsurers are commuted, the related reinsurance assets and liabilities are settled in the period in which the commutation agreement is signed, on the basis that the reinsurer is discharged from all obligations relating to the contract.
Any gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss in the same period.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 128 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets continued Co-insurance contracts Contracts entered into under which the Group shares the risk with a co-insurance partner at inception of the policy are classified as co-insurance contracts held.
Where the Group is the secondary co-insurer, the Group only recognises its share of the premium as an insurance receivable and related claims liability.
Where the Group acts as the lead co-insurer, the gross premium is recognised as an insurance receivable, with a related co-insurance payable to the co-insurer.
The Group recognises co-insurance premiums and claims liabilities in the profit or loss in the period to which they relate.
Unearned premiums reserve Premiums on policies with an inception date before the period end but with unexpired risks after the period end are held in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the unearned premiums reserve within insurance contract liabilities.
The gross unearned premiums reserve and the reserve for unearned premiums ceded to reinsurers are presented separately.
A review of the carrying amount of the unearned premiums reserve is conducted at each reporting date.
If current estimates of the present value of the expected future cash flows relating to future claims arising from the rights and obligations under current insurance contracts exceed the unearned premiums reserve less related costs including deferred acquisition costs, then the unearned premiums reserve is deemed to be deficient.
The test is performed at the level of a portfolio of contracts that are subject to broadly similar risks and that are managed together as a single portfolio.
If any deficiency arises from the test, first an impairment of deferred acquisition costs is recognised in profit or loss, and then if necessary an unexpired risks reserve is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, through profit or loss.
Any movement on that reserve is recognised in profit or loss.
Salvage and subrogation recoveries Certain insurance contracts permit the Group to salvage recoveries through the sale of property acquired in settling a claim.
The Group may also have the right to subrogation recoveries, where third parties are pursued for the payment of costs.
Salvage and subrogation recoveries, gross of any amounts which fall under reinsurance contracts held, are included in insurance and other receivables and the corresponding reinsurance amounts arising from reinsurance contracts are included in insurance and other payables.
Salvage recoveries are recognised at the amount that can be reasonably recovered from the disposal of the property.
Subrogation reimbursements are recognised at the amount that can be reasonably expected to be recovered from action against the liable third party.
Deferred acquisition costs Costs that are directly related to the acquisition of new insurance contracts underwritten by the Group are recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as deferred acquisition costs.
They are subsequently charged to the statement of profit or loss evenly over the 12 month coverage period of the related insurance contract, in line with recognition of the corresponding premiums.
Acquisition costs incurred obtaining customers with an insurance contract underwritten by an external insurer are initially recognised within deferred acquisition costs and are then subsequently charged in the statement of profit or loss at each annual renewal date over the expected life of the customer relationship.
Claims handling expenses The Group accrues for claims handling expenses incurred in processing and settling all incurred claims that remain outstanding at the reporting date, including those not yet reported.
The liability, which is not discounted for the time value of money, is determined based on past claims handling experience and is reported within insurance and other payables in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Claims handling expenses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss within other expenses as the claims are incurred.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 129 2.
Accounting policies continued Employee benefits Pension contributions The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
The amount charged to profit or loss in respect of pension costs is the amount of contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Group has no obligation to make any further payments to the plans other than the contributions due.
Scheme assets are held separately from the Group in an independently administered fund.
Share based payments The Group operates equity settled share based payment schemes under which participants may receive free share awards or nil cost options, depending on the scheme.
Awards may have service and performance conditions attached.
The fair value of a share based payment award is determined at grant date and expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase recognised directly in equity.
Expected vesting in respect of both service conditions and non-market performance conditions is reviewed annually and adjustments are made retrospectively to the cumulative expense recognised.
Non-trading items Non-trading items are expenses or earnings, and the related tax impacts thereof, which the Directors believe are not representative of the underlying activities of the Group and have therefore been presented separately in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
These include expenses incurred in the course of the Goldman Sachs investment on 8 January 2014.
Finance costs The Groups finance costs comprise interest payable on financial liabilities held by the Group.
Interest payable on financial liabilities is recognised using the effective interest method and includes amortisation of directly attributable transaction costs.
Taxation Income tax on the result for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, items recognised in other comprehensive income or items recognised directly in equity.
Current taxation expense is the expected income tax payable on the taxable profit for the period, using tax rates applicable and any adjustment to income tax payable in respect of previous financial periods.
Deferred taxation expense is the change in deferred income tax assets and liabilities between the reporting periods.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance sheet method for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
A deferred income tax liability is recognised for all taxable temporary differences except when they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred income tax is also not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Goodwill Goodwill is the difference between the fair value of the consideration transferred in a business combination and the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the business combination.
Any acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units CGUs.
Goodwill is considered to have an indefinite useful economic life and is tested for impairment annually.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 130 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Intangible assets Software Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Purchased computer software is initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of consideration transferred plus directly attributable costs incurred in order to prepare the asset for its intended use.
Internally developed computer software is only recognised as an asset when the costs can be measured reliably, completion is technically and financially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and there is intention to use or sell the asset.
Other research and development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Software is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
On derecognition, any gain or loss arising is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item.
This is recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition.
Brands and customer relationships Brands and customer relationships are recognised on acquisition at fair value and are subsequently measured using the historical cost method their fair value on acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation Amortisation is provided on intangible assets at rates calculated to write off the cost of the assets less their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method and is recognised in profit or loss.
Expected useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed at each period end and, where necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
The expected useful economic lives of intangible assets are as follows: Software 310 years Brands 8 years Customer relationships 5 years Work in progress Work in progress includes intangible assets in the course of development which are considered to be eligible for capitalisation but which have not yet reached the state where they are ready for their intended use.
As such no amortisation has yet been charged on these assets.
Property and equipment The Group has chosen to value property using the revaluation model.
Properties are initially recognised at cost and subsequent to initial recognition properties are carried at their revalued amount, which is the fair value at the date of revaluation less subsequent depreciation and impairment losses.
Property is revalued annually using level 3 inputs as defined in Note 2 Fairvalues, with independent expert valuations being performed every five years.
Revaluation surpluses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Upon disposal of a property, any revaluation surplus is recognised directly in retained earnings and is not reclassified to profit or loss.
Revaluations resulting in a reduction to fair value are initially offset against the revaluation surplus and any excess is immediately recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss.
Equipment, consisting of fixtures, fittings, office equipment, computer equipment and leasehold improvements, is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost is the fair value of consideration provided plus incremental costs incurred to bring an asset to the condition and location necessary for its intended use.
Costs incurred subsequent to the initial production of the asset are capitalised where they are deemed to have improved theoriginal.
Depreciation is provided on all property and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, or fair value in the case of property, of the assets less their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method and is recognised in profit or loss.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 131 2.
Accounting policies continued Property and equipment continued The expected useful economic lives of property and equipment are as follows: Property 50 years Property and leasehold improvements 410 years Computer equipment 25 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment 35 years Expected useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and, where necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
Property and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Impairment Carrying amounts of intangible assets and property and equipment are reviewed at each reporting date to determine if there are indicators of impairment.
Where these exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the assets value in use.
Goodwill has an indefinite life and is tested annually for impairment.
Impairment exists where the recoverable amount of the CGU is lower than the combined carrying amount of net assets and goodwill allocated to the CGU.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is the higher of the fair value of the CGU less costs to sell and the CGUs value in use.
Fair value is the price that would be received in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable market participants.
Value in use is the present value of expected future pre-tax cashflows attributable to the asset or group of assets.
Where an assets or a group of assets recoverable amount is less than its carrying amount, the difference is recognised as an impairment loss in profit or loss, except in relation to property which is carried at revalued amount where any impairment loss is first allocated against any revaluation surplus in equity and any excess recorded in profit or loss.
Leases A contract is, or contains, a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
At the commencement of a lease or contract containing a lease, the Group recognises a right of use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet.
The Group initially measures a right of use asset at cost comprising the corresponding lease liability adjusted for any payments made at or before the commencement date plus any initial direct costs incurred and any dismantling costs, if applicable.
Subsequently, from commencement date, a right of use asset is depreciated using the straight line method to profit or loss over the lease term or usage term.
Right of use assets are reported in the balance sheet within property and equipment.
A lease liability is initially measured and recognised at the present value of outstanding lease payments at the lease commencement date, using the Groups incremental borrowing rate in most instances: unless the interest rate implicit in the lease can be readily determined, in which case this is used instead.
Lease liabilities are reported in insurance and other payables in the balance sheet.
Financial assets The Groups financial assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, financial assets held at fair value and insurance and other receivables.
For measurement purposes the Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: financial assets classified as available for sale: and loans and receivables.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 132 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets continued Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets are classified as fair value through profit or loss if they are classified as held for trading or if the Group manages such investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy.
Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss are initially measured at fair value being the cost of acquisition excluding transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reportingdate.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of these financial assets are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognised on a trade date basis, being the date on which a commitment is made to purchase or sell the asset.
Transaction costs for purchases and sales are expensed as incurred in profit or loss.
Available for sale financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are classified as available for sale when they are not classified as either loans and receivables or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Available for sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date, with unrealised gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in other reserves until the point of disposal, when accumulated gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Interest income or expense calculated using the effective interest rate on available for sale financial assets is recognised in the profit or loss.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and include cash and cash equivalents.
Such assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less accumulated impairment losses.
Insurance and other receivables are classed as loans and receivables.
Insurance receivables include amounts not yet due in respect of insurance premiums where the policyholder has elected to pay in instalments over the term of the policy.
Derecognition of financial assets Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive future cash flows from the assets have expired, or have been transferred, and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Any residual gains or losses resulting from the derecognition of the asset are recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition.
Any unrealised gains or losses on available for sale financial assets previously accumulated in other reserves are reclassified to profit or loss in the period of derecognition.
Impairment of financial assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset.
Objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group about events such as: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or debtor: a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments: or the probability that the issuer or debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 133 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets continued Impairment of financial assets continued If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss for theperiod.
When reductions in the fair value of available for sale financial assets are considered to be impairment losses, losses accumulated in other reserves are reclassified to profit or loss.
The amount reclassified is the difference between the value on initial recognition, net of any principal repayment and amortisation, and the current fair value of the asset, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss on financial assets, other than available for sale financial assets, reverses, and the reverse can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such as improved profitability of the debtor, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss in the period.
If the fair value of an impaired available for sale financial asset subsequently increases, the loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that it offsets impairment losses previously recognised: otherwise, it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities The Groups financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings and insurance and other payables.
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method with interest accrued in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in insurance and other payables.
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet only when there is a current unconditional and legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts in all circumstances including the default by, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group and all counterparties, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Cash and cash equivalents The Groups cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand and in bank, investments in highly liquid money market funds and other short term deposits that are redeemable within 90 days.
Insurance intermediary assets and liabilities Receivables and payables arising from insurance broking transactions are shown as assets and liabilities in recognition of the fact that the insurance broker has contractual rights to economic inflows from customers and obligations to third party insurers upon placement of insurance products with customers.
Receivables are recognised when the Group provides financing to customers for instalment premiums payable to third party insurers.
Payables arise where the Group has an obligation to remit premiums received to third party insurers.
Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets, or to exchange financial assets or liabilities under potentially unfavourable conditions.
Where such an obligation exists, the share capital is recognised as a liability notwithstanding the legal form.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are recognised, net of tax effect, as a deduction from share premium to the extent that there is sufficient share premium to do so.
Dividends Dividends are recognised directly in equity when approved and payable.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 134 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Fair values Property and financial assets carried at fair value are analysed by their level within the fair value hierarchy based on the observability of inputs into the valuation.
Such assets are categorised as follows: level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The level in which financial assets carried at fair value have been classified in their entirety is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
Where assets are not traded sufficiently regularly for the sales to be classified as occurring on active market, or are based on observable market data rather than on actual transactions, they are classified as level 2.
Assets are valued by reference to the most recent observable market trade unless there is evidence of impairment.
Judgements in applying accounting policies and critical accounting estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the assets and liabilities recognised as at the reporting date and the income and expense recognised during the reporting period, as well as the content of any disclosures.
Although these judgements, estimates and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, events and actions, actual results may differ from these judgements and assumptions.
Judgements The judgements that have been applied in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements that could have a significant effect on the amounts recognised are as follows: Taxation uncertainties In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, judgement is required in assessing the likely outcome, or range of outcomes of uncertain tax liabilities and contingent liabilities, and what could be considered probable or remote, to determine whether assets or liabilities should be recognised under the relevant accounting standards.
Management review these judgements at least annually and obtain external expert advice and opinions to inform and support their decisions.
Additional information regarding these judgements are disclosed in Notes 15 and 34.
Critical accounting estimates The major sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Claims liabilities The estimation of liabilities arising from claims made under insurance contracts and the related reinsurance recoveries are the Groups most critical accounting estimates.
Estimates, and the resulting loss ratios, are informed by detailed actuarial analysis and reflect a balanced assessment of risk and probability, resulting in a sufficiently prudent liability to give the Directors confidence that the Group is adequately provisioned to meet its future liabilities.
The actuarial best estimate of outstanding claims includes the estimate of expenses to be incurred in settling claims and a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure that it has appropriate information regarding claims exposure.
However, given the uncertainty in establishing claims provisions, it is likely that the final outcome will prove to be different from the original estimated liability.
In order to reduce the risk of underestimation of these liabilities, a margin is maintained over and above the Groups internal actuarial best estimate of outstanding claims liabilities.
In calculating the estimated cost of unpaid claims, the Group uses a variety of estimation techniques, including statistical analysis of historic experience, which assumes that the development pattern of the current claims will be consistent with pastexperience.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 135 3.
Judgements in applying accounting policies and critical accounting estimates continued Critical accounting estimates continued Claims liabilities continued A component of these estimation techniques is the estimation of the cost of notified but not paid claims.
In estimating the cost of these, the Group has regard to the claim circumstances as reported, information available from loss adjusters and information on the cost of settling claims with similar characteristics in previous years.
The estimation of claims incurred but not reported IBNR is generally subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the cost of settling claims already notified to the Group, where information about the claim event is available.
Classes of business where the IBNR proportion of the total outstanding claims liabilities is high will typically display greater variations between the initial estimates and the final outcomes because of the greater degree of difficulty of estimating those reserves.
Classes of business where claims are typically reported relatively quickly after the claim event will tend to display lower levels of volatility.
Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the required level of claims liabilities.
This provides greater understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The projections given by the various methodologies also assist in setting the range of possible outcomes.
The most appropriate estimation technique is selected, taking into account the characteristics of the business class and the extent of the development of each accident year.
Allowance is made for changes or uncertainties which may create distortions in the underlying statistics or which might cause the cost of unsettled claims to increase or reduce when compared with the cost of previously settled claims, including: changes in Group processes which might accelerate the development and or recording of paid or incurred claims compared with the statistics from previous years: changes in the legal environment: the effect of inflation from both increases in severity and frequency: changes in the mix of business: the impact of large losses and likelihood of periodic payment orders: and movements in industry benchmarks.
Short tail claims, such as straightforward property damage cases, are normally reported soon after the incident and are generally settled within the months following the reported incident.
Hence any development on short tail claims is normally limited to the period in which the incident occurred and the following period.
For long tail claims, such as the more complicated bodily injury cases, it can be more than one period before a claim is reported and several periods before it is settled, hence the original estimation involves greater uncertainty and it is inherently more likely that there will be a greater disparity between the original and current estimates.
It is for these long tail claims that the development of the outstanding claims liability generally occurs over a number of periods.
Large third party injury claims typically involve costs that relate to future periods, such as covering the loss of future earnings or the ongoing cost of care, and will either be settled through a lump sum settlement or through a periodic payment order PPO.
Such claims, including PPOs, are generally assessed individually, either being measured on a case by case basis or projected separately in order to reduce the possible distortive effect of the development and incidence.
Where a claim has been settled through a PPO or it is expected that a PPO will be awarded, the liability is calculated using discounted cash flows and assumptions of mortality and real interest rates over the lifetime of the claimant.
The personal injury discount rate or Ogden rate is a rate set by the UK Governments Lord Chancellor that is used by the Courts to calculate lump sum personal injury compensation payments.
The Civil Liability Act received Royal Assent on 20 December 2018 thereby legislating the determination of the Ogden rate based on a reference investment portfolio.
This process is underway and there is a degree of uncertainty around the final outcome.
Should the Ogden rate be set within the 0% to 1% range, as originally guided by the Ministry of Justice, the possible range of outcomes would not result in a significant adjustment to the reported net insurance claims liabilities and net claims cost recorded in the financial statements.
The development of claims from prior periods is set out in Note 21.
Given the uncertainty in establishing the outstanding claims liabilities, it is likely that the final outcome will be different from the original liability established.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 136 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Judgements in applying accounting policies and critical accounting estimates continued Critical accounting estimates continued Claims liabilities continued The following table sets out the adverse impact on profit after tax and total equity that would result from a 1% deterioration in the ultimate loss ratio used for each accident year for which material amounts remain outstanding: Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2016 2017 2018 Impact of 1% change m 4.7 6.0 7.4 8.1 Reinsurance assets The Group uses both non proportional excess of loss reinsurance and quota share reinsurance arrangements.
The calculation of reinsurance recoveries is intrinsically linked to the calculation of outstanding claims liabilities, and requires the same estimation processes.
Insurance contracts risk management A key risk from operating in the general insurance industry is the exposure to insurance risk arising from underwriting insurance contracts.
Insurance contracts transfer risk to the insurer by indemnifying the customers against adverse effects arising from the occurrence of specified uncertain future events.
The risk is that the actual amount of claims to be paid in relation to contracts will be different from the amount estimated at the time the contract was designed and priced, which is before the losses relating to it are known.
Hence the insurance business involves inherent uncertainty.
A fundamental part of the Groups overall risk management strategy is the effective governance and management of risks that impact the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from insurance contracts.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk A disciplined approach to risk management is adopted in accordance with strict protocols.
It is believed that this approach provides the greatest long term likelihood of being able to meet the objectives of all stakeholders, including customers, lenders and shareholders.
The risk management activities can be broadly separated into underwriting acceptance and pricing of risk, reinsurance, claims management and investment management.
The objective of these risk management functions is to enhance the longer term financial performance of the overall insurance operations.
Acceptance of risk The Board of Directors of the Groups Underwriting subsidiary, Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL approves the underwriting and pricing policy, and reviews and monitors the underwriting and pricing standards and strategies.
AICLs underwriting strategy is focused on a sophisticated data driven approach to pricing and underwriting through: collating and analysing comprehensive data from customers: tight control over the pricing guidelines in order to target profitable business lines: and fast and flexible response to market trends.
The underwriting of large numbers of uncorrelated individual risks reduces the variability in overall claims experience.
Management information systems are maintained that provide up to date, reliable data on the risks to which the business is exposed at any point in time.
Efforts are made, including by the use of plain language policy terms, to ensure there is no misalignment between what customers perceive will be paid when a policy is initially entered and what is actually paid when a claim is made.
Pricing Statistical models are used which combine historical and projected data to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns.
The data used includes historical pricing and claims analysis as well as current conditions and developments in the market.
All data used is subject to rigorous verification and reconciliation processes.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 137 4.
Insurance contracts risk management continued Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk continued Claims management Initial claim determination is managed by claims handlers with the requisite degree of experience and competence with the assistance of, where appropriate, a loss adjuster or other party with specialist knowledge.
It is the Groups policy to respond to and settle claims quickly whenever possible and to pay claims fairly, based on customers full entitlement in line with consumer and regulator expectations.
When PPOs are awarded as a result of claims made under insurance contracts, there is a risk that these may be of a high value and for a long term.
As such, management performs detailed reviews of expected PPOs throughout the claims process to identify the expected ultimate value of such claims as early as possible and reserve appropriately.
Reinsurance contracts Reinsurance contracts are used both to limit exposure to claims pervasively across the business, and specifically to limit exposure to large single claims and the accumulation of claims that arise from the same event or the accumulation of similar events.
The Group uses excess of loss reinsurance arrangements and the effect of such arrangements is that the Group should not suffer net motor insurance losses before quota share arrangements in excess of 0.5m on any individual loss event between 1 January 2003 and 31 December 2014 subject to an aggregate deductible of 5.0m in 2014, and in excess of 1.0m on any individual loss event from 1 January 2015 onwards.
Additionally, the Group has a 50% quota share arrangement in place, applicable on all motor insurance policies incepted by AICL since 1 January 2011.
The Group also uses excess of loss reinsurance arrangements for home insurance policies, the effect of which is that the Group does not suffer total net home insurance losses of more than 0.5m up to a cap of 9.3m liability per event on any individual event between 1 January 2016 and 31 March 2018 and in excess of 1.0m up to a cap of 19.3m on any individual loss event from 1 April 2018 onwards.
The use of reinsurance contracts does not discharge AICLs liability as primary insurer.
If a reinsurer fails to pay a claim, AICL remains liable for the payment to the policyholder.
As part of managing reinsurance contract risk and controlling exposure to reinsurance counterparty default, the creditworthiness of reinsurers is considered on a quarterly basis by reviewing their financial strength.
In addition, management assesses the creditworthiness of all reinsurers and intermediaries by reviewing credit grades provided by rating agencies and other publicly available financial information.
The recent payment history of reinsurers is also used to update the reinsurance purchasing strategy.
The credit ratings of the Groups reinsurers are disclosed in Note 25.
Investment management Assets and liabilities are managed so as to effectively match the expected pattern of claims payments with the assets that are held to back outstanding claims liabilities.
The mix of investment between cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed to ensure that the Group has the ability to meet expected and unexpected requirements for cash.
See Note 25 for further details.
Terms and conditions of insurance contracts The terms and conditions attached to insurance contracts affect the level of insurance risk accepted.
Insurance contracts written are entered into on a standard form basis.
Insurance contracts are entered into on an annual basis and at the time of entering into a contract certain terms and conditions are negotiable or, in the case of renewals, renegotiable.
There are no embedded derivatives that are separately recognised from a host insurance contract.
Concentrations of insurance risk The exposure to concentrations of insurance risk is mitigated by a portfolio which is diversified across many different individual customers living in different parts of the UK.
Therefore, the Directors do not believe there are significant concentrations of insurance risk.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 138 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Segmental reporting Segments The Group has two reportable trading segments and a corporate head office, as described below.
These segments represent the principal split of business that is regularly reported to the Groups Board.
Underwriting The Underwriting segment comprises the Underwriting business which is based in Gibraltar.
It includes AICL and its investment in Conquest House Limited.
The principal activity of AICL is the underwriting of general insurance, predominantly private car insurance in the UK.
Since 2015, AICL has underwritten UK home policies under a co-insurance arrangement both as secondary insurer, and from 2017 as lead insurer.
Conquest House Limited owns property which is utilised by the Group.
Retail The principal activity of the Retail segment is the provision of insurance intermediary services to the private car, van, bike and home markets in the UK through the UK trading subsidiary Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL, much of which is underwritten by the Underwriting segment.
Intermediary services are also provided on behalf of a panel of external third party insurers.
Corporate The Corporate segment comprises the combined results of the Groups head office companies, whose primary activities are as holding and finance companies.
Consolidation adjustments Consolidation adjustments comprise the adjustments required to consolidate the Groups results under IFRS, including the elimination of intercompany balances, revenue between operating segments and investments in subsidiaries.
Transactions between the Groups two reportable segments and corporate head office are recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policies and are carried out at arms length.
Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit, is a non-IFRS measure used by management and represents profit before taxation expense, finance costs, amortisation and depreciation and non-trading costs.
Segment performance The tables below present the Groups results by reportable segment.
Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m Net earned premiums 490.8 50.1 440.7 Other revenue 36.4 331.6 0.4 59.7 308.7 Investment and interest income 6.2 1.3 0.5 7.0 Net revenue 533.4 332.9 0.4 110.3 756.4 Net claims incurred 330.6 330.6 Other expenses 130.9 208.1 7.0 110.8 235.2 Adjusted operating profit 71.9 124.8 6.6 0.5 190.6 Amortisation and depreciation 29.0 Finance costs 8.7 Profit before tax 152.9 Included within other revenue is 115.8m recognised by the Retail segment and 0.4m recognised by the Corporate segment, arising from transactions with the Underwriting segment.
Other revenue recognised by the Underwriting segment includes 0.4m arising from transactions with the Retail segment.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 139 5.
Segmental reporting continued Segment performance continued Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m Net earned premiums 448.8 38.7 410.1 Other revenue 37.1 335.3 0.3 74.0 298.7 Investment and interest income 6.7 0.1 6.8 Net revenue 492.6 335.4 0.3 112.7 715.6 Net claims incurred 299.5 299.5 Other expenses 121.7 220.4 7.2 117.3 232.0 Adjusted operating profit 71.4 115.0 6.9 4.6 184.1 Amortisation and depreciation 27.0 Finance costs 8.1 Profit before tax 149.0 Included within other revenue recognised by the Retail segment is 112.3m arising from transactions with the Underwriting segment.
Other revenue recognised by the Underwriting segment includes 0.4m arising from transactions with the Retailsegment.
Segment assets and liabilities The tables below present the Groups assets and liabilities by reportable segment as at each reporting date.
Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m Goodwill 1.9 468.1 470.0 Intangible assets 75.2 5.3 80.5 Investments in subsidiaries 1,275.7 1,275.7 Investments 4.2 4.2 Property and equipment 1.2 19.4 2.1 22.7 Deferred income tax assets 0.6 6.0 6.6 Reinsurance assets 1,212.6 0.5 1,212.1 Deferred acquisition costs 30.3 46.8 42.6 34.5 Prepayments 1.0 7.1 0.1 0.6 7.6 Insurance and other receivables 451.2 315.8 9.3 313.0 444.7 Financial assets at fair value 558.0 558.0 Cash and cash equivalents 86.7 55.9 3.4 146.0 Total assets 2,345.2 522.1 1,270.5 1,155.1 2,982.7 Loans and borrowings 244.3 244.3 Insurance contract liabilities 1,846.6 25.8 1,820.8 Insurance and other payables 192.6 370.8 2.5 322.5 243.4 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.1 0.6 7.8 8.5 Current tax liabilities 3.2 11.4 0.1 14.7 Total liabilities 2,042.5 382.8 246.8 340.4 2,331.7 Total equity 302.7 139.3 1,023.7 814.7 651.0 Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 140 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Segmental reporting continued Segment assets and liabilities continued Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m Goodwill 1.9 468.1 470.0 Intangible assets 60.4 27.0 87.4 Investments in subsidiaries 1,274.2 1,274.2 Investments 4.2 4.2 Property and equipment 1.7 8.6 3.9 14.2 Deferred income tax assets 2.5 0.7 3.4 6.6 Reinsurance assets 1,084.8 2.9 1,087.7 Deferred acquisition costs 30.8 0.3 31.1 Prepayments 0.5 5.3 0.1 0.6 5.3 Insurance and other receivables 410.4 307.2 12.9 309.5 421.0 Financial assets at fair value 539.6 539.6 Cash and cash equivalents 90.5 59.5 4.6 154.6 Total assets 2,162.5 445.4 1,292.5 1,082.9 2,817.5 Loans and borrowings 272.0 272.0 Insurance contract liabilities 1,688.4 22.8 1,665.6 Insurance and other payables 187.2 360.3 2.2 309.9 239.8 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.1 15.9 16.0 Current tax liabilities 2.3 9.0 0.1 11.2 Total liabilities 1,878.0 369.3 274.2 316.9 2,204.6 Total equity 284.5 76.1 1,018.3 766.0 612.9 Underwritings investments consist of a property, Conquest House, which is leased to another Group company.
This is classified as property and equipment in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Insurance premiums Year ended Year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Written premiums 958.3 522.8 435.5 930.8 489.2 441.6 Unearned premiums reserve brought forward at start oftheperiod 472.3 247.5 224.8 397.6 204.3 193.3 Unearned premiums reserve carried forward at end of theperiod 480.7 261.1 219.6 472.3 247.5 224.8 Total earned premiums 949.9 509.2 440.7 856.1 446.0 410.1 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 141 7.
Other revenue Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Fees and commission 101.2 101.3 Ancillary product income 49.6 50.6 Premium finance interest 104.0 94.4 Reinsurance commissions 35.3 37.0 Other retail income 18.6 15.4 Total other revenue 308.7 298.7 Fees and commission on panel providers, ancillary product income and other retail income are recognised as revenue from contracts with customers as defined by IFRS 15.
Investment and interest income Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Net fair value losses gains on financial assets at fair value 1.3 0.4 Interest income 8.3 6.4 Total investment and interest income 7.0 6.8 9.
Claims incurred Year ended Year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Current period 789.1 453.8 335.3 749.5 446.9 302.6 Prior periods 14.5 9.8 4.7 37.4 40.5 3.1 Total claims incurred 774.6 444.0 330.6 786.9 487.4 299.5 Current period claims relate to claim events that occurred in the current year.
Prior period claims relate to the reassessment of claim events that occurred in previous years.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 142 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Expenses Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Profit before taxation is stated after charging: Operating lease rentals buildings 1.8 Employee benefits Note 13 95.6 92.3 VAT refund in respect of prior periods 14.6 Auditor remuneration 0.6 0.6 Other administration and distribution costs 79.0 72.4 Other expenses 160.6 167.1 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 18 24.0 24.4 Depreciation of property and equipment Note 19 5.0 2.6 Amortisation and depreciation 29.0 27.0 On 19 January 2018, the First-tier Tribunal proceedings found in favour of Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL and concluded that certain input VAT incurred by HISL in relation to insurance intermediary services can be recovered.
As a result, 14.6m of additional recoverable input VAT in respect of prior periods has been recognised in the current period as a reduction in other expenses.
Non-trading items Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Non-operational amortisation of intangibles recognised on acquisition 21.5 21.5 Non-trading amortisation 21.5 21.5 Non-cash unwind of fair value adjustments arising on business combination 0.2 0.3 Non-trading finance costs 0.2 0.3 Tax effect of the above non-trading items 3.8 3.9 Total non-trading items 17.9 17.9 Non-trading items are defined as expenses or earnings, together with the related tax impacts, that are not representative of the underlying activities of the Group.
These include Group reorganisation and transaction expenses, and the impact of the Goldman Sachs investment on 8 January 2014.
This was accounted for as a business combination, requiring assets and liabilities to be fair valued.
The amortisation of intangibles and the unwind of fair value adjustments are the result of these fair value adjustments.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 143 12.
Auditor remuneration Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Fees for audit services Group 0.1 0.1 Subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Total fees for audit services 0.4 0.4 Fees for non-audit services Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 Total fees for non-audit services 0.2 0.2 The total amount paid for non-audit work during the year was 0.2m 2017: 0.2m and was for assurance services connected to KPMGs role as statutory Auditor including the review of the Interim Results, reasonable assurance review of the economic balance sheet and the Solvency Capital Requirement formula, and services relating to listing of the 3% senior bonds.
Employee benefits Included in other operating expenses were the following employee benefits: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Salaries 83.1 76.8 Social security charges 7.1 9.1 Defined contribution pension plan costs 2.1 1.6 Share based payment charge 3.3 4.8 Total employee benefits 95.6 92.3 Staff numbers including Directors The average number of full-time equivalent staff was as follows: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Operational staff 2,655 2,383 Support staff 200 202 Total staff 2,855 2,585 Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 144 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Employee benefits continued Key management personnel Key management personnel compensation comprised the following: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Short term employee benefits 4.7 5.4 Post employment benefits 0.3 0.3 Share based payments 1.3 3.2 Total key management personnel compensation 6.3 8.9 Directors emoluments Information relating to Directors emoluments is disclosed within the Directors remuneration report.
Finance costs Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Interest on 3% senior bonds due 2025 4.6 Interest on Revolving Credit Facility 2.5 6.8 Non-cash amortisation of loans and borrowings 1.0 0.9 Other interest expense 0.6 0.4 Total interest expense 8.7 8.1 Non-cash amortisation of loans and borrowings comprises amortisation of directly attributable transaction costs and applicable discounts, recognised under the effective interest method.
Taxation expense Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Current tax Corporation tax on profits for the year 30.7 26.3 Adjustments for prior years 0.5 0.1 Current taxation expense 30.2 26.4 Deferred tax Deferred taxation movement relating to temporary differences 7.9 3.9 Adjustments for prior years 0.2 Deferred taxation expense 7.9 4.1 Total taxation expense 22.3 22.3 The Groups tax expense mostly comprises taxation charged on the UK based Retail business profits, which attract a tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.25% and the Gibraltar based Underwriting business whose profits are taxed at 10% 2017: 10%.
The UK corporation tax rate will be reduced to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The Gibraltar rate of tax has remained at 10% and is expected to remain at this level for the foreseeable future.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 145 15.
Taxation expense continued Factors affecting total taxation expense are: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Profit before tax 152.9 149.0 Applicable tax charge at the statutory tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.25% : 29.1 28.7 Impact of different tax rate in Gibraltar: 10% 2017: 10% 5.6 6.0 Non-taxable income 1.2 0.8 Adjustment relating to prior periods 0.5 0.1 Expenses and provisions not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 0.5 Total taxation expense 22.3 22.3 For the year ended 31 December 2018 the UK Corporation tax rate applicable to the Company was 19% 31 December 2017: 19.25%.
Within the tax reconciliation, the impact of the different tax rate in Gibraltar is the difference between the UK tax rate and the Gibraltar tax rate applied to the Underwriting business profits.
Non-taxable income comprises investment income arising within the Underwriting business in Gibraltar.
Expenses and provisions not deductible for tax purposes comprises disallowed expenditure such as business entertainment expenses and certain expenditure deemed capital under tax legislation.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
Adjusted earnings per share is a non-IFRS measure calculated by dividing net income attributable to the equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
Net income is profit after tax adjusted for non-trading items including reorganisation and transaction costs, the impact of accounting for business combinations and the related tax effect.
The Directors believe this figure provides a better indication of the Groups trading performance.
Diluted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share are calculated respectively by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent, and the net income attributable to the equity holders of the parent, by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year adjusted for the dilutive impact of unvested shares and contingently issuable shares arising from the share based payment arrangements.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 146 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Earnings per share continued Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent m 130.6 126.7 Adjusted for non-trading items: Non-trading items net of taxation impact m 17.9 17.9 Net income m 148.5 144.6 Basic weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue m 656.9 657.1 Potential Ordinary Shares and contingently issuable shares m 2.2 2.5 Weighted average number of shares adjusted for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares m 659.1 659.6 Basic earnings per share 19.9p 19.3p Non-trading items net of taxation per share 2.7p 2.7p Adjusted earnings per share 22.6p 22.0p Diluted earnings per share 19.8p 19.2p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 22.5p 21.9p 17.
Goodwill The goodwill of 470.0m arose from the acquisition of Hastings Group Limited HGL by Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc HIG H on 8 January 2014 and was allocated between the Groups two CGUs, Underwriting and Retail, as follows: Underwriting Retail Total Cost m m m As at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 95.2 374.8 470.0 The recoverable amount of the two CGUs has been determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the most recent three-year financial plans approved by the Directors, discounted by the Groups pre-tax discount rate of 7.3% 2017: 6.9%.
The Directors determine financial budgets based on past performance and their expectations of market and business development.
Cash flows beyond the three year plan period are extrapolated using growth rates declining to a terminal rate of 2.0%.
As the recoverable amount of each CGU is significantly higher than the cumulative total of allocated goodwill and the carrying value of the CGUs assets, the allocated goodwill is not deemed to be impaired.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 147 18.
During the year the Group completed its implementation of Guidewire, a state of the art, integrated end to end platform for claims, broking and billing, and as such 62.0m of internally generated software was transferred from work in progress to software at the end of the year.
The internally generated Guidewire software has a remaining useful economic life of up to 10 years 2017: five years.
Management performed a review of the expected useful economic life of software during the year resulting in an increase in the maximum life from seven to 10 years.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 148 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Managements valuation and an external valuation carried out by CBRE of Conquest House during the year did not result in a change to the carrying value.
If carried at cost, property would be held at 3.6m 2017: 5.2m.
During the year a depreciation charge of 1.5m was recognised on property right of use assets and 0.8m on IT hardware right of use assets, which resulted in a net book value of 8.0m and 1.8m respectively as at 31 December 2018.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 149 20.
Deferred income tax As at Recognised Recognised As at 1 January in retained in profit 31 December 2017 earnings or loss 2017 m m m m Deferred income tax assets Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 0.8 0.2 1.0 Insurance provisions 0.1 0.1 Deferred acquisition costs 2.9 0.2 3.1 Share based payments 0.7 0.5 1.0 2.2 Claims handling provision 0.2 0.2 Total deferred income tax assets 4.5 0.5 1.6 6.6 Deferred income tax liabilities Intangible assets 8.7 3.9 4.8 Deferred acquisition costs 4.6 1.3 5.9 Insurance provisions 5.1 0.1 5.2 Revaluation of property 0.1 0.1 Total deferred income tax liabilities 18.5 2.5 16.0 As at Recognised Recognised As at 1 January in retained in profit 31 December 2018 earnings or loss 2018 m m m m Deferred income tax assets Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 1.0 0.2 1.2 Insurance provisions 0.1 0.1 Deferred acquisition costs 3.1 0.1 3.0 Share based payments 2.2 0.4 0.1 1.7 Claims handling provision 0.2 0.3 0.5 Other 0.1 0.1 Total deferred income tax assets 6.6 0.4 0.4 6.6 Deferred income tax liabilities Intangible assets 4.8 3.8 1.0 Deferred acquisition costs 5.9 4.6 1.3 Insurance provisions 5.2 0.9 6.1 Revaluation of property 0.1 0.1 Total deferred income tax liabilities 16.0 7.5 8.5 Deferred income tax assets of 1.2m have not been recognised by the Group as at 31 December 2018 in respect of tax losses 2017: 1.2m.
These tax losses do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred income tax assets have not been recognised because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise these taxlosses.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 150 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2017 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Claims incurred and reported 1,000.9 692.0 308.9 870.7 606.1 264.6 Claims incurred but not reported 339.2 259.0 80.2 322.6 234.1 88.5 Outstanding claims liabilities 1,340.1 951.0 389.1 1,193.3 840.2 353.1 Unearned premiums reserve 480.7 261.1 219.6 472.3 247.5 224.8 Total insurance contract liabilities 1,820.8 1,212.1 608.7 1,665.6 1,087.7 577.9 As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2017 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Outstanding claims liabilities brought forward at start of year 1,193.3 840.2 353.1 901.9 617.7 284.2 Claims paid 648.0 329.2 318.8 533.2 272.8 260.4 Movement in liabilities 794.8 440.0 354.8 824.6 495.3 329.3 Outstanding claims liabilities carried forward 1,340.1 951.0 389.1 1,193.3 840.2 353.1 Unearned premiums reserve brought forward at start ofyear 472.3 247.5 224.8 397.6 204.3 193.3 Deferral in period 958.3 522.8 435.5 930.8 489.2 441.6 Release in period 949.9 509.2 440.7 856.1 446.0 410.1 Unearned premiums reserve carried forward 480.7 261.1 219.6 472.3 247.5 224.8 Total insurance contract liabilities 1,820.8 1,212.1 608.7 1,665.6 1,087.7 577.9 Movement in liabilities comprises changes in outstanding claims liabilities relating to claim events in previous periods and the expected cost of current year claims.
All insurance contracts are annual policies and as such the unearned premiums reserve is released within 12 months from the reporting date.
The expected timing of the settlements for the net and gross claims liabilities are shown in Note 25.
Claims development The following table shows the development of the originally estimated gross ultimate claims liabilities relative to the current estimates of gross ultimate claims liabilities, both net of salvage and subrogation recoveries.
Claims development refers to the financial adjustment in the current accounting period relating to claims incurred in previous accounting periods because of new and more up to date information that has become available and to reflect changes in inflation.
The development is presented for each of the most recent eight accident periods and all historic periods prior to these from incorporation of the Groups underwriter in 2002 as estimated at each reporting date.
The table also shows a reconciliation of the gross outstanding claims liabilities, net of salvage and subrogation recoveries, to the gross outstanding claims liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2018.
The information is presented on an accident period basis.
The fair value acquisition adjustment relates to business combination accounting as a result of the Goldman Sachs investment Note 11.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 151 21.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued Claims development continued Year ended 31 31 31 31 31 31 31 31 Prior December December December December December December December December periods 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total m m m m m m m m m m Development At end of current year 770.0 172.1 267.0 326.4 409.5 496.2 649.8 705.3 789.1 4,585.4 One year earlier 765.7 159.8 257.6 317.1 386.9 500.7 673.4 749.5 3,810.7 Two years earlier 761.8 163.0 252.6 326.4 384.3 491.1 644.8 3,024.0 Three years earlier 765.2 170.6 243.2 312.0 369.4 451.7 2,312.1 Four years earlier 762.8 168.5 247.6 304.5 368.6 1,852.0 Five years earlier 753.4 177.1 254.0 306.4 1,490.9 Six years earlier 750.6 174.4 240.4 1,165.4 Seven years earlier 740.3 167.2 907.5 Payments to date 739.7 163.1 219.7 277.0 347.7 386.9 433.3 421.9 307.7 3,297.0 Gross outstanding claims liabilities, net of salvage and subrogation recoveries 30.3 9.0 47.3 49.4 61.8 109.3 216.5 283.4 481.4 1,288.4 Reconciliation to gross outstanding claims liabilities Anticipated salvage and subrogation recoveries 53.0 Fair value acquisition adjustment 1.3 Gross outstanding claims liabilities 1,340.1 Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 152 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued Claims development continued The following table shows the development of the outstanding claims liabilities net of both reinsurance assets and salvage and subrogation recoveries, together with a reconciliation of these to the net outstanding claims liabilities as at 31 December 2018: Year ended 31 31 31 31 31 31 31 31 Prior December December December December December December December December periods 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total m m m m m m m m m m Development At end of current year 638.3 93.0 104.3 124.9 173.7 208.0 256.9 287.5 335.3 2,221.9 One year earlier 638.3 92.9 104.1 124.7 171.3 204.3 253.2 302.6 1,891.4 Two years earlier 638.7 93.5 105.4 125.3 169.1 203.4 256.4 1,591.8 Three years earlier 641.1 94.4 104.9 125.2 165.5 200.6 1,331.7 Four years earlier 640.9 95.0 108.8 130.8 163.4 1,138.9 Five years earlier 637.8 97.4 114.6 136.4 986.2 Six years earlier 642.3 98.4 117.1 857.8 Seven years earlier 644.4 97.4 741.8 Payments to date 635.0 92.9 103.3 122.2 164.2 187.4 209.6 202.6 141.8 1,859.0 Net outstanding claims liabilities, net of salvage and subrogation recoveries 3.3 0.1 1.0 2.7 9.5 20.6 47.3 84.9 193.5 362.9 Reconciliation to net outstanding claims liabilities Anticipated salvage and subrogation recoveries 53.0 Reinsurers share of salvage and subrogation recoveries 26.2 Fair value acquisition adjustment 0.6 Net outstanding claims liabilities 389.1 Conditions and trends that have affected the development of the liabilities in the past may or may not occur in the future, and accordingly, conclusions about future results cannot necessarily be derived from the information presented in the tables above.
Deferred acquisition costs Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Deferred acquisition costs brought forward at start of year 31.1 24.2 Additions 72.2 68.0 Recognition of acquisition costs in profit or loss 68.8 61.1 Deferred acquisition costs carried forward at end of year 34.5 31.1 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 153 23.
Insurance and other receivables As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Insurance receivables 309.8 297.7 Salvage and subrogation recoveries 53.1 61.9 Reinsurance receivables 51.0 33.3 Interest receivable 7.1 7.2 Other receivables 23.7 20.9 Total insurance and other receivables 444.7 421.0 The table below analyses insurance and other receivables between current and overdue and also analyses any provisions held.
The current portion comprises balances that are normally settled within 12 months.
Overdue amounts comprise all amounts which remain uncollected after the date by which they were contractually due to be paid in full.
Net Insurance Provision insurance and other for and other receivables impairment receivables m m m As at 31 December 2018 Current 445.3 0.8 444.5 Overdue 8.2 8.0 0.2 Total 453.5 8.8 444.7 As at 31 December 2017 Current 421.5 0.7 420.8 Overdue 7.0 6.8 0.2 Total 428.5 7.5 421.0 Movements on the Groups provision for impairment are as follows: As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Provision for impairment brought forward at start of year 7.5 5.8 Utilised during the year 4.5 3.4 Impairments recognised during the year 5.8 5.1 Total provision for impairment carried forward at end of year 8.8 7.5 Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 154 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 55.4 44.0 Money market funds 75.9 94.6 Short term deposits 14.7 16.0 Total cash and cash equivalents 146.0 154.6 Cash and cash equivalents include balances of 10.6m 31 December 2017: 9.5m relating to cash and cash equivalents held on behalf of other insurers on an agency basis.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures Financial assets and liabilities The Groups financial instruments can be analysed as follows: At amortised cost The carrying values of all financial instruments carried at amortised cost are considered to be an approximation of fair value and the table below analyses these by balance sheet classification: As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Financial assets Insurance and other receivables excluding salvage and subrogation assets 391.6 359.1 Total financial assets at amortised cost 391.6 359.1 Financial liabilities Loans and borrowings 244.3 272.0 Insurance and other payables excluding salvage and subrogation payables and deferred income 204.5 198.3 Total financial liabilities at amortised cost 448.8 470.3 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 155 25.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued Financial assets and liabilities continued At fair value The table below analyses financial assets carried at fair value by level within the fair value hierarchy.
Debt securities and investment funds are valued by reference to the most recent observable market trade unless there is evidence of impairment.
Where such trades are not sufficiently regular for the sales to be classified as an open market, these are classified as level 2.
As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Level 2 Level 2 m m Fair value through profit or loss Investment funds 59.0 65.7 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 59.0 65.7 Available for sale Debt securities 499.0 473.9 Total available for sale financial assets 499.0 473.9 Total financial assets at fair value 558.0 539.6 The table below analyses the movement in financial assets carried at fair value: Investment Debt funds securities Total m m m As at 1 January 2017 48.5 355.1 403.6 Net increases to the fair value of assets held recognised in profit or loss 0.2 0.2 0.4 Net decreases to the fair value of assets held recognised in other comprehensive income 2.0 2.0 Net additions to assets held 17.0 120.6 137.6 As at 31 December 2017 and 1 January 2018 65.7 473.9 539.6 Net decreases increases to the fair value of assets held recognised in profit or loss 1.5 0.2 1.3 Net decreases to the fair value of assets held recognised in other comprehensive income 6.8 6.8 Net disposals additions to assets held 5.2 31.7 26.5 As at 31 December 2018 59.0 499.0 558.0 Investment funds comprise funds with investments in debt securities, equities, derivatives and cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups investment in available for sale financial assets mainly comprises of fixed income debt securities.
Cash and cash equivalents with a fair value of 146.0m, and debt securities with a fair value of 499.0m at 31 December 2018 are considered to give rise to cash flows that are solely for payments of principal and interest.
During the year to 31 December 2018, fair value losses of 6.8m were recognised on these assets.
Of these assets, 1.7m are considered to not have a low credit risk.
Investment funds of 59.0m at 31 December 2018 designated under IAS 39 as at fair value through profit or loss are expected to be mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss under IFRS 9.
Fair value losses of 1.3m were recognised on these assets during the year.
Insurance and other receivable assets with a fair value of 21.1m at 31 December 2018 will be within the scope of IFRS 9.
All of these assets are considered to give rise to cash flows that are solely for payments of principal and interest.
Of these assets, 0.8m are considered not to have a low credit risk.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 156 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued Objectives, policies and procedures for managing financial risks The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets and liabilities.
The most important components of financial risk for the Group are credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will be unable to pay amounts in full as they fall due.
The Group is exposed to credit risk through reinsurance assets, financial assets and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group manages its exposure to credit risk on high liquidity investments by pursuing a strategy whereby all investments in money market funds have credit ratings of AA or above.
The credit ratings of the Groups banks are monitored on a regular basis and, where there is adverse movement, appropriate action would be determined by the Boards Risk Committee.
Objectives, policies and procedures for managing financial risks continued Investment funds and debt securities are assessed by management to ensure that the level of credit risk is acceptable, credit ratings are sufficiently strong and the investment is in line with the Groups investment policy.
The credit ratings of the underlying assets within investment funds, debt security counterparty and banks with which the Group has significant credit risk, in relation to its investments in cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value, were as follows: Cash and Debt Investment cash securities funds equivalents Total m m m m As at 31 December 2018 AAA 62.7 6.3 76.1 145.1 AA 149.0 11.1 160.1 A 145.5 12.5 69.9 227.9 BBB 140.1 7.3 147.4 Less than BBB 1.7 11.1 12.8 Not rated 10.7 10.7 Total 499.0 59.0 146.0 704.0 As at 31 December 2017 AAA 73.4 4.2 94.8 172.4 AA 98.8 7.2 106.0 A 178.4 18.9 42.1 239.4 BBB 123.3 12.1 17.7 153.1 Less than BBB 10.9 10.9 Not rated 12.4 12.4 Total 473.9 65.7 154.6 694.2 The Groups exposure to reinsurers is analysed below by the credit rating of each reinsurer: As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m AA 848.5 683.2 A 362.4 404.5 BBB 1.2 Total reinsurance assets 1,212.1 1,087.7 The Group has investment guidelines that restrict the amount of the investment portfolio that can be placed with a single counterparty.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 157 25.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued Objectives, policies and procedures for managing financial risks continued The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2018 is the carrying value of financial assets at fair value and at amortised cost, reinsurance assets and cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups insurance receivables are an aggregation of small receivables and the Group uses multiple reinsurance providers to ensure that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Insurance receivables are monitored closely with a view to minimising the collection period of those items.
Since other assets such as cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value are well diversified, the Directors believe that the Group does not hold any significant concentrations of risk.
Market risk The only significant market risk to which the Group is exposed to is interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk is defined by the Group as the impact of unfavourable movements in market interest rates which could adversely affect the values of financial assets and liabilities, or reduce future cash flows arising from them.
Cash and cash equivalents are held in current accounts or in short term money market instruments.
These are generally lessthan 60 days in duration, considerably reducing sensitivity to significant movements in interest rates compared to longerduration assets.
The Directors consider that the exposure to interest rate risk of cash and cash equivalents balances isimmaterial for the purposes of sensitivity analysis.
The carrying values of the Groups financial assets at fair value, being predominantly fixed rate debt securities, are susceptible movements in interest rates but has minimal impact on the Group Statement of Profit or Loss.
A 1% increase in interest rates would have the below impact on profit after tax and equity: As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Equity 10.9 12.4 Profit after tax 0.1 1.6 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to meet obligations as they fall due.
The Group maintains significant holdings in liquid funds to mitigate this risk.
The Group makes use of regular forecasts to monitor and control its cash flow and working capital requirements.
Financial liabilities are settled in line with agreed payment terms and managed in accordance with cash availability and inflow expectations.
All financial liabilities except loans and borrowings and an amount due to a reinsurer within insurance and other payables see Note 27 are due within 12 months.
Loans and borrowings consist of the seven year 250m 3% fixed rate senior bonds, due for redemption in May 2025, with interest payable semi-annually.
The Revolving Credit Facility RCF commitment term has been extended to May 2023.
Any outstanding balances drawn on the RCF are due for repayment at the end of the term.
As at 31 December 2018, the balance drawn down on the RCF was nil.
The assets backing insurance contracts and other short term liabilities held by the Group are considered to be more liquid than the related liabilities, and the Group is in a net current asset position.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 158 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued Objectives, policies and procedures for managing financial risks continued The following table indicates the expected timing of net cash outflows resulting from insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets at the year end: Over 0-1 year 1-2 years 2 years Total m m m m As at 31 December 2018 Gross claims liabilities 614.8 375.4 740.2 1,730.4 Less reinsurance assets 360.5 230.7 584.4 1,175.6 Net cash outflows 254.3 144.7 155.8 554.8 As at 31 December 2017 Gross claims liabilities 589.1 345.2 619.9 1,554.2 Less reinsurance assets 282.0 185.0 574.8 1,041.8 Net cash outflows 307.1 160.2 45.1 512.4 The expected contractual undiscounted cash flows of loans and borrowings, including interest payments fall due as follows: Over 0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m As at 31 December 2018 Senior Bond 7.5 7.5 22.5 261.2 298.7 As at 31 December 2017 Revolving Credit Facility 7.5 7.3 286.8 301.6 Actual cash flows of loans and borrowings are not expected to vary significantly as the senior bond interest is fixed at 3%.
Objectives, policies and procedures for managing capital The Groups capital is made up of total equity of 651.0m 2017: 612.9m and loans and borrowings of 244.3m 2017: 272.0m.
The Groups dividend policy seeks to distribute excess capital to shareholders, where such capital is surplus and not required for growth, to meet regulatory requirements, or to reduce borrowing.
The Group monitors and reviews the capital position of its two regulated trading subsidiaries, HISL and AICL, which are independently managed and required to comply with their respective external regulatory capital requirements.
AICLs objectives for managing capital are to comply with the Solvency II capital requirements: to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern: and to provide an adequate return by pricing insurance contracts commensurately with the level of risk.
AICL, as an insurance company, is subject to the provisions of the Solvency II regulations set by the European Parliament and European Union Commission and implemented by the Gibraltar Financial Services Commission.
AICL seeks to maintain a prudent threshold above the Solvency II solvency capital requirement at all times and has maintained its capital above the solvency capital requirement throughout the year.
HISL, as an insurance intermediary in the UK, is subject to a capital resources requirement under Financial Conduct Authority rules: it exceeded that minimum capital requirement at all times during the year.
HISL regularly reviews and monitors its capital position and seeks to maintain a prudent threshold above the capital resource requirement at all times.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 159 26.
Loans and borrowings As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m 3% senior bonds due 2025 250.0 Revolving Credit Facility 275.0 Arrangement fees and discounts 5.7 3.0 Total loans and borrowings 244.3 272.0 Non-current 244.3 272.0 Total loans and borrowings 244.3 272.0 On 24 May 2018 the Group issued 250.0m of seven year fixed rate investment grade senior unsecured bonds the Bond rated BBB.
The Bond has a 3% coupon rate, payable six monthly in arrears.
The proceeds were used to pay down the Revolving Credit Facility RCF and the commitment under this facility was reduced from 310.0m to 110.0m, and the term extended to May 2023.
At 31 December 2018, the RCF was undrawn after repayment of the balance outstanding 31 December 2017: 275.0m.
The table below reconciles the movement in the Groups loans and borrowings.
As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m As at 1 January 272.0 286.6 Cash movement Repayment of Revolving Credit Facility 275.0 15.0 Issue of Senior unsecured Bond at discount 247.8 - Arrangement and amendment fees incurred 1.5 0.5 Non-cash movement Amortisation of fees incurred on loans and borrowings 1.0 0.9 As at 31 December 244.3 272.0 27.
Insurance and other payables As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Amounts owed to reinsurers 97.5 102.6 Reinsurers share of salvage and subrogation recoveries 26.3 30.6 Insurance premium tax 27.8 28.0 Accrued expenses 50.3 50.6 Deferred income 12.6 10.9 Lease liabilities 9.8 Other payables 19.1 17.1 Total insurance and other payables 243.4 239.8 Current 233.0 238.2 Non-current 10.4 1.6 Total insurance and other payables 243.4 239.8 Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 160 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Share capital and reserves Share capital Share capital recognised as equity comprised Ordinary Shares authorised, issued and fully paid up as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Number of Number of Shares m Shares m Authorised, issued and fully paid up Ordinary Shares of 2p each Opening Ordinary Shares 657,217,641 13.1 657,217,641 13.1 Shares Issued 483,487 0.1 Closing Ordinary Shares 657,701,128 13.2 657,217,641 13.1 Issued shares During 2018, the Company issued 483,487 ordinary shares to the employee benefit trust to satisfy employee share schemes.
Merger reserve During 2015, the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc HIG H, the ultimate parent company of AICL and HISL.
Both the Company and HIG H were under common control before and after the reorganisation and, as a consequence, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the principles of predecessor accounting.
Under this method, the difference on consolidation between consideration paid and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired on the date of the reorganisation is included within the merger reserve in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other reserves Unrealised fair value movements on available for sale financial assets Note 25 and property held at revalued amounts Note19 are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within other reserves.
Company shares acquired and held for the purposes of funding the share based payment plans as described in Note 29 are recorded as own shares within other reserves.
These shares are held by employee benefit trusts that are consolidated within these Consolidated Financial Statements.
At 31 December 2018, the employee benefit trusts held 2.8m shares 2017: 0.5m acquired at a cost of 3.6m 2017: 1.4m.
Share based payments The total charge for the share based payments recognised in the profit and loss during 2018 was 3.3m 2017: 4.8m and there was no impact on the balance sheet at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Admission awards On 15 October 2015, certain key management personnel were granted share awards conditional upon the Company listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The awards were for a fixed value of 5.9m, payable in Ordinary Shares in two tranches, the first on 31 December 2017 and the second on 31 December 2018.
The awards were subject to a service condition that the members remain in employment by the Group until vesting date.
The awards are classified as equity settled share based payments and had a fair value of 4.9m at grant date.
On 31 December 2017, the first tranche of 3.0m vested and was net settled by issue of 468,469 Ordinary Shares of the Company on 16 January 2018 and payment by the Group of 1.2m employee taxes arising.
The second tranche of 3.0m vested on 31 December 2018 and was net settled by issue of 769,180 Ordinary Shares of the Company on 4 January 2019.
Long Term Incentive Plan Certain management personnel are eligible to participate in the Hastings Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP giving them an option to acquire shares in the Company at an exercise price of nil.
Vesting is subject to a three year service period and the achievement of certain performance conditions in respect of total shareholder return and adjusted earnings per share over athree year period.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, 3.5m options were granted, with a fair value of 7.2m 2017: 4.3m options with a fair value of 9.8m.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 161 29.
Share based payments continued Long Term Incentive Plan continued Awards subject to a market condition have been valued using the Monte Carlo pricing model and those not subject to a market condition have been valued using the Black Scholes model.
The model inputs are as follows: 2018 LTIP 2017 LTIP grant grant Share price at grant date 272p 274p Exercise price 0p 0p Volatility 25% 26% Average comparator volatility 29% 29% Dividend yield n a n a Risk free rate 0.88% 0.18% Expected life 3 years 3 years The expected life is the contractual life of the option adjusted to reflect managements best estimate of holder behaviour.
Volatility was determined by reference to insurance companies within the FTSE 350.
The following table details the outstanding number of options under the LTIP: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 million million Number of share options Outstanding at 1 January 6.3 2.4 Granted during the year 3.6 4.3 Exercised during the year Forfeited during the year 0.2 0.4 Outstanding at 31 December 9.7 6.3 Exercisable at 31 December Capital Appreciation Plan On 21 December 2017, certain key management personnel were invited to participate in the Groups Capital Appreciation Plan CAP, under which they may be awarded up to five free shares in the Company for every share that they place into trust.
The total number of awards granted was 2,252,461.
The awards are conditional upon total shareholder return over a five year period to 31 December 2022, with the number of awards dependent upon the level of return.
There is also a cap on the number of shares which may be placed in the trust by each individual.
Total entitlement to shares at the end of the performance period shall be released in three tranches: one third at the end of the performance period, a further third 12 months later, and the final third 12 months after that.
The awards were valued using the Monte Carlo pricing model with inputs as follows: 2017 CAP Grant Share price at grant date 318p Exercise price 0p Volatility 24% Dividend yield n a Risk free rate 0.8% Expected life 5 years Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 162 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Share based payments continued Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 million million Number of share awards Outstanding at 1 January 2.3 Granted during the year 2.3 Exercised during the year Forfeited during the year 0.3 Outstanding at 31 December 2.0 2.3 Exercisable at 31 December Share Incentive Plan The Group runs an employee Share Incentive Plan SIP under which employees are entitled to purchase each month, through a trust, shares in the Company worth up to 150.
The Group matches employee contributions up to 30 a month through free share awards, subject to a three year service period before the matching shares are awarded.
Dividends are paid on shares, including matching shares, held in the trust by means of dividend shares.
The fair value of such awards is estimated to be the market value of the awards on grant date.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, 144,617 matching shares 2017: 114,646 were granted to employees, with an estimated fair value of 0.4m 2017: 0.3m.
The average unexpired life of SIP awards is 2.0 years 2017: 2.0 years.
As at 31 December 2018, 361,357 2017: 216,740 matching shares were held on behalf of employees with a carrying value of 0.9m 2017: 0.5m within the SIP scheme.
Deferred Bonus On 6 April 2018 certain key management personnel in lieu of a bonus were awarded 125,267 free shares in the Company 2017: 82,234 with a fair value of 0.3m 2017: 0.2m to be deferred for three years.
These were not subject to performance or service conditions.
Financial commitments The Group is committed to making the following payments in future years for leases: As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Within one year 3.1 1.8 Within two to five years 7.4 5.4 Over five years 3.4 2.6 Total lease commitments 13.9 9.8 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 163 30.
Financial commitments continued The Group is committed to making the following payments in future years under other contracts in place as at the year end: As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m IT transaction and support costs Within one year 7.1 6.2 Within two to five years 3.5 4.8 IT software development costs Within one year 1.0 3.0 Within two to five years 1.0 Computer hardware costs Within two to five years 0.3 0.3 Total other financial commitments 12.9 14.3 The interest on the lease liabilities recognised in the profit or loss statement as at 31 December 2018 was 0.4m, details of lease related right of use assets capitalised are disclosed in Note 19, and cash outflows from lease liabilities are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Subsidiaries The Companys subsidiaries are as follows: Subsidiary Registered office Class of shares held % ownership Principal activity Hastings Insurance Group Holdings Limited a Ordinary 100% Holding 1 Hastings Insurance Group Investment Limited a Ordinary 100% Holding 1 Hastings Insurance Group Layer Three Limited a Ordinary 100% Dormant 1 Hastings Insurance Group Layer Two Limited a Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings Group Finance plc a Ordinary 100% Holding 1 Hastings Group Limited a Ordinary 100% Holding 1 Advantage Global Holdings Limited b Ordinary 100% Holding 1 Advantage Insurance Company Limited c Ordinary 100% Underwriting 1 Conquest House Limited d Ordinary 100% Leasing of property 1 Hastings Holdings Limited d Ordinary 100% Holding 1 Hastings UK Limited d Ordinary 100% Holding 1 Hastings Insurance Services Limited d Ordinary 100% Broking 1 Renew Insurance Services Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant 1 1066 Direct Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant 1 Advantage Insurance Services Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant 1 Hastings Direct Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant 1 Hastings Direct Accident Management Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant 1 Peoples Choice Europe Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant 1 Held indirectly Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 164 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Subsidiaries continued The registered offices of the Companys subsidiaries are as follows: a.
47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD b. Ritter House, Wickhams Cay II, Road Town, Tortola VG1110, British Virgin Islands c. Suite 23, Portland House, Glacis Road, Gibraltar d. Conquest House, 32-34 Collington Avenue, Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex, TN39 3LW, UK The Company holds 100% of the voting rights of both its directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries.
The Company does not have any other significant holdings.
Related party transactions The Group undertakes transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and all transactions with related parties are made on normal, arms length, commercial terms.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group entered into the following related party transactions: the Group was charged 0.6m in fees by Goldman Sachs Asset Management International, a subsidiary of a company with significant influence 31 December 2017: 0.5m.
At 31 December 2018, 0.2m was outstanding 31 December 2017: 0.1m : and the Group was charged 2.7m by OUTsurance Shared Services Limited, a subsidiary of a company with significant influence, for the provision of insurance intermediary support services 31 December 2017: 0.1m.
There was an outstanding balance of nil as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 0.1m.
During the year, the Group received a transfer of 1.5m and 201,823 HGH plc shares from a legacy employee benefit trust which was outside the control of the Group.
This has been recognised as a capital contribution in the HGH plc financial statements.
Dividends A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 amounting to 55.9m or 8.5p per share was paid on 31May2018 2017: 43.4m.
On 7 August 2018, the Board declared an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 of 4.5p per share, or29.6m which was paid on 9 November 2018.
On 27 February 2019, the Board proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 of 9.0p per share, amounting to 59.3m and payable subject to shareholder approval.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 165 34.
Contingent liabilities On 19 January 2018, the Group received the outcome of the First-tier Tribunal proceedings held in November 2016, which were brought by Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL as to whether insurance intermediary supplies provided by HISL and received by Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL should be treated as outside the scope of VAT.
The First-tier Tribunal found in favour of HISL and concluded that the VAT incurred by HISL in relation to insurance intermediary supplies provided to AICL can be recovered.
This has resulted in additional input VAT recoverable for periods up to 31 December 2017 of 14.6m which has been recognised as a credit to other expenses during the period.
On 16 March 2018, HMRC sought leave to appeal against the First-tier Tribunal decision and have the decision referred to the Upper Tribunal.
HMRC were granted leave to appeal by the First-tier Tribunal on 14 June 2018 and submitted their Notice of appeal to the Upper Tribunal on 7 July 2018 and a date for a hearing at the Upper Tribunal has been set for 7 October 2019.
Should HMRC prove successful in overturning the First-tier Tribunal judgement at the Upper Tribunal then the Group would potentially have to repay up to 18.4m of input VAT recovered to date as well as additional VAT recovered in respect of subsequent periods and associated costs.
In the event that the Group lost at the Upper Tribunal, it would be open to the Group to seek leave to appeal the decision and have the case referred to the Court of Appeal, where if successful the Group would receive a refund of VAT repaid to HMRC.
Having reviewed the strength of the First-tier tribunal decision and HMRCs appeal, and having considered legal advice received, the Board has assessed that it is more likely than not that the original judgement will be upheld.
Therefore it is not considered probable that any refund will be required, and no provision or liability has been recognised.
The Groups legal entities are subject to review and enquiries by tax authorities in the UK and Gibraltar.
The Group commenced discussion with HMRC in December 2016 regarding aspects of its business model and the attribution of profits for tax purposes in the Groups operating subsidiaries.
During the period the Group has engaged in correspondence and meetings with HMRC.
Management have reviewed current and previous tax filings, and considered the nature of the ongoing discussion, and do not consider it appropriate to provide for any additional tax due.
The Group provides for potential tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities having taken consideration of any ongoing enquiries or reviews and based on guidance from professional firms.
The final amounts paid may differ from the amounts provided depending on the ultimate resolution of such matters, and any changes to estimates or amounts payable in respect of prior periods are reported through adjustments relating to prior periods.
Impact of changes in accounting policies IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition IFRS 15 The Group implemented IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018.
The Group has used a cumulative effect method whereby comparatives are not restated and the cumulative impact of adjustments is recognised in the Balance Sheet at the date of initial application.
The comparative period has been measured under IAS 18.
The Group differentiates fees and commissions earned from panel policies from fees and commissions earned from AICL policies, both of which are recognised on arrangement of the underlying insurance policy but fall within the scope for different standards, being IFRS 15 and IFRS 4 respectively.
Acquisition costs incurred obtaining Panel customers are initially recognised within deferred acquisition costs and are then recognised in the profit and loss account at each renewal over the expected life of the customer relationship.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 The Group implemented IFRS 16 from 1 January 2018 and applied this to all leases entered into from 1 January 2018.
For contracts entered into before 1 January 2018, the Group applied IFRS 16 accounting provisions to contracts that had already been recognised as operating leases under IAS 17 Leases IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains alease IFRIC 4, in accordance with the transition provisions.
These contracts comprised property and computer hardwarerentals.
On initial application, property lease liabilities were recognised at the present value of the lease commitments taking into consideration managements intention to lease properties for the full rental period and this resulted in a difference in the cash flows when compared to those disclosed in Note 30 in the 2017 Annual Report, as these showed the minimum commitment which was based on exercising the break clause.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 166 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Impact of changes in accounting policies continued IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 continued At transition date, lease liabilities recognised were calculated at the present value of remaining lease payments using an incremental borrowing rate determined as at transition date taking into account the nature of the asset and the remaining lease term.
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities recognised in the Balance Sheet at transition was 5%.
The lease term was determined using hindsight in instances where the lease contract contained options to extend or terminate the lease.
The Group used the transition option to recognise right of use assets at their carrying amounts as if IFRS 16 had been applied since commencement date, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application.
Depreciation of the right of use assets has been subsequently recognised using the straight line method in profit or loss over the expected lease term, or usage term, where the Group expects to exercise a purchase option.
In accordance with the IFRS 16 transition provisions, the Group used a modified retrospective approach under which prior year figures have not been restated and continue to be reported under IAS 17 and IFRIC 4, details of which are disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report.
The cumulative impact of initial application has been recognised as an adjustment to the opening Balance Sheet with a net decrease of 0.3m in opening retained earnings.
The impact of these new standards as at transition date is summarised below: As at Adjustments Adjusted 31 December IFRS 15 IFRS 16 1 January 2017 transition transition 2018 m m m m Assets Property and equipment 14.2 10.7 24.9 Deferred income tax assets 6.6 6.6 Deferred acquisition costs 31.1 0.4 31.5 Liabilities Insurance and other payables 239.8 1.7 11.0 252.5 Deferred income tax liabilities 16.0 16.0 Current tax liabilities 11.2 11.2 Equity Retained earnings 1,180.7 1.3 0.3 1,179.1 In accordance with the transition requirements under IFRS 15, the table below shows the difference in the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet under IFRS 15 when compared to what would have been recognised under IAS 18.
As at 31 December 2018 Under Impact As IAS 18 of IFRS 15 reported m m m Assets Deferred acquisition costs 34.1 0.4 34.5 Deferred income tax assets 6.6 6.6 Liabilities Insurance and other payables 241.7 1.7 243.4 Deferred income tax liabilities 8.5 8.5 Equity Retained earnings 1,227.5 1.3 1,226.2 The implementation of IFRS 15 has not resulted in any reportable differences in profit or loss when compared to IAS 18.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018
