98 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors consider that the Annual Report and Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced applicable law and regulation.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Companys performance, business model and strategy.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group financial statements Each of the directors, whose names and functions are inaccordance with International Financial Reporting listed in Governance Report confirm that, to the best Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and of their knowledge: company financial statements in accordance with United The Company financial statements, which have Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United beenprepared in accordance with United Kingdom Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law.
Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Under company law the directors must not approve the Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law, financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group financial position and profit of the Company: and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and The Group financial statements, which have been Company for that period.
In preparing the financial prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the statements, the directors are required to: European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, Select suitable accounting policies and then apply liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and themconsistently: The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the development and performance of the business and European Union have been followed for the Group theposition of the Group and Company, together with financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties that Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed it faces.
forthe Company financial statements, subject to any By order of the Board material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Alistair Cox Make judgments and accounting estimates that are Chief Executive reasonable and prudent: and Paul Venables Prepare the financial statements on the going concern Group Finance Director basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 29 August 2018 Group and Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100 I ndependent Auditors Report Financial Statements for the 106 Consolidated Group Financial Statements Group including the report from 136 Hays plc Company Financial Statements the Independent Auditor.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 100 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC Report on the audit of the financial Overall Group materiality: 11.5 million Our audit approach statements 2017: 10.0 million, based on 5% of Overview Opinion profit before tax.
In our opinion: Overall Company materiality: 9.8 million 2017: 9.3 million, Hays plcs Group financial statements and Company based on 1% of total assets.
financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of We conducted an audit of the the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2018 and of the complete financial information of Materiality Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: 22 reporting units which together accounted for 87% of Group net fees The Group financial statements have been properly and 96% of Group profit before tax.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Three reporting units, Australia, UK European Union: and Germany, were considered to Audit scope be financially significant due to their The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally relative contributions to the Groups net fees and profit before tax.
Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced In addition to the UK reporting units, Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and Key audit eight overseas reporting units were matters The financial statements have been prepared in visited by members of the Group audit team during the year.
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial Recoverability of trade receivables.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Fraud in revenue recognition and We have audited the financial statements, included revenue cut-off.
within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Goodwill impairment assessment.
Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Hays plc Company Balance Sheets as at 30 June 2018: the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated The scope of our audit Cash Flow Statement, and the Consolidated and Hays plc As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the which include a description of the significant directors made subjective judgements, for example in accounting policies.
respect of significant accounting estimates that involved Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the making assumptions and considering future events that Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in We conducted our audit in accordance with International which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable Group which were contrary to applicable laws and law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of at Group and significant component level to respond to the the financial statements section of our report.
We believe risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve Independence deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or We remained independent of the Group in accordance intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes to a material misstatement in the Group and Company the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public financial statements, including, but not limited to, the interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
legislation, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that and regulations applicable to significant components.
non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the Other than those disclosed in note 6 to the financial regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, statements, we have provided no non-audit services to enquiries of management, review of significant the Group or the Company in the period from 1 July 2017 component auditors work and review of internal audit to 30 June 2018. reports in so far as they related to the financial Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 101 statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We found fraud in revenue recognition and revenue cut-off to be a key audit matter, and this is discussed further below.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Recoverability of trade receivables In order to test the recoverability of trade receivables, we performed the Refer to page 65 Audit Committee Report and notes 2, following procedures: 3 and 17 to the financial statements for the directors We evaluated the Groups credit control procedures and assessed and disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements validated the ageing profile of trade receivables: and estimates.
We assessed recoverability on a sample basis by reference to cash received At 30 June 2018, the total receivables balances net of subsequent to year-end, agreement to the terms of the contract in place, and provisions included in note 17 was 633.3 million 2017: issue of credit notes post year-end, as necessary: 586.1 million.
We considered the appropriateness of judgments regarding provisions for trade receivables and assessed whether these provisions were calculated in The recoverability of trade receivables and the level of accordance with the Groups provisioning policies and or whether there was provisions for bad debts are considered to be a key risk evidence of management bias in provisioning, obtaining supporting evidence due to the significance of these balances to the financial as necessary.
statements, and the judgements required in making appropriate provisions.
We challenged management as to the recoverability of the older, unprovided amounts, corroborating managements explanations with underlying documentation and correspondence with the customer.
We also challenged management in certain territories as to whether the methodology applied in determining bad debt provisions appropriately reflected the level of risk in the total receivables balance with consideration given to individual counter-party credit risk and the general economic conditions in each jurisdiction.
Based upon the above, we satisfied ourselves that management had taken reasonable judgements that were materially supported by the available evidence in respect of the relevant receivable balances.
We did not encounter any issues through these audit procedures that indicated that provisioning in respect of trade receivables was inappropriate.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 102 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Fraud in revenue recognition and revenue cut-off We performed the following procedures to address the risk that revenue had Refer to page 65 Audit Committee Report and notes 2 been recorded fraudulently: and 3 to the financial statements for the directors We assessed the design and implementation of key controls around all disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements streams of revenue recognised: and estimates.
We tested the occurrence of revenue journals posted through the year using There may be an incentive to manipulate income through a combination of data auditing techniques and corroborating of sales the fraudulent posting of journals to revenue during the transactions to third party documentation: year to meet financial targets.
We therefore considered We tested the accrued income associated with work performed by there to be a risk of fraud in revenue recognition at the contractors and temporary workers before the year end, by comparing the occurrence assertion level.
amounts to timesheets submitted after year end: There is also a degree of judgement relating to year-end We considered the appropriateness and accuracy of any cut-off adjustments cut-off and accruing for income, particularly in respect of processed by considering the start date of permanent placements and the the time worked by contractors and temporary workers term of a temporary placement with reference to the year end date: and that has not been processed in the Groups financial We evaluated whether revenue had been recognised in accordance with systems and a risk of inappropriate early recognition of IAS18 Revenue and with Hays accounting policy by reviewing details of the permanent placements that relate to the incorrect period.
Group revenue recognition policy, the application of this, and any significant new contracts.
There also may be an incentive for consultants to record more placements or not remove un-placed contractors in There were no material issues identified by our testing of revenue recognition order to receive commissions or to meet bonus targets.
and revenue cut-off in the year.
The audit risk includes all of the above aspects.
We determined that this specifically impacts the occurrence and cut-off assertions.
Goodwill impairment assessment Focusing on the Hays US business, we evaluated and challenged the directors Refer to page 65 Audit Committee Report, note 3 future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they were drawn up, Critical accounting estimates and note 13 for the related substantiating the significant changes in assumptions from the prior year.
We compared managements forecast with the latest Board-approved budget and found them to be reasonable.
The Group carried 223.2 million of goodwill at 30 June 2018 2017: 223.3 million, including 40.8 million We challenged: 2017:41.3 million for the Hays US cash generating unit The key assumptions for short and long-term growth rates in the forecasts CGU, which was the focus of our risk assessment and by comparing them with historical results, as well as economic and industry audit procedures.
forecasts for the US recruitment market: and The carrying value of the Hays US CGU goodwill is The discount rate used in the calculations by assessing the cost of capital contingent on future cash flows and there is a risk that if for the Group and comparable organisations, and assessed the specific risk these cash flows do not meet the directors expectations, premium applied to the Hays US CGU.
the goodwill will be impaired.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions within the cash flow The Hays US CGU, has historically had minimal headroom forecasts.
This included sensitising the discount rate applied to the future cash over its goodwill carrying value.
Managements flows, and the short and longer term growth rates and profit margins forecast.
investment in headcount, increased profits and strong We ascertained the extent to which a change in these assumptions, both market conditions, coupled with a reduction in discount individually or in aggregate, would result in a goodwill impairment, and rate has resulted in a growth in headroom over the considered the likelihood of such events occurring.
We also ensured that carrying value of the CGU to 43.8 million sufficient and appropriate disclosure regarding such events was included in 2017:2.4million.
Despite this increase in headroom, there is a risk that a Based on the procedures described above, we were satisfied that the carrying failure to execute against the current strategy, coupled value of goodwill in respect of Hays US had been appropriately assessed.
with changes in key assumptions, could have resulted in an impairment to Hays US.
No impairment charge was recognised in the year ended 30 June 2018.
We determined that there were no key audit matters The Groups 33 trading countries are structured across applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
four reported segments, Australia & New Zealand ANZ, Germany, UK & Ireland UK&I and Rest of World ROW.
How we tailored the audit scope Of the 33 trading countries, the UK, Germany and We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we Australia together represent 67% of the Groups net fees performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on and 72% of the Groups profit before tax from continuing the financial statements as a whole, taking into account operations.
We therefore considered these three countries the structure of the Group and the Company, the to be financially significant to the Group.
accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 103 A further 19 other reporting units, including 18 trading countries, were also subject to full scope audits by PwC teams in each of these countries, representing 20% of Group net fees and 24% of Group profit before tax from continuing operations, on an absolute basis.
In addition to this, the Group audit team performed specified audit procedures in two other countries, representing 5% of Group net fees and 1% of Group profit before tax from continuing operations.
Central review procedures were performed by the Group audit team on the remaining 10 countries that were not subject to full scope or specified audit procedures.
These countries represented the remaining 8% of net fees and 3% of profit before tax from continuing operations for the Group.
Over the course of the year, the Group audit team visited the operations in the UK, Germany, France, Hong Kong, Australia, the Netherlands, the US and Canada.
The Group team held regular meetings with the component audit teams in Australia, Germany and the UK, and also reviewed the audit work papers of each of those teams.
This helped to ensure that the Group audit team was sufficiently involved in both the planning and the execution of the audit procedures in these countries.
The Group audit team also joined the audit clearance meetings for each of the other 20 countries that were subject to full scope and specified audit procedures, as well as holding calls with the regional management teams responsible for each of the 10 countries subject to central review procedures.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 11.5 million 2017: 10.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark We believe that profit before tax is the primary We believe that total assets is the most appropriate applied measure used by the shareholders in assessing the measure to assess a holding company, and is a generally performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.75 million to 9.0 million 2017: 0.5 million to 7.5 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 575,000 Group audit 2017: 500,000 and 500,000 Company audit 2017: 500,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to draw attention in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the to.
However, because not all future events or directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going continue as a going concern.
concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 104 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC CONTINUED conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 30 June 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 58 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 51 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 39 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 39 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 97, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 63 to 67 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 105 Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities set out on page 98, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 9 November 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is two years, covering the years ended 30 June 2017 to 30 June 2018.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 29 August 2018 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 106 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 In s million Note 2018 2017 Turnover Continuing operations 5,753.3 5,081.0 1 Net fees Continuing operations 4 1,072.8 954.6 Operating profit from continuing operations 4 243.4 211.5 Net finance charge 8 4.9 6.9 Profit before tax 238.5 204.6 Tax 9 72.7 65.5 Profit from continuing operations after tax 165.8 139.1 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent company 165.8 139.1 Earnings per share from continuing operations Basic 12 11.44p 9.66p Diluted 12 11.30p 9.54p 1 Net fees comprise turnover less remuneration of temporary workers and other recruitment agencies.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 In s million 2018 2017 Profit for the year 165.8 139.1 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Actuarial remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 62.9 1.7 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 11.9 1.4 51.0 3.1 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Currency translation adjustments 5.1 17.4 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 1.8 Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax 45.9 18.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 211.7 157.8 Attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 211.7 157.8 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 107 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AT 30 JUNE In s million Note 2018 2017 Non-current assets Goodwill 13 223.2 223.3 Other intangible assets 14 23.8 18.6 Property, plant and equipment 15 29.3 24.0 Deferred tax assets 16 23.2 23.3 Retirement benefit surplus 22 75.9 375.4 289.2 Current assets Trade and other receivables 17 1,010.4 908.2 Cash and cash equivalents 18 122.9 112.0 1,133.3 1,020.2 Total assets 1,508.7 1,309.4 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 21 758.0 676.5 Current tax liabilities 25.4 23.5 Bank loans and overdrafts 20 0.4 Derivative financial instruments 19 0.1 Acquisition liabilities 29 13.6 Provisions 23 1.2 2.6 784.7 716.6 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 16 17.3 Retirement benefit obligations 22 0.2 Provisions 23 6.2 6.2 23.5 6.4 Total liabilities 808.2 723.0 Net assets 700.5 586.4 Equity Called up share capital 24 14.7 14.7 Share premium 369.6 369.6 Capital redemption reserve 2.7 2.7 Retained earnings 213.0 94.1 Cumulative translation reserve 78.7 83.8 Equity reserve 21.8 21.5 Total equity 700.5 586.4 The Consolidated Financial Statements of Hays plc, registered number 2150950, as set out on pages 106 to 143 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 29 August 2018.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors A R Cox P Venables Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 108 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 Called Capital Cumulative up share Share redemption Retained translation Equity Total In s million capital premium reserve earnings reserve reserve equity At 1 July 2017 14.7 369.6 2.7 94.1 83.8 21.5 586.4 Currency translation adjustments 5.1 5.1 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 62.9 62.9 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 11.9 11.9 Net income recognised in other comprehensive income 51.0 5.1 45.9 Profit for the year 165.8 165.8 Total comprehensive income for the year 216.8 5.1 211.7 Dividends paid 109.7 109.7 Share-based payments 11.9 0.3 12.2 Tax on share-based payment transactions 0.1 0.1 At 30 June 2018 14.7 369.6 2.7 213.0 78.7 21.8 700.5 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2017 Called Capital Cumulative up share Share redemption Retained translation Equity Total In s million capital premium reserve earnings reserve reserve equity At 1 July 2016 14.7 369.6 2.7 15.8 66.4 20.2 457.8 Currency translation adjustments 17.4 17.4 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 1.7 1.7 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 0.4 0.4 Net income recognised in other comprehensive income 1.3 17.4 18.7 Profit for the year 139.1 139.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 140.4 17.4 157.8 Dividends paid 42.6 42.6 Share-based payments 11.3 1.3 12.6 Tax on share-based payment transactions 0.8 0.8 At 30 June 2017 14.7 369.6 2.7 94.1 83.8 21.5 586.4 The equity reserve is generated as a result of IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 109 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 In s million Note 2018 2017 Operating profit from continuing operations 243.4 211.5 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.2 8.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 6.3 12.8 Profit on disposal of business assets 0.6 0.5 Net movements in provisions 1.4 0.5 Share-based payments 12.4 13.0 25.9 33.7 Operating cash flow before movement in working capital 269.3 245.2 Movement in working capital: Increase in receivables 107.9 111.4 Increase in payables 82.1 83.2 25.8 28.2 Cash generated by operations 243.5 217.0 Pension scheme deficit funding 15.3 14.8 Income taxes paid 65.7 68.2 Net cash inflow from operating activities 162.5 134.0 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15.1 12.9 Proceeds from sales of business assets 1.5 0.6 Purchase of intangible assets 11.4 9.1 Cash paid in respect of Veredus acquisition made in previous years 13.7 Interest received 0.6 0.6 Net cash used in investing activities 38.1 20.8 Financing activities Interest paid 2.6 2.5 Equity dividends paid 109.7 42.6 Proceeds from exercise of share options 1.3 1.0 Decrease in bank loans and overdrafts 0.4 25.8 Net cash used in financing activities 111.4 69.9 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 13.0 43.3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 28 112.0 62.9 Effect of foreign exchange rate movements 2.1 5.8 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 28 122.9 112.0 In s million Note 2018 2017 Bank loans and overdrafts at beginning of year 0.4 26.1 Decrease in year 0.4 25.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate movements 0.1 Bank loans and overdrafts at end of year 0.4 Net cash at end of year 28 122.9 111.6 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 110 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 15 amendments Revenue from ii as temporary workers are provided to the 1.
General information Contracts and Customers effective client.
An immaterial amount of revenue is Hays plc is a Company incorporated in the 1January 2018 generated from the provision of services United Kingdom and registered in England overtime, recognised as certain delivery and Wales and its registered office is IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 milestones are met, which represents 250 Euston Road, London NW1 2AF.
approximately 0.3% of the Groups turnover Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2016 The Consolidated Financial Statements and net fees.
effective 1 January 2018 have been prepared in accordance with As a result of the review, revenue recognition IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions International Financial Reporting Standards under IFRS 15 is expected to be consistent and Advance Consideration effective IFRSs and IFRS Interpretation Committee with current practice for the Groups revenue 1January 2018 interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the as described in note 2 d Turnover and e European Union and therefore comply with IAS 19 amendments Employee Benefits Net Fees to the Consolidated Financial Article 4 of the European Union International effective 1 January 2019 Statements and had IFRS 15 been applied Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
in the current reporting period, it would not IAS 28 amendments Investments in have had a material impact on the Groups New standards and interpretations Associates effective 1 January 2019 financial statements.
A fully retrospective The Consolidated Financial Statements have IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax method will be adopted for transparency been prepared on the basis of the accounting Treatments effective 1 January 2019 and comparison purposes in the FY19 Group policies and methods of computation financial statements.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2017 applicable for the year ended 30 June 2018. effective 1 January 2019 These accounting policies are consistent with IFRS 16 is expected to have a significant those applied in the preparation of the impact on the amounts recognised in the IFRS 9 introduces a new classification financial statements for the year ended Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
approach for financial assets and liabilities.
30June 2017 with the exception of the On adoption of IFRS 16 the Group will The categories of financial assets will be following new accounting standards, recognise within the balance sheet a right reduced from four to three and financial amendments and interpretations which were of use asset and lease liability for all liabilities will be measured at amortised cost mandatory for accounting periods beginning applicable leases.
Within the income or fair value through profit and loss.
The on or after 1January 2017, none of which had statement, operating lease rentals payable standard also prescribes an expected credit any material impact on the Groups results or will be replaced by depreciation and interest loss model for determining the basis of financial position.
This will result in an increase in providing for bad debts.
A review of the operating profit and an increase in IAS 7 amendments Statement on current Group bad debt policy has concluded finance costs.
Cashflows on Disclosure Initiative that had IFRS 9 been applied in the current effectivefrom 1 January 2017 reporting period, the expected credit loss The standard will also impact a number of model would not have had a material impact statutory measures such as operating profit, IAS 12 amendments Income Taxes on the Groups financial statements.
The and cash generated from operations, and effective from 1 January 2017 Group will apply the new rules retrospectively alternative performance measures used by IFRS 12 Annual Improvements to IFRSs from 1 July 2018.
The full impact of IFRS 16 is 2016 Disclosure of Interests in Other for the year ended 30 June 2018 will not currently under review, including Entities effective 1 January 2017 be restated.
understanding the practical application of the principles of the standard.
It is therefore There have been no alterations made to the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with not practical to provide a reasonable estimate accounting policies as a result of considering Customers is effective in the Consolidated of the financial effect until this review is all IFRS and IFRIC amendments and Financial Statements for the year ending complete.
IFRS 16 will become effective in the interpretations that became effective during 30June 2019.
IFRS 15 requires companies to Groups financial year 2020.
The directors the financial year, as these were either not apportion revenue from customer contracts expect to be able to provide an indication of material to the Groups operations, or were to separate performance obligations and the impact on the Groups financial not relevant.
recognise revenue as these performance statements by 30 June 2019. obligations are satisfied.
IFRS 15 establishes The Group has not yet adopted certain new principles for reporting information about the The directors are currently evaluating the standards, amendments and interpretations nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of impact of the adoption of all other standards, to existing standards, which have been revenue and cash flows arising from an amendments and interpretations but do not published but which are only effective for the entitys contracts with customers.
There will expect them to have a material impact on the Group accounting periods beginning on or also be additional disclosure requirements.
These new pronouncements are listed as follows: An assessment of the impact of IFRS 15 has The Groups principal accounting policies been completed following a comprehensive IFRS 2 amendments Share-based adopted in the presentation of these financial review of the contracts that exist across the Payments effective 1 January 2018 statements are set out below and have been Groups revenue streams.
The review has consistently applied to all the periods IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective concluded that the significant majority of presented.
1January 2018 revenue generated by the Group is from the IFRS 9 amendments Financial Instruments performance obligation of either i the effective 1 January 2019 permanent placement of an individual with a client, which is satisfied upon the individual IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts and Customers effective 1 January 2018 commencing employment with the client, or Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 111 All intra-Group transactions, balances, income f. Foreign currencies 2.
Significant accounting policies and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
On consolidation, the tangible and intangible a.
Basis of preparation assets and liabilities of subsidiaries d. Turnover The Consolidated Financial Statements have denominated in foreign currencies are been prepared on the historical cost basis Turnover is measured at the fair value translated into sterling at the rates ruling at with the exception of financial instruments of the consideration received or receivable the balance sheet date.
Income and expense and pension assets.
Financial instruments and represents amounts receivable for items are translated into sterling at average have been recorded initially on a fair value services provided in the normal course of rates of exchange for the period.
Any basis and then at amortised cost.
Pension business, net of discounts, VAT and other exchange differences which have arisen from assets have been measured at fair value.
an entitys investment in a foreign subsidiary, including long-term loans, are recognised as a Turnover arising from the placement of b.
Going concern separate component of equity and are permanent candidates, including turnover The Groups business activities, together with included in the Groups translation reserve.
arising from Recruitment Process Outsourcing the factors likely to effect its future RPO services, is recognised at the time the development, performance and viability are On disposal of a subsidiary, any amounts candidate commences full-time employment.
set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to transferred to the translation reserve are Where a permanent candidate starts 48.
The financial position of the Group, its included in the calculation of profit and loss employment but does not work for the cash flows and liquidity position are described on disposal.
All other translation differences specified contractual period, a provision is in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 37.
In are dealt with in the Consolidated Income made in respect of the required refund or addition, notes 18 to 20 to the Consolidated Statement.
credit note due to the client.
Financial Statements include details of the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising Groups treasury activities, long-term funding Turnover arising from temporary placements, on the acquisition of a foreign entity are arrangements and exposure to financial risk.
including turnover arising from Managed treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Service Programme MSP services, is The Group has sufficient financial resources entity and translated at the closing rate.
recognised over the period that temporary which, together with internally generated workers are provided.
Where the Group is g. Retirement benefit costs cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient acting as a principal, turnover represents the sources of liquidity to fund its current The expense of defined benefit pension amounts billed for the services of the operations, including its contractual and schemes and other post-retirement employee temporary workers, including the commercial commitments and any proposed benefits is determined using the  costs of the temporary workers.
Therefore the Group is well placed unit credit method and charged to the to manage its business risks.
Consolidated Income Statement as an Where Hays acts as principal in arrangements expense, based on actuarial assumptions that invoice on the costs incurred with other After making enquiries the directors have reflecting market conditions at the beginning recruitment agencies as part of the MSP formed the judgment that at the time of of the financial year.
All remeasurement gains service provided and manage the recruitment approving the Consolidated Financial and losses are recognised immediately in supply chain, turnover represents amounts Statements there is a reasonable expectation reserves and reported in the Consolidated invoiced on from other recruitment agencies, that the Group has adequate resources to Statement of Comprehensive Income in the including arrangements where no commission continue in operational existence for the period in which they occur.
Past service costs, is directly receivable by the Group.
For this reason, the curtailments and settlements are recognised directors continue to adopt the going concern Where the Group is acting as an agent in immediately in the Consolidated Income basis in preparing the Consolidated Financial arrangements that invoice on behalf of other Statement.
recruitment agencies as part of the MSP The Group has chosen under IFRS 1 to service provided, turnover represents c. Basis of consolidation recognise in retained earnings all cumulative commission receivable relating to the supply Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the remeasurement gains and losses as at 1 July of temporary workers and does not include date on which power to control is transferred 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
The the remuneration costs of the other agency to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from Group has chosen to recognise all temporary workers.
the date on which control ceases.
remeasurement gains and losses arising The critical accounting judgment in respect subsequent to 1 July 2004 in reserves and The acquisition method of accounting is used of revenue recognition is described further reported in the Consolidated Statement of to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries in note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Comprehensive Income.
by the Group whereby the identifiable assets, Statements.
liabilities and contingent liabilities are The retirement benefit surplus obligation measured at their fair values at the date of e. Net fees recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet acquisition.
The excess of the cost of represents the fair value of scheme assets as Net fees represent turnover less the acquisition over the fair value of the Groups reduced by the present value of the defined remuneration costs of temporary workers share of the identifiable net assets acquired is benefit obligation.
for temporary assignments and remuneration recorded as goodwill.
The financial of other recruitment agencies.
For the The Hays Pension Scheme Definitive Deed statements consolidate the accounts of Hays placement of permanent candidates, net fees and Rules is considered to provide Hays with plc and all of its subsidiaries.
The results of are equal to turnover.
an unconditional right to a refund of surplus subsidiaries acquired or disposed during the assets and therefore the recognition of a net year are included from the effective date of defined benefit scheme asset is not restricted acquisition or up to the effective date of and agreements to make funding disposal as appropriate.
contributions do not give rise to any additional liabilities in respect of the scheme.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 112 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED against current tax liabilities and when they Internally generated intangible assets are 2.
Significant accounting policies relate to income taxes levied by the same stated in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at continued taxation authority and the Group intends the directly attributable cost of creation of Payments to defined contribution schemes to settle its current tax assets and liabilities theasset, less accumulated amortisation.
are charged as an expense in the on a net basis.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straightConsolidated Income Statement as they line basis over their estimated useful lives up Temporary differences arise where there is a fall due.
Software difference between the accounting carrying incorporated into major Enterprise Resource h. Share-based payments value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and Planning ERP implementations that support the amount attributed to that asset or liability The fair value of all share-based remuneration the recruitment process and financial for tax purposes.
Temporary differences that is assessed upon market-based reporting process is amortised over a life of arising from goodwill and, except in a performance criteria is determined at the date up to seven years.
Other software is business combination, the initial recognition of grant and recognised as an expense in the amortised between three and five years.
of assets or liabilities that affect neither Consolidated Income Statement on a straightaccounting profit nor taxable profit, are not line basis over the vesting period, taking m. Property, plant and equipment provided for.
Deferred tax liabilities are account of the estimated number of shares Property, plant and equipment is recorded at recognised for taxable temporary differences that will vest.
cost, net of depreciation and any provision for arising on investments in subsidiaries and impairment.
Depreciation is provided on a The fair value of all share-based remuneration associates except where the Group is able straight-line basis over the anticipated useful that is assessed upon non-market-based to control the reversal of the temporary working lives of the assets, after they have performance criteria is determined at the date differences and it is probable that the been brought into use, at the following rates: of the grant and recognised as an expense in temporary difference will not reverse the Consolidated Income Statement over the Freehold land No depreciation is provided in the foreseeable future.
vesting period, based on the number of Freehold buildings At rates varying between shares that are expected to vest.
The number k. Goodwill 2% and 10% of shares that are expected to vest is adjusted Goodwill arising on consolidation represents accordingly to the satisfaction of the the excess of purchase consideration less the Leasehold properties The cost is written performance criteria at each period end.
fair value of the identifiable tangible and off over the unexpired term of the lease intangible assets and liabilities acquired.
The fair values are determined by use of the Plant and machinery At rates varying relevant valuation models.
All share-based Goodwill is recognised as an asset and between 5% and 33% remuneration is equity settled.
reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For Fixtures and fittings At rates varying the purpose of impairment testing, assets are i.
Borrowing costs between 10% and 25% grouped at the lowest level for which there Interest costs are recognised as an expense in are separately identifiable cash flows, known n. Trade and other receivables the Consolidated Income Statement in the as cash-generating units CGUs.
Any Trade and other receivables are initially period in which they are incurred.
impairment is recognised immediately in the Arrangement fees incurred in respect of measured at fair value and then at amortised Consolidated Income Statement and is not cost after appropriate allowances for borrowings are amortised over the term of subsequently reversed.
estimated irrecoverable amounts have been On disposal of a business the attributable recognised in the Consolidated Income j.
Taxation amount of goodwill is included in the Statement where there is objective evidence The tax expense comprises both current and determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
that the asset is impaired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the o.
Cash and cash equivalents The tax currently payable is based on taxable date of transition to IFRS 1 July 2004 has Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash-inprofit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from been retained at the previous UK GAAP hand and current balances with banks and net profit as reported in the Consolidated amounts, subject to being tested for similar institutions, which are readily Income Statement because it excludes items impairment at that date.
Goodwill arising on convertible to known amounts of cash and of income or expense that are taxable or acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 was written which are subject to insignificant risk of deductible in other years and it further off direct to reserves under UK GAAP.
excludes items that are never taxable or goodwill has not been reinstated and is not deductible.
The Groups liability for current included in determining any subsequent profit p. Trade payables tax is calculated using tax rates that have or loss on disposal.
Trade payables are measured initially at fair been enacted or substantively enacted by value and then at amortised cost.
l. Intangible assets the balance sheet date.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a q.
Bank borrowings Deferred tax is provided in full on all business combination are stated in the Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts temporary differences, at rates that are Consolidated Balance Sheet at their fair value are recorded initially at fair value and enacted or substantively enacted by the as at the date of acquisition less accumulated subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Deferred tax assets are amortisation and any provision for recognised only to the extent that it is impairment.
The directors review intangible probable that taxable profits will be available assets for indications of impairment annually.
against which to offset the deductible temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 113 Finance charges, including premiums payable Rentals payable under operating leases Provisions in respect of recoverability on settlement or redemption and direct-issue are charged to the Consolidated Income oftrade receivables costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in Statement on a straight-line basis over the As described in note 17, provisions for the Consolidated Income Statement using the lease term.
impairment of trade receivables have been effective interest rate method and are added made.
In reviewing the appropriateness of Benefits received and receivable as an to the carrying amount of the instrument to these provisions, consideration has been incentive to enter into an operating lease the extent that they are not settled in the given to the ageing of the debt and the are recognised on a straight-line basis period in which they arise.
potential likelihood of default, taking into over the lease term.
r. Derivative financial instruments t. Provisions The Group may use certain derivative Estimation uncertainty A provision is recognised when the Group has financial instruments to reduce its exposure Goodwill impairment a present legal or constructive obligation as a to foreign exchange movements.
The Group result of a past event for which it is probable Goodwill is tested for impairment at least held one foreign exchange contract at the that an outflow of resources will be required annually.
In performing these tests end of the current year 2017: four to to settle the obligation and when the amount assumptions are made in respect of future facilitate cash management within the Group.
If the effect is growth rates and the discount rate to be The Group does not hold or use derivative material, provisions are determined by applied to the future cash flows of incomefinancial instruments for speculative discounting the expected future cash flows at generating units.
These assumptions are set purposes.
a pre-tax rate that reflects the current market out in note 13 to the Consolidated Financial The fair values of foreign exchange swaps are assessments of the time value of money and Statements.
measured using inputs other than quoted the risks specific to the liability.
Pension accounting prices that are observable for the asset or Under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the liability, either directly or indirectly.
Critical accounting judgments Group has recognised a pension surplus of Groups policy not to seek to designate these and key sources of estimation 75.9million 2017: 0.2 million deficit.
All derivative financial uncertainty A number of assumptions have been made in instruments not in a hedge relationship are determining the pension position and these Critical accounting judgments classified as derivatives at fair value in the are described in note 22 to the Consolidated Consolidated Income Statement.
The fair Revenue recognition Financial Statements.
value of long-term borrowing is calculated The main areas of judgment in revenue by discounting expected future cash flows recognition relate to i cut-off as revenue is Uncertain tax positions at observable market rates.
recognised for permanent placements on the The Group operates in many countries and is day a candidate starts work and temporary Fair value measurements therefore subject to tax laws in a number of placement income over the duration of the different tax jurisdictions.
The amount of tax The information below sets out how the placement: and ii the recognition of payable or receivable on profits or losses for Group determines fair value of various temporary contractual arrangements where any period is subject to the agreement of the financial assets and financial liabilities.
Hays act on a gross basis principal basis tax authority in each respective jurisdiction The following provides an analysis of financial rather than a net basis agent basis.
and the tax liability or asset position is open instruments that are measured subsequent to to review for several years after the relevant The factors considered by management on a initial recognition at fair value, grouped into accounting period ends.
In determining the contract by contract basis when concluding Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the provisions for income taxes, management is the Company is acting as principal rather than fair value is observable.
required to make judgments and estimates agent are as follows: Level 1 fair value measurements are those based on interpretations of tax statute and The client has a direct relationship derived from quoted prices unadjusted case law, which it does after taking account with Hays: in active markets for identical assets of professional advice and prior experience.
Hays has the primary responsibility for or liabilities: providing the services to the client, and Uncertainties in respect of enquiries and Level 2 fair value measurements are those additional tax assessments raised by tax engages and contracts directly with the derived from inputs other than quoted temporary worker and other recruitment authorities are measured using managements prices included within Level 1 that are best estimate of the likely outcome.
The companies: observable for the asset or liability either amounts ultimately payable or receivable may Hays has latitude in establishing the rates directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. differ from the amounts of any provisions directly or indirectly with all parties: and derived from prices : and recognised in the Consolidated Financial Hays bears the credit risk on the receivable Level 3 fair value measurements are those Statements as a result of the estimates and due from the client.
derived from valuation techniques that assumptions used.
While the majority of the include inputs for the asset or liability that tax payable balance relates to uncertain tax Turnover and Net fees are described in note are not based on observable market data provisions, management does not consider 2 d and e to the Consolidated Financial unobservable inputs.
there to exist a significant risk of material Statements.
adjustment within the next financial year s. Leases because the tax provisions cover a range of Leases where a significant portion of risks matters across multiple tax jurisdictions with and rewards of ownership are retained by a variety of timescales before such matters the lessor are classified as operating leases are expected to be concluded.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 114 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Segmental information IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources to the segment and to assess their performance.
As a result, the Group now segments the business into four regions, Australia & New Zealand, Germany, United Kingdom & Ireland and Rest of World.
Therefore the comparative segment reporting has been restated accordingly.
In the prior year, the business was reported as three regions Asia Pacific, Continental Europe & Rest of World and United Kingdom & Ireland.
There is no material difference between the segmentation of the Groups turnover by geographic origin and destination.
The Groups continuing operations comprise one class of business, that of qualified, professional and skilled recruitment.
Net fees and operating profit from continuing operations The Groups Management Board, which is regarded as the chief operating decision maker, uses net fees by segment as its measure of revenue in internal reports, rather than use turnover.
This is because net fees exclude the remuneration of temporary workers, and payments to other recruitment agencies where the Group acts as principal, which are not considered relevant in allocating resources to segments.
The Groups Management Board considers net fees for the purpose of making decisions about allocating resources.
The Group does not report items below operating profit by segment in its internal management reporting.
The full detail of these items can be seen in the Group Consolidated Income Statement on page 106.
The reconciliation of turnover to net fees can be found in note 5.
In s million 2018 2017 Net fees from continuing operations Australia & New Zealand 199.4 180.7 Germany 276.0 230.3 United Kingdom & Ireland 258.2 252.9 Rest of World 339.2 290.7 1,072.8 954.6 In s million 2018 2017 Operating profit from continuing operations Australia & New Zealand 69.1 62.8 Germany 86.0 80.5 United Kingdom & Ireland 47.0 41.5 Rest of World 41.3 26.7 243.4 211.5 Net trade receivables For the purpose of monitoring performance and allocating resources from a balance sheet perspective, the Groups Management Board monitors trade receivables net of provisions for impairments only on a segment by segment basis.
These are monitored on a constant currency basis for comparability through the year.
These are shown below and reconciled to the totals as shown in note 17.
As reported Foreign As reported Foreign In s million internally exchange 2018 internally exchange 2017 Australia & New Zealand 109.1 5.3 103.8 83.6 4.8 88.4 Germany 174.7 1.5 176.2 161.5 8.2 169.7 United Kingdom & Ireland 188.7 0.1 188.8 167.3 0.6 167.9 Rest of World 165.6 1.1 164.5 153.3 6.8 160.1 638.1 4.8 633.3 565.7 20.4 586.1 Major customers In the current year and prior year there was no one customer that exceeded 10% of the Groups turnover.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 115 5.
Operating profit from continuing operations The following costs are deducted from turnover to determine net fees from continuing operations: In s million 2018 2017 Turnover 5,753.3 5,081.0 Remuneration of temporary workers 4,425.2 3,930.6 Remuneration of other recruitment agencies 255.3 195.8 Net fees 1,072.8 954.6 Operating profit is stated after charging the following items to net fees of 1,072.8 million 2017: 954.6 million : In s million 2018 2017 Staff costs note 7 635.2 563.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.2 8.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 6.3 12.8 Operating lease rentals payable note 27 45.3 42.1 Impairment loss on trade receivables 3.6 3.2 Auditors remuneration note 6 for statutory audit services 1.2 1.1 for other services 0.5 0.7 Other external charges 128.1 111.3 829.4 743.1 6.
Auditors remuneration In s million 2018 2017 Fees payable to the Companys Auditors for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys Auditors and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.0 0.9 Total audit fees 1.2 1.1 Half year review 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.4 0.6 Total non-audit fees 0.5 0.7 Other services fees incurred in the current and prior year relate to project management and communication support for a specific back-office change management programme in Germany.
PwC involvement in this project ceased in September 2017.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 116 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
Staff costs The aggregate staff remuneration including executive directors was as follows: In s million 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 538.8 474.4 Social security costs 69.0 61.0 Other pension costs 15.0 14.6 Share-based payments 12.4 13.0 635.2 563.0 Average number of persons employed during the year including executive directors : Number 2018 2017 Continuing operations Australia & New Zealand 1,356 1,185 Germany 2,268 1,820 United Kingdom & Ireland 3,504 3,479 Rest of World 3,599 3,156 10,727 9,640 Closing number of persons employed at the end of the year including executive directors : Number 2018 2017 Continuing operations Australia & New Zealand 1,385 1,237 Germany 2,339 1,996 United Kingdom & Ireland 3,472 3,458 Rest of World 3,782 3,309 10,978 10,000 8.
Net finance charge In s million 2018 2017 Interest received on bank deposits 0.6 0.6 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 2.2 2.7 Other interest payable 0.3 0.8 Interest unwind on acquisition liability 0.6 1.1 Pension Protection Fund levy 0.3 0.5 Net interest on pension obligations 2.1 2.4 Net finance charge 4.9 6.9 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 117 9.
Tax The tax expense credit for the year is comprised of the following: Current tax In s million 2018 2017 Current tax expense in respect of the current year 68.5 64.0 Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax of prior years 0.7 1.3 67.8 62.7 Deferred tax In s million 2018 2017 Deferred tax charge in respect of the current year 5.2 0.7 Adjustments to deferred tax in relation to prior years 0.3 2.1 4.9 2.8 Total income tax expense recognised in the current year relating to continuing operations 72.7 65.5 Current tax expense for the year comprised of the following: In s million 2018 2017 UK 8.0 6.2 Overseas 60.5 57.8 68.5 64.0 The income tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: In s million 2018 2017 Profit before tax from continuing operations 238.5 204.6 Income tax expense calculated at 19.00% 2017: 19.75% 45.3 40.4 Net effect of items that are non-taxable non-deductible in determining taxable profit 5.8 4.2 Effect of unused tax losses not recognised as deferred tax assets 1.6 1.0 Effect of tax losses not recognised as deferred tax utilised in the year 1.4 0.9 Effect of other timing differences not recognised as deferred tax assets 0.2 0.8 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 21.8 19.3 Effect of share-based payment charges and share options 0.4 0.1 73.7 64.7 Adjustments recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax of prior years 0.7 1.3 Adjustments to deferred tax in relation to prior years 0.3 2.1 Income tax expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement relating to continuing operations 72.7 65.5 Effective tax rate for the year on continuing operations 30.5% 32.0% The tax rate used for the 2018 reconciliations above is the corporate tax rate of 19.00% 2017: 19.75% payable by corporate entities in the United Kingdom on taxable profits under tax law in that jurisdiction.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 118 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Tax continued Income tax recognised directly in equity In s million 2018 2017 Current tax Excess tax deductions relating to share-based payments 0.4 Deferred tax Excess tax deductions relating to share-based payments 0.1 0.4 Total income tax recognised in equity 0.1 0.8 Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income In s million 2018 2017 Current tax Charge in respect of foreign exchange 1.8 Deferred tax Actuarial gain loss in respect of defined benefit pension scheme 11.9 1.4 Total income tax recognised in other comprehensive income 11.9 0.4 10.
Discontinued operations There was no profit or loss from discontinued operations in the current or prior year.
The cash outflows generated from discontinued operations were 0.3 million 2017: 0.3 million and are recorded within net movements in provisions on the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
There were no cash inflows generated from discontinued operations 2017: nil.
Dividends The following dividends were paid by the Group and have been recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the year: 2018 2017 pence per 2018 pence per 2017 share s million share s million Previous year final dividend 2.26 32.7 1.99 28.7 Previous year special dividend 4.25 61.6 Current year interim dividend 1.06 15.4 0.96 13.9 7.57 109.7 2.95 42.6 The following dividends have been paid proposed by the Group in respect of the accounting year presented: 2018 2017 pence per 2018 pence per 2017 share s million share s million Interim dividend paid 1.06 15.4 0.96 13.9 Final dividend proposed 2.75 40.1 2.26 32.7 Special dividend proposed 5.00 72.9 4.25 61.6 8.81 128.4 7.47 108.2 The final dividend for 2018 of 2.75 pence per share 40.1 million along with a special dividend of 5.00 pence per share 72.9 million will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 14 November 2018 and has not been included as a liability as at 30 June 2018.
If approved, the final and special dividend will be paid on 16 November 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 October 2018.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 119 12.
Earnings per share Weighted average number of Per share Earnings shares amount For the year ended 30 June 2018 s million million pence Continuing operations: Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 165.8 1,448.6 11.44 Dilution effect of share options 18.3 0.14 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 165.8 1,466.9 11.30 Weighted average number of Per share Earnings shares amount For the year ended 30 June 2017 s million million pence Continuing operations: Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 139.1 1,440.7 9.66 Dilution effect of share options 18.1 0.12 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 139.1 1,458.8 9.54 The weighted average number of shares in issue for both years exclude shares held in treasury.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 120 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Goodwill In s million 2018 2017 Cost At 1 July 223.3 220.4 Exchange adjustments 0.1 2.9 At 30 June 223.2 223.3 Goodwill arising on business combinations is reviewed and tested on an annual basis or more frequently if there is indication that goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill has been tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit CGU, including goodwill, with the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are as follows: Assumption How determined Operating profit The operating profit is based on the latest one-year forecasts for the CGUs approved by the Groups Management Board which are compiled using expectations of fee growth, consultant productivity and operating costs.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial forecasts approved by management and extrapolates cash flows in perpetuity based on the long-term growth rates and expected cash conversion rates.
Discount rates The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash flows range between 7.6% and 12.6% 2017: 9.1% and 13.3% reflecting current market assessments of the time value of money and the country risks specific to the relevant CGUs.
The discount rate applied to the cash flows of each of the Groups operations is based on the weighted average cost of capital WACC, taking into account adjustments to the risk-free rate for 20-year bonds issued by the government in the respective market.
Where government bond rates contain a material component of credit risk, high-quality local corporate bond rates may be used.
These rates are adjusted for a risk premium to reflect the increased risk of investing in equities and, where appropriate, the systematic risk of the specific Group operating company.
In making this adjustment, inputs required are the equity market risk premium that is the increased return required over and above a risk-free rate by an investor who is investing in the market as a whole and the risk adjustment beta, applied to reflect the risk of the specific Group operating company relative to the market as a whole.
Growth rates The medium-term growth rates are based on management forecasts.
These are consistent with a minimum average estimated growth rate of 5.0% 2017: 5.0%, with the exception of the United Kingdom where an average of 1.0% has been applied for years two to five and the United States where an average of 18.0% has been applied for years two to five following the completion of the initial investment phase in the business.
The growth estimates reflect a combination of both past experience and the macroeconomic environment, including GDP expectations driving fee growth.
The long-term growth rates are based on management forecasts, which are consistent with external sources of an average estimated growth rate of between 2.0% to 3.0% 2017: 2.0% to 3.5%, reflecting a combination of GDP expectations and long-term wage inflation driving fee growth.
GDP growth is a key driver of our business, and is therefore a key consideration in developing long-term forecasts.
Wage inflation is also an important driver of net fees as net fees are derived directly from the salary level of candidates placed into employment.
Based on past experience a combination of these two factors is considered to be an appropriate basis for assessing long-term growth rates.
Management has determined that there has been no impairment to any of the CGUs and in respect of these a sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing recoverable amounts of goodwill.
This has been based on changes in key assumptions considered to be reasonably possible by management.
This included a change in the pre-tax discount rate of up to 1% and changes in the long-term growth rate of between 0% and 2% in absolute terms.
The sensitivity analysis shows that no impairment would arise in isolation under each scenario for any of the CGUs.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is considered its own CGU or allocated to the groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
Individual CGUs are either country or brand-specific.
For the purpose of disclosure, individual CGUs have been aggregated and disclosed in accordance with segmental reporting.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: In s million 2018 2017 Germany 51.3 50.9 United Kingdom & Ireland 93.1 93.1 Rest of World 78.8 79.3 223.2 223.3 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 121 14.
Other intangible assets In s million 2018 2017 Cost At 1 July 112.2 101.8 Exchange adjustments 0.2 1.3 Additions 11.4 9.1 Disposals 0.5 At 30 June 122.9 112.2 Amortisation At 1 July 93.6 80.2 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.6 Charge for the year 6.3 12.8 Disposals 0.5 At 30 June 99.1 93.6 Net book value At 30 June 23.8 18.6 At 1 July 18.6 21.6 All other intangible assets relate mainly to computer software, and of the additions in the current year, 6.2 million relate to internally generated assets 2017: 4.2 million.
The estimated average useful life of the computer software related intangible assets is seven years 2017: seven years.
Software incorporated into major Enterprise Resource Planning ERP implementations is amortised on a straight-line basis over a life of up to seven years.
Other software is amortised on a straight-line basis between three and five years.
There were no capital commitments at the year end 2017: nil.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 122 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
Leasehold Freehold properties Plant and Fixtures and In s million properties short machinery fittings Total Cost At 1 July 2016 0.7 15.7 33.5 29.1 79.0 Exchange adjustments 0.5 0.8 0.7 2.0 Capital expenditure 3.6 5.9 3.4 12.9 Disposals 0.6 0.7 1.3 2.4 5.0 At 30 June 2017 0.1 19.1 38.9 30.8 88.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 July 2016 0.5 11.1 26.1 21.5 59.2 Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.7 0.5 1.6 Charge for the year 2.1 3.9 2.9 8.9 Disposals 0.5 0.7 1.3 2.3 4.8 At 30 June 2017 12.9 29.4 22.6 64.9 Net book value At 30 June 2017 0.1 6.2 9.5 8.2 24.0 At 1 July 2016 0.2 4.6 7.4 7.6 19.8 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 123 16.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities in relation to: Charge Charge credit to credit to Consolidated other Charge 1 July Income comprehensive credit to Exchange 30 June In s million 2017 Statement income equity difference 2018 Accelerated tax depreciation 12.7 2.9 9.8 Acquired tangibles and intangibles 2.7 0.2 0.1 3.0 Retirement benefit obligation 2.4 11.9 14.3 Share-based payments 3.2 0.1 3.1 Provisions 3.6 0.1 0.2 3.3 Tax losses 0.1 0.1 Other short-term timing differences 6.4 0.8 0.2 7.0 23.3 4.9 11.9 0.1 0.5 5.9 Charge Charge credit to credit to Consolidated other Charge 1 July Income comprehensive credit to Exchange 30 June In s million 2016 Statement income equity difference 2017 Accelerated tax depreciation 13.8 1.1 12.7 Acquired tangibles and intangibles 2.4 0.3 2.7 Retirement benefit obligation 2.7 4.1 1.4 Share-based payments 2.2 0.6 0.4 3.2 Provisions 2.9 0.5 0.2 3.6 Tax losses 0.3 0.2 0.1 Other short-term timing differences 4.4 1.8 0.2 6.4 23.9 2.8 1.4 0.4 0.4 23.3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legal enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes.
In s million 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets 23.2 23.3 Deferred tax liabilities 17.3 Net deferred tax 5.9 23.3 The UK deferred tax asset of 13.9 million 2017: 15.6 million is recognised on the basis of the UK business performance in the year and the forecast approved by management.
Other deferred tax assets of 9.3 million 2017: 7.7 million arise in the other jurisdictions primarily Australia in which the Group operate.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse.
The date enacted or substantively enacted for the relevant periods of reversal are: 19% from 1 April 2017 2017: 19% and 17% from 1 April 2020 in the UK and 30% in Australia.
Unrecognised deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits Deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised are attributable to the following: Gross Tax Gross Tax In s million 2018 2018 2017 2017 Tax losses revenue in nature 144.8 36.6 143.5 36.7 Tax losses capital in nature 22.1 3.8 22.1 3.8 166.9 40.4 165.6 40.5 Gross Tax Gross Tax In s million 2018 2018 2017 2017 Unrecognised deductible temporary differences 7.7 2.1 7.7 2.6 In tax losses revenue in nature 1.8 million is due to expire in 2023, 0.9 million in 2027, 5.2 million in 2033 and 9.8 million in 2037.
The remaining tax losses have no fixed expiry date.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 124 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
Deferred tax continued Unrecognised taxable temporary differences associated with investments and interests Taxable temporary differences in relation to investments in subsidiaries, for which deferred tax liabilities havenot been recognised are attributable to the following: In s million 2018 2017 Foreign subsidiaries 7.2 5.9 Tax thereon 0.4 0.3 17.
Trade and other receivables In s million 2018 2017 Trade receivables 647.1 604.3 Less provision for impairment 13.8 18.2 Net trade receivables 633.3 586.1 Accrued income 326.3 273.9 Prepayments and other debtors 50.8 48.2 1,010.4 908.2 The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade receivables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period taken is 39 days 2017: 39 days.
Accrued income primarily arises where temporary workers have provided their services but the amount incurred and margin earned thereon has yet to be invoiced onto the client due to timing.
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables not impaired is as follows: In s million 2018 2017 Not yet due 567.7 537.0 Up to one month past due 58.2 42.5 One to three months past due 7.4 6.6 633.3 586.1 The Groups exposure to foreign currency translation is primarily in respect of the Euro and the Australian Dollar.
The sensitivity of a 1 cent change in the year end closing exchange rates in respect of the Euro and Australian Dollar would result in a 2.6 million and 0.5 million movement in trade receivables respectively.
The movement on the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: In s million 2018 2017 At 1 July 18.2 16.3 Exchange movement 0.2 0.5 Charge for the year 3.6 3.2 Uncollectable amounts written off 7.8 1.8 At 30 June 13.8 18.2 The increase in uncollectable amounts written off during the year are primarily due to the removal of a number of historic debtors from the trade receivables ledger that are insolvent or deemed irrecoverable.
These debtors had previously been fully provided for within the provision for impairment.
The ageing of impaired trade receivables relates primarily to trade receivables over three months past due.
Credit risk The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a likely reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The Group reduces risk through its credit control process and by contractual arrangements with other recruitment agencies in situations where the Group invoices on their behalf.
The Groups exposure is spread over a large number of customers.
The risk disclosures contained on pages 38 to 42 within the Strategic Report form part of these financial statements.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 125 18.
Cash and cash equivalents In s million 2018 2017 Cash at bank and in hand 122.9 112.0 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 1.4% 2017: 1.3%.
The average maturity of short-term deposits was one day 2017: one day.
Capital management The Boards priorities for free cash flow are to fund the Groups investment and development, maintain a strong balance sheet and deliver a sustainable dividend at a level that is affordable and appropriate.
The Board targets a dividend cover range of 2.0x to 3.0x full year earnings and remains committed to paying a sustainable and progressive dividend.
Further details including the Groups policy on uses of excess free cash flow and payment of special dividends can be found in the Financial Review on page 37.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net cash debt, which is represented by cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and overdrafts note 20 and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Group is not restricted to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Risk management A description of the Groups treasury policy and controls is included in the Financial Review on page 37.
Cash management and foreign exchange risk The Groups cash management policy is to minimise interest payments by closely managing Group cash balances and external borrowings.
Euro-denominated cash positions are managed centrally using a cash concentration arrangement which provides visibility over participating country bank balances on a daily basis.
Any Group surplus balance is used to repay any maturing loans under the Groups revolving credit facility or invested in overnight money market funds.
As the Group holds a sterling-denominated debt facility and generates significant foreign currency cash flows, the Board considers it appropriate in certain cases to use derivative financial instruments as part of its day-to-day cash management to reduce the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Groups operating profit exposure to foreign currency translation is primarily in respect of the Euro and the Australian Dollar.
The sensitivity of a 1 cent change in the average exchange rates for the year in respect of the Euro and Australian Dollar would result in a 1.2 million and 0.4 million change in operating profit respectively.
The Group does not use derivatives to hedge balance sheet and income statement translation exposure.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on floating rate bank loans and overdrafts.
It is the Groups policy to limit its exposure to fluctuating interest rates by selectively hedging interest rate risk using derivative financial instruments, however there were no interest rate swaps held by the Group during the current or prior year.
Cash and cash equivalents carry interest at floating rates based on local money market rates.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk arises primarily from the investment of surplus funds.
Risks are closely monitored using credit ratings assigned to financial institutions by international credit rating agencies.
The Group restricts transactions to banks and money market funds that have an acceptable credit profile and limits its exposure to each institution accordingly.
Derivative financial instruments As at 30 June 2018, the Group had entered into one forward exchange contract arrangement with a counterparty bank: In s million 2018 2017 Net derivative liability 0.1 As set out in note 18 and in the Treasury management section of the Financial Review on page 37, in certain cases the Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its foreign exchange exposures as part of its day-to-day cash management.
As at 30 June 2018, the Group had entered into one forward exchange contract arrangement with a counterparty bank 2017: four forward contracts.
The fair market value of the contract as at 30 June 2018 gave rise to a loss resulting in the presentation of a net derivative liability of 0.1million 2017: nil in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes and all transactions are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
These instruments are classified as Level 2 in the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 126 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19.
Derivative financial instruments continued Categories of financial assets and liabilities held by the Group are as shown below: In s million 2018 2017 Financial assets Net trade receivables 633.3 586.1 Accrued income 326.3 273.9 Cash and cash equivalents 122.9 112.0 1,082.5 972.0 Financial liabilities Trade creditors 244.7 213.9 Other creditors 45.0 40.8 Accruals 390.5 352.7 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 Bank loans and overdrafts 0.4 680.3 607.8 20.
Bank loans and overdrafts In s million 2018 2017 Overdrafts 0.4 Risk management A description of the Groups treasury policy and controls is included in the Financial Review on page 37.
Committed facilities The Group has a 210 million unsecured revolving credit facility which expires in April 2020.
The financial covenants require the Groups interest cover ratio to be at least 4:1 and its leverage ratio net debt to EBITDA to be no greater than 2.5:1.
The interest rate of the facility is based on a ratchet mechanism with a margin payable over LIBOR in the range of 0.90% to 1.55%.
At 30 June 2018, 210 million of the committed facility was undrawn.
Maturities of bank loans and overdrafts The maturity of borrowings are as follows: In s million 2018 2017 Within one year 0.4 Fair values of financial assets and bank loans and overdrafts The fair value of financial assets and bank loans and overdrafts is not materially different to their book value due to the short-term maturity of the instruments, which are based on floating rates.
The interest rate profile of bank loans and overdrafts is as follows: In s million 2018 2017 Floating rate sterling 0.4 The floating rate liabilities comprise bank loans and unsecured overdrafts bearing interest at rates based on local market rates.
Interest rates The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 2018 2017 Bank borrowings 2.0% 2.2% For each 25 basis point fall or rise in the average LIBOR rate in the year there would be a reduction or increase in profit before tax by approximately 0.1 million.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 127 21.
Trade and other payables In s million 2018 2017 Current Trade creditors 244.7 213.9 Other tax and social security 77.8 69.1 Other creditors 45.0 40.8 Accruals 390.5 352.7 758.0 676.5 The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 33 days 2017: 32 days.
Accruals primarily relate to the remuneration costs for temporary workers and other agencies that have provided their services but remuneration has yet to be made due to timing.
Retirement benefit surplus obligations The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes in the UK and in other countries.
The Groups principal schemes are within the UK where the Group operates one defined contribution scheme and two defined benefit schemes.
The majority of overseas arrangements are either defined contribution or government-sponsored schemes and these arrangements are not material in the context of the Group results.
The total cost charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in relation to these overseas arrangements was 10.9 million 2017: 10.6 million.
UK Defined Contribution Scheme The Groups principal defined contribution retirement benefit scheme is the Hays Group Personal Pension Plan which is operated for all qualifying employees and is funded via an employee salary sacrifice arrangement, and for qualifying employees additional employer contributions.
Employer contributions are in the range of 2% to 12% of pensionable salary depending on the level of employee contribution and seniority.
The total cost charged to the Consolidated Income Statement of 4.1 million 2017: 4.0 million represents employers contributions payable to the money purchase arrangements.
There were no contributions outstanding at the end of the current year or prior year.
The assets of the money purchase arrangements are held separately from those of the Group.
UK Defined Benefit Schemes The Groups principal defined benefit schemes are the Hays Pension Scheme and the Hays Supplementary Scheme both in the UK.
The Hays Pension Scheme is a funded final salary defined benefit scheme providing pensions and death benefits to members.
The Hays Supplementary Scheme is an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme for employees who were subject to HMRCs earnings cap on pensionable salary.
The Schemes were closed to future accrual from 30 June 2012 with pensions calculated up until the point of closure.
The Schemes are governed by a trustee board, which is independent of the Group and are subject to full actuarial valuation on a triennial basis.
The last formal actuarial valuation of the Hays Pension Scheme was performed at 30 June 2015 and quantified the deficit at c. 95 million.
A revised deficit funding schedule was agreed with effect from 1 July 2015 which maintained the annual contribution at its previous level, subject to a 3% per annum fixed uplift over a period of just under 10 years.
During the year ended 30 June 2018, the Group made a contribution of 14.8 million to the Hays Pension Scheme 2017: 14.4 million in accordance with the agreed deficit funding schedule.
The cash contributions during the year mainly related to deficit funding payments.
In respect of IFRIC 14, The Hays Pension Scheme Definitive Deed and Rules is considered to provide Hays with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets and therefore the recognition of a net defined benefit scheme asset is not restricted and agreements to make funding contributions do not give rise to any additional liabilities in respect of the scheme.
The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity-specific or scheme-specific risks.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 128 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Retirement benefit surplus obligations continued The net amount included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet arising from the Groups surplus obligations in respect of its defined benefit pension schemes is as follows: In s million 2018 2017 Present value of defined benefit obligations 716.9 784.9 Less fair value of defined benefit scheme assets: Equities 85.5 119.3 Bonds and gilts 339.5 320.9 Absolute return funds 37.7 46.7 LDI funds 258.5 237.0 Real estate 50.7 48.6 Cash 20.9 12.2 Total fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 792.8 784.7 Net asset liability arising from defined benefit obligation 75.9 0.2 In s million Quoted Unquoted Total Asset category Equities 85.5 85.5 Bonds and gilts 154.3 185.2 339.5 Absolute return funds 37.7 37.7 LDI funds 857.3 598.8 258.5 Real estate 50.7 50.7 Cash 21.4 0.5 20.9 Total scheme assets 1,156.2 363.4 792.8 The trustee board is responsible for determining the Hays pension schemes investment strategy, after taking advice from the Schemes investment advisor Mercer Limited.
The investment objective for the trustee of the Scheme is to maintain a portfolio of suitable assets of appropriate liquidity which will generate investment returns to meet, together with future contributions, the benefits of the defined benefit scheme as they fall due.
The current strategy is to hold investments that share characteristics with the long-term liabilities of the Scheme.
The majority of assets are invested in equities, corporate bonds and a Liability Driven Investments LDI portfolio.
The Scheme assets do not include any directly held shares issued by the Company or property occupied by the Company.
The fair value of financial instruments has been determined using the fair value hierarchy.
Where such quoted prices are unavailable, the price of a recent transaction for an identical asset, adjusted if necessary, is used.
Where quoted prices are not available and recent transactions of an identical asset on their own are either unavailable or not a good estimate of fair value, valuation techniques are employed using observable market data and non-observable data.
In relation to the LDI funds the valuations have been determined as follows: Repurchase agreements where the Scheme has sold assets with the agreement to repurchase at a fixed date and price are included in the financial statements at the fair value of the repurchase price as a liability.
The assets sold are reported in at their fair value reflecting that the Scheme retains the risks and rewards of ownership of those assets.
The fair value of the forward currency contracts is based on market forward exchange rates at the year end and determined as the gain or loss that would arise if the outstanding contract was matched at the year end with an equal and opposite contract.
Swaps represent current value of future cash flows arising from the swap determined using discounted cash flow models and market data at the reporting date.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 129 The analysis of the LDI funds included within the pension scheme assets is as follows: In s million Quoted Unquoted Total LDI funds summary valuation Corporate bonds 16.2 16.2 Government bonds 380.7 380.7 Government index-linked 455.6 455.6 Interest rate swaps 74.9 74.9 Fixed incomes futures 24.2 24.2 Liquidity 4.8 4.8 Gross funds 857.3 99.1 956.4 Repurchase agreements 540.2 540.2 Asset swaps 104.2 104.2 RPI swaps 29.3 29.3 Futures 24.2 24.2 Gross liabilities 697.9 697.9 Total LDI funds 857.3 598.8 258.5 The LDI portfolio is managed by Insight a Bank of New York Mellon company under an active mandate and uses government bonds and derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and gilt repurchase transactions to hedge the impact of interest rate and inflation movements in relation to the long-term liabilities.
Under the Schemes LDI strategy, if interest rates fall, the value of LDI investments will rise to help match the increase in actuarial liabilities arising from the fall in discount rate.
Similarly if interest rates rise, the LDI investments will fall in value, as will the liabilities because of the increase in the discount rate.
The extent to which the liability interest rate and inflation risk is not fully matched by the LDI funds represents the residual interest rate and inflation risk the Scheme remains exposed to.
In addition to the above risk, the LDI portfolio forms part of a diversified investment portfolio for the Scheme, with this diversification seeking to reduce investment risk.
The Scheme is subject to direct credit risk because the Scheme invests in segregated mandates with the Insight LDI portfolio.
Credit risk arising on bonds held directly within the LDI portfolio is mitigated by investing mostly in government bonds where the credit risk is minimal.
Credit risk arising on the derivatives held in the LDI mandate depends on whether the derivative is exchange traded or over the counter OTC.
OTC derivative contracts are not guaranteed by any regulated exchange and therefore the Scheme is subject to risk of failure of the counterparty.
The credit risk for OTC swaps held in the LDI portfolio is reduced by collateral arrangements.
The change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation was: In s million 2018 2017 Change in benefit obligation Opening defined benefit obligation at 1 July 784.9 726.3 Administration costs 2.3 2.2 Interest on defined benefit scheme liabilities 20.2 19.4 Net remeasurement losses change in experience assumptions 13.3 4.1 Net remeasurement gains change in demographic assumptions 26.4 Net remeasurement gains losses change in financial assumptions 31.2 70.1 Benefits and expenses paid 46.2 37.2 Closing defined benefit obligation at 30 June 716.9 784.9 Analysis of defined benefit obligation Plans that are wholly or partly funded 705.8 772.5 Plans that are wholly unfunded 11.1 12.4 Total 716.9 784.9 The defined benefit schemes liability comprises 66% 2017: 64% in respect of deferred scheme participants and 34% 2017: 36% in respect of retirees.
The weighted average duration of the UK defined benefit scheme liabilities at the end of the reporting year is 22.0 years 2017: 22.0 years.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 130 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Retirement benefit surplus obligations continued The change in the fair value of defined benefit schemes assets was: In s million 2018 2017 Change in the fair value of scheme assets Fair value of plan assets at 1 July 784.7 712.0 Interest income on defined benefit scheme assets 20.4 19.2 Return on scheme assets 18.6 75.9 Employer contributions towards funded and unfunded schemes 15.3 14.8 Benefits and expenses paid 46.2 37.2 Fair value of plan assets at 30 June 792.8 784.7 During the year the Company made deficit funding contributions of 14.8 million 2017: 14.4 million into the funded Hays Pension scheme, and made pension payments amounting to 0.5 million 2017: 0.4 million in respect of the unfunded Hays Supplementary Scheme.
The amount of deficit funding contributions expected to be paid into the funded Hays Pension scheme in the year to 30 June 2019 is 15.3 million.
Following the closure of the Schemes in 2012 future service contributions are no longer payable.
The net expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement comprised: In s million 2018 2017 Net interest credit expense 0.2 0.2 Administration costs 2.3 2.2 Net expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 2.1 2.4 The net interest credit expense and administration costs in the current year and prior year were recognised within finance costs.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows: In s million 2018 2017 The return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense 18.6 75.9 Actuarial remeasurement Net remeasurement losses change in experience assumptions 13.3 4.1 Net remeasurement gains change in demographic assumptions 26.4 Net remeasurement gains losses change in financial assumptions 31.2 70.1 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 62.9 1.7 A roll forward of the actuarial valuation of the Hays Pension Scheme to 30 June 2018 and the valuation of the Hays Supplementary Pension Scheme has been performed by an independent actuary, who is an employee of Deloitte LLP.
The key assumptions used at 30 June are listed below.
2018 2017 Discount rate 2.70% 2.65% RPI inflation 3.05% 3.30% CPI inflation 2.05% 2.30% Rate of increase of pensions in payment 3.00% 3.20% Rate of increase of pensions in deferment 2.05% 2.30% The discount rate has been constructed to reference the Deloitte AA corporate bond curve which fits a curve to iBoxx Sterling AA corporate data.
The corporate bond yield curve has been used to discount the Scheme cash flows using the rates available at each future duration and this had been converted into a single flat rate assumption to give equivalent liabilities to the Schemes cash flows.
The duration of the Schemes liabilities using this approach is circa 22 years.
The RPI inflation assumption has been set as gilt market implied RPI appropriate to the duration of the liabilities circa 22 years less a 0.2% per annum inflation risk premium.
The CPI inflation assumption has been determined as 1% per annum below the RPI assumption.
This approach for both RPI and CPI assumptions is consistent with last year.
The life expectancy assumptions have been calculated using Club Vita base tables and future improvements in line with the CMI 2017 model with a long-term improvement rate of 1.5% per annum and non-peaked short-term future improvements.
On this basis a 65-year-old current pensioner has a life expectancy of 23.6 years for males 2017: 24.5 years and 24.1 years for females 2017: 25.0 years.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 131 A sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to measure the Schemes liabilities at the year end is: Change in Impact on assumption Schemes Discount rate 0.5% 75m Inflation and pension increases allowing for caps and collars 0.5% 50m Assumed life expectancy at age 65 1 year 26m The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation to one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
In presenting the above sensitivity analysis the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Provisions In s million Discontinued Continuing Total At 1 July 2017 6.6 2.2 8.8 Credited to income statement 1.1 1.1 Utilised 0.3 0.3 At 30 June 2018 6.3 1.1 7.4 In s million 2018 2017 Current 1.2 2.6 Non-current 6.2 6.2 7.4 8.8 Discontinued provisions comprise potential exposures arising as a result of the business disposals that were completed in 2004, together with deferred employee benefits relating to former employees.
Of the total provisions of 7.4 million, 1.1 million relates to deferred employee benefit obligations, and the remaining 6.3 million relate primarily to potential warranty claim liabilities arising from the business disposals which took place in 2004.
Of the provisions that remain, 1.2 million is expected to be paid in the next 12 months and it is not possible to estimate the timing of the payments for the other items.
Called up share capital Called up, allotted and fully paid Ordinary shares of 1 pence each Share capital Share number capital thousand s million At 1 July 2017 and 30 June 2018 1,464,097 14.7 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The Company is allowed to hold 10% of issued share capital in treasury.
As at 30 June 2018, the Company held 12.8 million 2017: 21.1 million Hays plc shares in treasury.
The shares held in treasury are used to satisfy the exercises in relation to equity-settled share-based payment awards.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 132 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
Share-based payments During the year, 12.4 million 2017: 13.0 million was charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in relation to equity-settled share-based payments.
Share options At 30 June 2018 the following options had been granted and remained outstanding in respect of the Companys Ordinary shares of 1 pence each under the Companys share option schemes: Nominal value of Subscription Date Number of shares price normally shares pence share exercisable Hays UK Sharesave Scheme 182,538 1,825 142 2018 1,720,390 17,204 107 2019 680,061 6,801 143 2020 1,162,225 11,622 171 2021 3,745,214 37,452 Hays International Sharesave Scheme 71,513 715 142 2018 726,537 7,265 107 2019 479,439 4,794 143 2020 618,378 6,184 171 2021 1,895,867 18,958 Total Sharesave options outstanding 5,641,081 56,410 The Hays International Sharesave Scheme is available to employees in Australia, New Zealand, Germany, the Republic of Ireland, Canada, Hong Kong, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 2018 2017 2018 Weighted 2017 Weighted Number of average Number of average share exercise share exercise options price options price thousand pence thousand pence Sharesave Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,584 124 6,371 117 Granted during the year 1,819 171 1,409 143 Forfeited cancelled during the year 754 130 1,155 120 Exercised during the year 969 139 948 109 Expired during the year 39 131 93 104 Outstanding at the end of the year 5,641 136 5,584 124 Exercisable at the end of the year 254 142 320 131 The weighted average share price for all options exercised during the year was 182p 2017: 153p.
The options outstanding as at 30 June 2018 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.8 years.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 133 On 31 March 2018, 1.8 million Sharesave options were granted.
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on that date is 0.7 million.
In the prior year, 1.4 million Sharesave options were granted.
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted in the prior year was 0.4 million.
The inputs into the valuation model a binomial valuation model are as follows: Share price at grant 187 pence Exercise price 171 pence Expected volatility 29.6% Expected life 3.3 years Risk-free rate 0.94% Expected dividends 3.06% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
Performance Share Plan PSP and Deferred Annual Bonus DAB The PSP is designed to link reward to the key long-term value drivers of the business and to align the interests of the executive directors and approximately 320 of the global senior management population with the long-term interests of shareholders.
PSP awards are discretionary and vesting is dependent upon the achievement of performance conditions measured over either a three-year period or a one-year period with a two-year holding period.
Only the executive directors and other members of the Management Board participate in the DAB which promotes a stronger link between short-term and long-term performance through the deferral of annual bonuses into shares for a three-year period.
Further details of the schemes for the executive directors can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 86.
Details of the share awards outstanding during the year are as follows: 2018 2017 2018 Weighted 2017 Weighted Number of average Number of average share fair value share fair value options at grant options at grant thousand pence thousand pence Performance Share Plan Outstanding at the beginning of the year 21,767 131 22,688 122 Granted during the year 5,895 181 8,559 131 Exercised during the year 6,026 118 7,620 106 Lapsed during the year 1,972 130 1,860 135 Outstanding at the end of the year 19,664 152 21,767 131 The weighted average share price on the date of exercise was 187p 2017: 132p.
The options outstanding as at 30 June 2018 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.5 years.
2018 2017 2018 Weighted 2017 Weighted Number of average Number of average share fair value share fair value options at grant options at grant thousand pence thousand pence Deferred Annual Bonus Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,207 143 2,663 130 Granted during the year 651 184 595 138 Exercised during the year 918 133 1,051 107 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,940 162 2,207 143 The weighted average share price on the date of exercise was 185p 2017: 134p.
The options outstanding as at 30 June 2018 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.2 years.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 134 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
Related parties Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Management Board and non-executive directors, who are key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures and represents the total compensation costs incurred by the Group in respect of remuneration, not the benefit to the individuals.
Further information about the remuneration of executive and non-executive directors is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 74 and 82.
In s million 2018 2017 Short-term employee benefits 11.2 9.0 Share-based payments 4.7 6.4 15.9 15.4 Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 22.
Operating lease arrangements The Group as lessee In s million 2018 2017 Land and buildings 37.0 34.7 Motor vehicles 8.3 7.4 Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense for the year 45.3 42.1 At 30 June 2018, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due as follows: In s million 2018 2017 Within one year 53.2 46.7 Between two and five years 121.0 102.0 After five years 34.0 20.9 208.2 169.6 IFRS 16 Leases will become effective in the Groups financial year 2020 and will primarily change the lease accounting requirements for lessees as currently disclosed above.
Movement in net cash debt 1 July Cash Exchange 30 June In s million 2017 flow movement 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 112.0 13.0 2.1 122.9 Bank loans and overdrafts 0.4 0.4 Net cash 111.6 13.4 2.1 122.9 The table above is presented as additional information to show movement in net cash debt, defined as cash and cash equivalents less bank loans and overdrafts.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 135 29.
Acquisition liabilities In s million Total At 1 July 2017 13.6 Exchange adjustments 0.5 Cash paid to acquire remaining shareholding 13.7 Interest unwind on acquisition liability 0.6 At 30 June 2018 Acquisition liabilities related to the deferred consideration payable following the acquisition of 80% of Veredus Corp. a pure play US IT staffing company in December 2014.
The business was acquired for a total cash consideration of 36.1 million.
The deferred consideration was subject to a put call arrangement which provided Hays with an option to acquire the remaining 20% of the equity from the shareholders.
On 17 January 2017 there was an amendment to the arrangement that fixed the purchase price for the remaining 20% of the equity from shareholders at $18.5 million.
On 19 January 2018, Hays exercised the option to acquire the remaining 20% shareholding of Veredus Holdings inc. in the USA and paid $18.5 million 13.7 million to the remaining shareholders.
Hays now owns 100% of the business.
The unwind of the discount in the year of 0.6million is recognised as a finance cost in the income statement.
A liability of 13.6 million was recognised in the prior year representing managements best estimate of the amount payable, discounted to its present value.
Subsequent events The final dividend for 2018 of 2.75 pence per share 40.1 million along with a special dividend of 5.00 pence per share 72.9 million will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 14 November 2018 and has not been included as a liability as at 30 June 2018.
On 6 August 2018, Hays Pension Trustee Limited, in agreement with Hays plc, entered into a bulk purchase annuity policy buy-in contract with Canada Life Limited for a premium of 270.6 million in respect of insuring all future payments to the pensioner population of the Hays defined benefit scheme as at 31 December 2017.
The pension buy-in transaction was funded through the existing investment assets held by the Trustee on behalf of the pension scheme.
This material balance sheet fide-risking exercise is in line with Hays long-term strategy to reduce future volatility of the Groups defined benefit schemes, and their financial impact on the Group.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 136 HAYS PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET AT 30 JUNE 2018 In s million Note 2018 2017 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.3 Investment in subsidiaries 4 743.9 910.4 Trade and other receivables 5 123.9 150.5 Deferred tax assets 6 0.4 0.2 Retirement benefit surplus 9 75.9 944.7 1,061.4 Current assets Trade and other receivables 7 21.7 12.7 Cash and bank balances 14.0 1.0 35.7 13.7 Total assets 980.4 1,075.1 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 8 38.6 379.2 Net current liabilities 2.9 365.5 Total assets less current liabilities 941.8 695.9 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 6 14.5 Retirement benefit obligations 9 0.2 Provisions 10 5.8 5.0 20.3 5.2 Total liabilities 58.9 384.4 Net assets 921.5 690.7 Equity Called up share capital 14.7 14.7 Share premium 369.6 369.6 Capital redemption reserve 2.7 2.7 Retained earnings 512.8 282.3 Equity reserve 21.7 21.4 Total equity 921.5 690.7 The financial statements of Hays plc, registered number 2150950, set out on pages 136 to 143 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 29 August 2018.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors A R Cox P Venables Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 137 HAYS PLC COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 Called up Capital share Share redemption Retained Equity Total In s million capital premium reserve earnings reserve equity At 1 July 2017 14.7 369.6 2.7 282.3 21.4 690.7 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 62.9 62.9 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 11.9 11.9 Net income recognised in other comprehensive income 51.0 51.0 Profit for the year 277.3 277.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 328.3 328.3 Dividends paid 109.7 109.7 Share-based payments 11.9 0.3 12.2 At 30 June 2018 14.7 369.6 2.7 512.8 21.7 921.5 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2017 Called up Capital share Share redemption Retained Equity Total In s million capital premium reserve earnings reserve equity At 1 July 2016 14.7 369.6 2.7 265.2 20.2 672.4 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 1.7 1.7 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 1.4 1.4 Net income recognised in other comprehensive income 3.1 3.1 Profit for the year 45.3 45.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 48.4 48.4 Dividends paid 42.6 42.6 Share-based payments 11.3 1.2 12.5 At 30 June 2017 14.7 369.6 2.7 282.3 21.4 690.7 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 138 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with Financial Reporting standard 101 FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys income statement has not been presented.
The Company, as permitted by FRS101, has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, certain disclosures regarding the Companys capital, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow statement, certain related party transactions and the effect of future accounting standards not yet adopted.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are provided in the Group Financial Statements of Hays plc.
The significant accounting policies and significant judgments and key estimates relevant to the Company are the same as those set out in note 2 and note 3 to the Group Financial Statements.
Employee information There are no staff employed by the Company 2017: none.
Therefore no remuneration has been disclosed.
Details of directors emoluments and interests are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 86 of the Annual Report.
Profit for the year Hays plc has not presented its own income statement and related notes as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit for the financial year in the Hays plc Company Financial Statements is 277.3 million 2017: profit 45.3 million.
Investment in subsidiaries In s million 2018 2017 Cost At 1 July 910.4 910.4 Provision for impairment Charge during the year 166.5 Total At 30 June 743.9 910.4 Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment in recoverable value.
The impairment during the year of 166.5 million relates to Hays Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group are listed in note 11.
Trade and other receivables: amounts falling due after more than one year In s million 2018 2017 Prepayments 0.6 1.0 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 123.3 149.5 123.9 150.5 The Company charges interest on amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 1%.
Deferred tax In s million 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets 0.4 0.2 Deferred tax liabilities 14.5 Net deferred tax 14.1 0.2 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 139 7.
Trade and other receivables: amounts falling due within one year In s million 2018 2017 Corporation tax debtor 18.7 9.9 Prepayments 3.0 2.8 21.7 12.7 8.
Trade and other payables In s million 2018 2017 Accruals 22.0 18.4 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 16.6 360.8 38.6 379.2 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings are repayable on demand.
The Company is charged interest on amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings at a rate of three-month LIBOR less 1%.
Retirement benefit surplus obligations In s million 2018 2017 Net asset liability arising from defined benefit obligation 75.9 0.2 The details of this UK scheme, for which Hays plc is the sponsoring employer, are set out in note 22 to the Group Financial Statements.
Provisions In s million At 1 July 2017 5.0 Charged to the income statement 1.1 Utilised during the year 0.3 At 30 June 2018 5.8 Provisions comprise of potential exposures arising as a result of the business disposals relating to the Group transformation that concluded in 2004.
It is not possible to estimate the timing of payments against the remaining provisions.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 140 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11.
Subsidiaries Registered Address and Country of Incorporation Hays Specialist Recruitment Australia Pty Limited Level 13, The Chifley Tower, 2 Chifley Square, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia Hays sterreich GmbH Europaplatz 3 5, 1150 Wien, Austria Hays Professional Solutions sterreich GmbH Europaplatz 3 5, 1150 Wien, Austria Hays NV B 8500 Kortrijk, Brugsesteenweg 255 box 2, Belgium Hays Services NV B 8500 Kortrijk, Brugsesteenweg 255 box 2, Belgium Hays Recruitment and Selection Ltda Rua Pequetita, No.
215, 13th Floor, Sao Paulo, Brazil Hays Specialist Recruitment Canada Inc. 1500 Don Mills Road, Suite 402, North York, Ontario, M3B 3K4, Canada Hays Especialistas En Reclutamiento Limitada Cerro El Plomo 5630, Of.
7560742, Santiago, Chile Hays Specialist Recruitment Shanghai Co. Limited Unit 0304, 19 F Shui On Plaza, 333 Huaihai Road, Lot No.
7 Luwan District, 90% owned Shanghai 200020, CN, 0, China Hays Colombia SAS AK 45 No.
108-27 Torre 2 Oficina 1105, Bogot, Colombia Hays Czech Republic s. r. o Olivova 4 2096, 110 00 Praha 1, Czech Republic Hays Information Technology s. r. o Olivova 4 2096, 110 00 Praha 1, Czech Republic Hays Specialist Recruitment Denmark A S Kongens Nytorv 8, 1050 Kbenhavn K, Denmark Axis Resources Holding Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Axis Resources Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom EPS Pension Trustees Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom H101 Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Commercial Services Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays Finance Technology Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays Group Holdings Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Healthcare Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Holdings Ltd 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays International Holdings Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Life Sciences Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Nominees Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Overseas Holdings Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Pension Trustee Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Personnel Managed Solutions Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays Personnel Payroll Services Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays Personnel Services Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays Pharma Consulting Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays Pharma Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays Project Solutions Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Property Holdings Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays Recruitment Services Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Social Care Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Specialist Recruitment Holdings Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays Specialist Recruitment Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays SRA Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays Stakeholder Life Assurance Trustee Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Hays ZMB Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom James Harvard International Group Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Krooter Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Myriad Computer Services Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Oval 1620 Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Owen, Thornhill and Harper Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Paperstream Limited 250 Euston Road, London, NW1 2AF, United Kingdom Recruitment Solutions Group Limited IOM First Names House, Victoria Road, Douglas, IM2 4DF, Isle of Man RSG EBT Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Weyside 23 Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 141 Registered Address and Country of Incorporation Weyside Group Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Weyside Office Services Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Weyside Telecoms Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Weyside Turngate Limited In Liquidation 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom Hays BTP & Immobilier SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Clinical Research SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Consulting SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Corporate SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Est SASU 34 rue Stanislas, 54000 Nancy, France Hays Executive SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Finance SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays France SAS 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Ile fide France SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays IT Services SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Life Sciences Consulting SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Life Sciences Services SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Medias SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Mditerrane SASU 369 371 Promenade des Anglais Immeuble Crystal Palace, 06000 Nice, France Hays Nord Est SASU 6, rue Jean Roisin, 59000 Lille, France Hays Ouest SASU 36 boulevard Guist'Hau, 44000 Nantes, France Hays Outsourced Solutions SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Pharma Consulting SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Pharma SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Pharma Services SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Pharma Technology SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Pharma Technology Consulting SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Pharma Technology Services SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays Sud Est SASU Immeuble Grand Bazar, 2 rue Grolee, 69002 Lyon, France Hays Sud Ouest SASU 23 rue Lafayette, 31000 Toulouse, France Hays Talent Solutions SASU 23 rue Lafayette, 31000 Toulouse, France Hays Travail Temporaire SASU 147 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, France Hays AG Willy-Brandt-Platz 1-3, 68161 Mannheim, Germany Hays Talent Solutions GmbH Vlklinger Strae 4, 40219 Dsseldorf, Germany Hays Holding GmbH Willy-Brandt-Platz 1-3, 68161 Mannheim, Germany Hays Technology Solutions GmbH Willy-Brandt-Platz 1-3, 68161 Mannheim, Germany Hays Professional Solutions GmbH Vlklinger Strae 4, 40219 Dsseldorf, Germany Hays Hong Kong Limited Unit 6604-06, 66 F, International Commerce Centre, 1 Austin Road West, Kowloon, Hong Kong Hays Specialist Recruitment Hong Kong Limited Unit 6604-06, 66 F, International Commerce Centre, 1 Austin Road West, Kowloon, Hong Kong Hays Hungary Kft.
1054 Budapest, Szabadsg tr 7, Bank Center, Hungary Hays Business Solutions Private Limited Gurgaon Buildings 9B, 11th Floor, DLF Cyber City, Gurgaon, Haryana-HR, India, 122002 Hays Specialist Recruitment Private Limited Level 3, Neo Vikram, New Link Road, Above Audi Showroom, Andheri West, Mumbai, Maharashtra-MH, India, 400053 Hays Business Services Ireland Limited 26 27a Grafton St, Dublin 2, Ireland Hays Specialist Recruitment Ireland Limited 26 27a Grafton St, Dublin 2, Ireland Hays Professional Services S. r. l Corso Italia 13, CAP 20122, Milano, Italy Hays Solutions S. r. l Corso Italia 13, CAP 20122, Milano, Italy Hays SRL Corso Italia 13, CAP 20122, Milano, Italy Hays Resource Management Japan K. K. Izumi Garden Tower 28F 1-6-1 Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106-6028, Japan Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 142 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11.
Subsidiaries continued Registered Address and Country of Incorporation Hays Specialist Recruitment Japan K. K. Izumi Garden Tower 28F 1-6-1 Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106-6028, Japan Hays Finance Jersey Limited 44 Esplande St, Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG Hays S. a. r. l 65 Avenue fide la Gare L 1611, Luxembourg Hays Travail Temporaire Luxembourg 65 Avenue fide la Gare L 1611, Luxembourg Agensi Pekerjaan Hays Specialist Recruitment Malaysia Sdn.
B4-3A-6, Solaris Dutamas, No 1, Jalan Dutamas 1, 49% owned 50480 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Hays Solution Sdn.
B4-3A-6, Solaris Dutamas, No 1, Jalan Dutamas 1, 50480 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Hays Specialist Recruitment Holdings Sdn.
B4-3A-6, Solaris Dutamas, No 1, Jalan Dutamas 1, 50480 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Hays Flex.
S. A. fide C. V. Avenida Paseo fide las Palmas No.
405, 1003, Colonia Lomas fide Chapultepec VII Seccion, C. P. 11000, Mxico, CD.
Hays Servicios S. A. fide C. V. Avenida Paseo fide las Palmas No.
Hays, S. A. fide C. V. Avenida Paseo fide las Palmas No.
Hays B. V. Ellen Pankhurststraat 1G, NL-5032 MD, Tilburg, Netherlands Hays Commercial Services B. V. Ellen Pankhurststraat 1G, NL-5032 MD, Tilburg, Netherlands Hays Holdings B. V. Ellen Pankhurststraat 1G, NL-5032 MD, Tilburg, Netherlands Hays Services B. V. Ellen Pankhurststraat 1G, NL-5032 MD, Tilburg, Netherlands Hays Temp B. V. Ellen Pankhurststraat 1G, NL-5032 MD, Tilburg, Netherlands Hays Specialist Recruitment NZ Limited Level 12, Pwc Tower, 188 Quay Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand Hays Document Management Private Limited 6th Floor, AWT Plaza, I. I Chundrigar Road, Karachi, Pakistan Hays Outsourcing Sp.
z. o. o. Zota 59, 00-120 Warszawa, Poland Hays Poland Sp.
z. o. o. Zota 59, 00-120 Warszawa, Poland Hays Poland Centre of Excellence sp.
z. o. o. Zota 59, 00-120 Warszawa, Poland HaysP Recrutamento Seleccao e Empresa fide Trabalho Temporario Avenida da Republica, no 90 1 andar, frao 4, Unipessoal LDA 1600-206 Lisbon, Portugal Hays Specialist Recruitment Romania SRL 30 Frumoasa Street, 1st Floor, zone A, module 1.32, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Hays Business Solutions Limited Liability Company Room 35, premises 1, 3 floor, bld.
Hays IT Solutions Limited Liability Company Room 35, premises 1, 3 floor, bld.
Hays Specialist Recruitment Limited Liability Company Room 35, premises 1, 3 floor, bld.
Hays Specialist Recruitment P. T. E Limited 80 Raffles Place, #27-20 UOB Plaza 2, Singapore Hays Business Services S. L. Paseo fide la Castellana 81, 28046 Madrid, Spain Hays Personnel Espana Empresa fide Trabajo Temporal SA Paseo fide la Castellana 81, 28046 Madrid, Spain Hays Personnel Services Espana SA Paseo fide la Castellana 81, 28046 Madrid, Spain Hays Specialist Recruitment AB Stureplan 4 C, 114 35, Stockholm, Sweden Hays Schweiz AG Nschelerstrasse 32, CH-8001 Zurich, Switzerland Hays Talent Solutions Schweiz GmbH Nschelerstrasse 32, CH-8001 Zurich, Switzerland Hays FZ-LLC Block 19, 1st Floor, Office F-02, Knowledge Village, Dubai 500340, United Arab Emirates 3 Story Software LLC 615 West Johnson Ave #202 Cheshire, CT 06410 USA Hays Holding Corporation 160 Greentree Dr. Suite 101 Dover fide 19904 USA Hays Specialist Recruitment LLC 160 Greentree Dr. Suite 101 Dover fide 19904 USA Hays Talent Solutions LLC 160 Greentree Dr. Suite 101 Dover fide 19904 USA Hays USA Holdings Inc 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, USA Veredus Corporation 4300 W Cypress Street Suite 900 Tampa, FL 33607 USA Veredus Government Solutions, LLC 101 E. Kennedy Blvd Suite 2700 Tampa, FL 33602 USA Veredus Holdings.
Inc. 1200 South Pine Island Road, Plantation FL 33324 USA Veredus, LLC 1200 South Pine Island Road, Plantation FL 33324 USA Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 143 As at 30 June 2018, Hays plc and or a subsidiary or subsidiaries in aggregate owned 100% of each class of the issued shares of each of these companies with the exception of companies marked with an asterisk in which case each class of issued shares held was as stated.
Shares in companies marked with a were owned directly by Hays plc.
All other companies were owned by a subsidiary or subsidiaries of Hays plc.
Other related party transactions Hays plc has taken advantage of the exemption granted under paragraph 8 k of FRS101 not to disclose transactions with fellow wholly owned subsidiaries.
Transactions entered into and trading balances outstanding that were owed to Hays plc at 30 June 2018 with other related parties was 0.9 million 2017: 1.1 million.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 145 Shareholder Information Supporting information 146 Financial calendar forinvestors.
147 Hays online 148 Glossary Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
