148 GLOSSARY Term Definition Contractor Freelance worker who is paid to work on a specific project or task.
Typically works on a project basis for a fixed period of time, usually around 6-12 months Conversion Rate Proportion of our net fees which is converted into operating profit Core Dividend Interim and final dividends paid to shareholders.
Our target dividend cover is within 2.0x to 3.0x EPS currently 3.0x Find & Engage Our proprietary recruitment model, which combines the best practices and skills of traditional hiring, and then incorporates new technology and data sciences to locate candidates at scale Flex Flexible worker Encompasses both Temp and Contractor workers Free Cash Flow Cash generated by operations less tax paid and net interest paid Hays Talent Solutions Our outsourced services business, which includes our MSP and RPO contracts, and represents c. 15% of Group net fees International Relating to our non-UK&I business Job Churn Confidence among businesses to hire skilled people, aligned to candidate confidence to move jobs Like-for-like Organic Year-on-year growth of net fees or profits of Hays continuing operations, at constant currency Managed Service Programmes The transfer of all or part of the management of a clients temporary staffing hiring activities on an MSP ongoing basis Megatrend Powerful macro industry theme which we regard as shaping recruitment markets and driving net fee growth Net Fees As defined in note 2e to the Consolidated Financial Statements Perm Candidate placed with a client in a permanent role Perm Gross Margin Our percentage placement fee, usually based on the Perm candidates base salary Profit Drop-through The additional like-for-like profit which flows to our bottom line from incremental like-for-like net fees in a particular period.
Expressed as a percentage Recruitment Process The transfer of all or part of a clients permanent recruitment processes on an ongoing basis Outsourcing RPO contracts Special Dividend Dividends proposed by the Board over and above our Core Dividends.
We have a policy of distributing any net cash on our balance sheet at year end above c. 50m to shareholders, assuming a positive outlook Specialism 20 broad areas, usually grouped by industry, in which we are experts, e. g. Construction & Property, Accountancy & Finance Talent Pools Collective term for active candidate databases Temp Worker engaged on a short-term basis to fill a skills gap for a pre-agreed period of time Turnover As defined in note 2d to the Consolidated Financial Statements Underlying Temp Gross Margin Temp net fees divided by Temp gross revenue.
Relates solely to Temp placements where we generate net fees, and specifically excludes: transactions where we act as agent for workers supplied by third-party agencies: arrangements relating to major payrolling services.
Usually expressed as a percentage COUNTRY LIST Australia Italy Brazil New Zealand Luxembourg Canada Germany The Netherlands Chile UK Poland Colombia Ireland Portugal Mexico Austria Romania USA Belgium Russia China Czech Republic Spain India Denmark Sweden Japan France Switzerland Malaysia Hungary UAE Singapore Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Designed by SALTERBAXTER An MSL Company Copyright Hays plc 2018 This report has been printed on Heaven 42 an FSC certified HAYS, the Corporate and Sector H devices, paper containing 100% ECF pulp and manufactured at a mill Recruiting experts worldwide, the HAYS Recruiting accredited with the ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
experts worldwide logo, and Powering the World of Printed by CPI Colour.
CPI Colour are ISO14001 certified, Work are trademarks of Hays plc.
The Corporate and CarbonNeutral, Alcohol Free and are FSC Chain of Custody Sector H devices are original designs protected by certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
