Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 145 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders: Registrar Service What it offers How to participate The Companys registrar is: Shareholder You can access details of your You can register at Equiniti Limited service shareholding and a range of other www.
co. uk Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing shareholder services.
co. uk Enquiries You can inform Equiniti of lost share Please contact Equiniti.
1 Telephone: 0371 384 2843 relating to your certificates, dividend warrants or tax International: 44 121 415 7047 shareholding vouchers, change of address or if Textphone: 0371 384 2255 you would like to transfer shares to another person.
ID fraud and unsolicited mail Dividend payments Dividends may be paid directly into your Complete a dividend bank Share-related fraud and identity theft affects bank or building society account.
Tax mandate instruction form shareholders of many companies and we urge vouchers will continue to be sent to the which can be downloaded you to be vigilant.
If you receive any shareholders registered address.
from unsolicited mail offering advice, you should www.
co. uk or inform Equiniti immediately.
As the Companys share register is, by law, Dividend payment Equiniti can convert your dividend in For more details open to public inspection, shareholders may direct to bank over 83 currencies to over 90 countries please visit receive unsolicited mail from organisations account for overseas worldwide and send it directly to your www.
co. uk that use it as a mailing list.
To reduce the shareholders bank account.
amount of unsolicited mail you receive, contact the Mailing Preference Service, Dividend The Company has a DRIP to allow Further information is FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
Reinvestment shareholders to reinvest the cash available from the Share Telephone: 0345 0700 705.
Plan DRIP dividend that they receive in Hays plc Dividend helpline on Website: www.
uk shares on competitive dealing terms.
co. uk ShareGift Amalgamation If you receive more than one copy of the Please contact Equiniti.
ShareGift is a charity share donation of accounts Annual Report & Financial Statements, scheme for shareholders and is administered it could be because you have more by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is SHAREHOLDER than one record on the register.
Equiniti especially useful for thoseshareholders can amalgamate your accounts into who wish to dispose ofasmall number of one record.
shares whose value makes it uneconomical Share dealing Equiniti offers Shareview Dealing, a You can deal in your to sell on a normal commission basis.
2 service service which allows you to sell your shares on the internet Further information canbe obtained from Hays plc shares or add to your holding if or by phone.
If you wish to information about this Website deal, you will need your account service and for details The Company has a corporate website at shareholder reference number which of the rates, log on to INFORMATION appears on your share certificate.
com, which holds, amongst other information, a copy of our latest Annual dealing or telephone Alternatively, if you hold a share Equiniti on 0345 603 7037 Report & Financial Statements and copies certificate, you can also use any of all announcements made over the last between 8.00am and bank, building society or stockbroker 4.30pm, Monday 12 months.
offering share dealing facilities to buy to Friday.
Registered office 250 Euston Road Individual Savings Investors in Hays plc Ordinary shares For further information 2 Accounts ISAs may take advantage of a low-cost or to apply for an ISA or London NW1 2AF individual savings account ISA and or investment account, visit an investment account where they can Equinitis website at Registered in England & Wales no.
2150950 Telephone: 44 0 20 7383 2266 hold their Hays plc shares electronically.
co. uk The ISA and investment account are dealing or telephone them Company Secretary operated by Equiniti Financial Services on 0345 300 0430.
Doug Evans Limited and are subject to standard Email: cosec@hays.
Investor Relations contact 1 L ines open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England David Phillips, Head of Investor Relations and Wales.
com 2 T he provision of share dealing services is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage inaninvestment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a professional independent financial adviser.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
