Further information Further information Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant, or other independent professional adviser immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
HgCapital Trust plc Incorporated and registered in England and Wales under number 01525583 Registered Office: Directors: Guy Wakeley 2 More London Riverside Peter Dunscombe Roger Mountford Anne West London, SE1 2AP Jim Strang Richard Brooman Annual General Meeting 2019 I am pleased to present the Notice of the Annual General Meeting the AGM of HgCapital Trust plc the Company which will be held at 2 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AP on 23 April 2019 at 11.00 a. m. to transact the business set out in the resolutions below.
The Notice of AGM sets out the business to be considered at the meeting.
The purpose of this letter is to explain certain elements of that business to you.
Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors are required to present the financial statements, Strategic Report, Directors Report and Auditors Report to the meeting.
These are contained in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 the Annual Report.
A resolution to receive the financial statements, together with the Strategic Report, Directors Report and the Auditors Report on those accounts is included as an ordinary resolution.
Resolution 2 Remuneration An advisory resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report is included.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out in the Annual Report.
Resolution 3 Final dividend The Board proposes a final dividend of 30 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018.
If approved, the recommended final dividend will be paid on 30 April 2019 to all Ordinary shareholders who are on the register of members on 22 March 2019.
The shares will be marked exdividend on 21 March 2019.
Resolutions 4 to 9 Reelection of Directors In line with the recommendations of the 2019 AIC Corporate Governance Code, all Directors of the Company are required to retire and offer themselves for reelection at each AGM.
In accordance with this requirement, Mr Mountford, Mr Brooman, Mr Dunscombe, Mr Strang, Mr Wakeley and Ms West retire and offer themselves for reelection as Directors.
Both Mr Mountford and Mr Brooman have served on the Board for a period longer than nine years.
In an investment trust which has no executive management of its own, maintaining a longterm perspective is of particular importance.
While the Board recognises the value of refreshing its composition regularly, it also considers that the continuity and experience brought to the Board by retaining some Directors with longer periods of service is an important factor in creating longterm sustainable success of the Company.
All Directors are recommended by the Board for reelection.
Full biographies of all the Directors are set out in the Annual Report on pages 103 to 105 and are also available for viewing on the Companys website http: www.
The Nomination Committee considered the Directors performance and recommended their reelection.
The Board believes it is in the best interests of shareholders that each of the Directors be reelected.
Further information can be found on page 118 of the Annual Report.
13 13 22 Resolutions 10 and 11 Reappointment and remuneration of Auditor At each meeting at which the Companys financial statements are presented to its members, the Company is required to appoint an auditor to serve until the next such meeting.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit and Valuation Committee, recommends the reelection of Grant Thornton UK LLP and this will be proposed to the AGM as Resolution 10.
Resolution 11 authorises the Directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 12 Authority to allot Ordinary shares Resolution 12 authorises the Board to allot Ordinary shares generally and unconditionally in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,110,391, representing approximately one third 33.33 per cent.
of the issued Ordinary share capital at the date of the Notice.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued No Ordinary shares will be issued at a price less than the prevailing net asset value per Ordinary share at the time of issue other then on a preemptive basis or with the prior consent of Shareholders provided in accordance with the Listing Rules.
This authority shall expire at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Resolution 13 Subdivision of shares Resolution 13 is an ordinary resolution whereby the Directors will seek authority to subdivide each existing ordinary share of 25 pence each into ten new ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each.
The resolution is conditional upon the new ordinary shares being listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Further details in respect of the Share Split can be found on page 109 of the Annual Report.
Resolution 14 Authority to disapply preemption rights Resolution 14 is a special resolution which is being proposed to authorise the Directors to disapply the preemption rights of existing Shareholders in relation to issues of Ordinary shares under Resolution 12 being in respect of Ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 933,117, representing approximately 10 per cent.
of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the Notice.
No issuance of Ordinary shares without preemption rights will be made at a price less than the prevailing net asset value per Ordinary share at the time of issue.
Resolution 15 Purchase of own shares Resolution 15 is a special resolution that will grant the Company authority to make market purchases of up to 5,594,972 Ordinary shares, representing 14.99 per cent.
of the Ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the Notice.
The Ordinary shares bought back will either be cancelled or placed into treasury at the determination of the Directors.
The maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary share must not be more than the higher of i 105 per cent.
of the average of the midmarket values of the Ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made or ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for the Ordinary shares.
The minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary share is 0.25.
There are currently no shares held in treasury by the Company.
In addition, the Directors would not exercise the authority granted under this resolution unless they consider it to be in the best interests of Shareholders, which may include addressing any significant imbalance between the supply and demand for the Companys Ordinary shares and to manage a any discount to net asset value at which the Ordinary shares trade.
Purchases would be made in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Listing Rules.
This authority shall expire at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company when a resolution to renew the authority will be proposed.
The Company currently intends that any Ordinary shares repurchased would be held in treasury, subject to applicable law and regulation.
Action to be Taken If you would like to vote on the resolutions but will not be attending the AGM, you may appoint a proxy by completing and returning the enclosed Form of Proxy in accordance with the instructions printed on it.
Forms of Proxy should be returned so as to be received by the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services plc, at The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY as soon as possible and in any event no later than 11.00 a. m. on 17 April 2019.
Alternatively, you may appoint a proxy electronically via www.
co. uk eproxy by following the instructions on that website or, if you hold your shares in CREST, via the CREST system.
Please note that all proxy appointment forms should reach the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services plc, by no later than 11.00 a. m. on 17 April 2019.
If you hold your shares through a nominee service, please contact the nominee service provider regarding the process for giving voting instructions.
13 13 33 Recommendation Full details of the above resolutions are contained in the Notice.
The Directors consider that all the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its members as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that Shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
Roger Mountford Chairman, HgCapital Trust plc 8 March 2019 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Further information Further information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of HgCapital Trust plc will be held at 2 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AP on 23 April 2019 at 11.00 a. m. to transact the business set out in the resolutions below.
Resolutions 1 to 13 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: this means that for each of those ordinary resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour.
Resolutions 14 and 15 will be proposed as special resolutions: this means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least threequarters of the votes cast must be in favour.
To receive the Companys annual financial statements Ordinary shares of the Directors pursuant to Section for the year ended 31 December 2018 together with 551 of the Act, which are hereby revoked and ii to the Directors Report, the Strategic Report and the expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Auditors Report on those financial statements.
Meeting of the Company unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in a general 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report set out meeting, save that the Company may, before such on pages 119 to 120 of the Companys Annual Report expiry, make offers or agreements which would or and Accounts for the financial period ended might require Ordinary shares to be allotted after such 31 December 2018. expiry and the Directors may allot Ordinary shares in 3.
To declare a final dividend of 30 pence per share in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the respect of the year ended 31 December 2018. authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To reelect Richard Brooman as a Director.
THAT each of the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in 5.
To reelect Peter Dunscombe as a Director.
the capital of the Company be subdivided into 6.
To reelect Roger Mountford as a Director.
10 ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each the New Ordinary Shares, the New Ordinary Shares having the 7.
To reelect Jim Strang as a Director.
rights and being subject to the restrictions set out in 8.
To reelect Guy Wakeley as a Director.
the Articles of Association of the Company, provided 9.
To reelect Anne West as a Director.
that such subdivision is conditional on, and shall take 10.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the effect on, admission of the New Ordinary Shares to the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this Official List of the FCA and to trading on the London meeting until the conclusion of the next annual general Stock Exchanges market for listed securities by 8.00am meeting at which financial statements are laid before on 28 May 2019 or such other time and or date as the the Company.
Directors of the Company may in their absolute discretion determine.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditor.
THAT, in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies 14.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 12, and in Act 2006 the Act, the Directors be and are hereby accordance with Sections 570 and 573 of the Act, the generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all Directors be and are hereby generally empowered to the powers of the Company to allot Ordinary shares in allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred amount of 3,110,391, being approximately 33.33 per on the Directors by Resolution 12 and to sell Ordinary cent.
of the issued Ordinary share capital of the shares from treasury for cash, as if Section 561 of the Company at the date of this Notice, such authority Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, up to i to replace any existing authorities in respect of 13 13 44 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued an aggregate nominal amount of 933,117 being c the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, approximately 10 per cent.
of the issued Ordinary share which may be paid for each Ordinary share is an capital of the Company at the date of this Notice, such amount equal to the higher of: power to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual i 105 per cent.
of the average of the midmarket General Meeting of the Company unless previously values of the Ordinary shares for the five renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general business days before the purchase is made: and meeting save that the Company may, at any time prior ii the higher of the price of the last independent to the expiry of such power, make an offer or enter into trade of an Ordinary share and the highest an agreement which would or might require Ordinary current independent bid for an Ordinary share, shares to be allotted or sold from treasury after the provided that all Ordinary shares purchased expiry of such power and the Directors may allot or sell pursuant to the said authority shall: Ordinary shares from treasury in pursuance of such an i be cancelled immediately upon completion offer or agreement as if such power had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of Section ii be held, sold or otherwise dealt with as 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the treasury shares in accordance with the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary provisions of the Act.
shares in the capital of the Company, provided that: This authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next a the maximum number of Ordinary shares which Annual General Meeting of the Company unless previously may be purchased is 55,949,720 if Resolution 13 revoked, varied, renewed or extended by the Company in above is approved and becomes effective general meeting save that the Company may, before such representing approximately 14.99% of the issued expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares which will Ordinary share capital of the Company following or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of the share split, or otherwise 5,594,972 such authority.
representing approximately 14.99% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company as at 6 March 2019, being the nearest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice or, if less the By order of the Board number representing 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Link Company Matters Limited share capital of the Company as at the date of the Company Secretary passing of this resolution: 8 March 2019 b the minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, Registered Office: which may be paid for each Ordinary share is the 2 More London Riverside, nominal value of that Ordinary share: London SE1 2AP 13 13 55 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Further information Further information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Important notes The following notes explain your general rights as a shareholder and your right to attend and vote at this Annual General Meeting or to appoint someone else to vote on your behalf.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General 5.
A person authorised by a corporation is entitled to Meeting and for the purposes of the determination by exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers the Company of the votes they may cast, members as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual must be registered in the Register of Members of the member of the Company.
On a vote on a resolution on Company at 6.00pm on 17 April 2019 or, in the event a show of hands, each authorised person has the same of any adjournment, 48 hours before the time of the voting rights as the corporation would be entitled to.
adjourned meeting excluding nonworking days.
On a vote on a resolution on a poll, if more than one Changes to the Register of Members of the Company authorised person purports to exercise a power in after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in respect of the same share: determining the rights of any person to attend and vote a if they purport to exercise the power in the same at the Annual General Meeting.
way as each other, the power is treated as exercised in that way: or 2.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or b if they do not purport to exercise the power in the proxies to attend, speak and vote on his or her behalf.
same way as each other, the power is treated as not A proxy need not also be a member, but must attend exercised.
the Annual General Meeting to represent you.
Any person receiving a copy of this Notice as a person of how to appoint the Chairman of the Annual General nominated by a member to enjoy information rights Meeting or another person as your proxy using the under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
a Nominated Person should note that the provisions If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at the in Notes 2 and 3 above concerning the appointment of Annual General Meeting you will need to appoint your a proxy or proxies to attend the Annual General own choice of proxy not the Chairman and give your Meeting in place of a member, do not apply to a instructions directly to them.
Nominated Person as only Shareholders have the right 3.
To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy to appoint a proxy.
However, a Nominated Person may form s may be obtained by contacting the Companys have a right under an agreement between the registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she helpline on 0370 707 1037 or you may photocopy the was nominated to be appointed, or to have someone proxy form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy else appointed, as a proxy for the Annual General holders name, the number of shares in relation to Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
Please appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, also indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy he she may have a right under such an agreement to instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
give instructions to the member as to the exercise of All forms must be signed and should be returned voting rights at the Annual General Meeting.
together in the same envelope.
Nominated persons should also remember that their 4.
A personalised form of proxy is enclosed with main point of contact in terms of their investment in Shareholders copies of this document.
To be valid, the Company remains the member who nominated it should be lodged with the Companys registrars, the Nominated Person to enjoy information rights Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, or, perhaps the custodian or broker who administers Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY so as to be received the investment on their behalf.
Nominated Persons not later than 48 hours excluding nonworking days should continue to contact that member, custodian or before the time appointed for the Annual General broker and not the Company regarding any changes or Meeting or any adjourned meeting or, in the case of queries relating to the Nominated Persons personal 13 13 66 a poll taken subsequent to the date of the Annual details and interest in the Company including any General Meeting or adjourned meeting, so as to be administrative matter.
The only exception to this is received no later than 24 hours before the time where the Company expressly requests a response appointed for taking the poll.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 8.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member accounts including the auditors report and the from subsequently attending and voting at the Annual conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the General Meeting should the member subsequently Annual General Meeting: or b any circumstances decide to do so.
A member can only appoint a proxy connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to using the procedures set out in these notes and the hold office since the last Annual General Meeting, that notes to the proxy card.
The termination of the the members propose to raise at the Annual General authority of a person to act as a proxy must be notified Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members to the Company in writing.
Amended instructions must requesting the publication to pay its expenses, any be received by Computershare Investor Services PLC by statement required to be placed on the website must the deadline for receipt of proxies.
Should a member also be sent to the Companys auditors no later than the wish to appoint a proxy electronically, such proxy time it makes its statement available on the website.
appointment must be registered electronically at The business which may be dealt with at the Annual www.
com, so as to be received not General Meeting includes any statement that the later than 48 hours excluding nonworking days before Company has been required to publish on its website.
the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting or 13.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338 of the any adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken Companies Act 2006 may require the Company to give, subsequent to the date of the Annual General Meeting or to members of the Company entitled to receive notice adjourned meeting, so as to be received no later than 24 of the Annual General Meeting, notice of a resolution hours before the time appointed to take the poll.
To vote which those members intend to move and which may electronically, you will be asked to provide the Control properly be moved at the Annual General Meeting.
Number, Shareholder Reference Number SRN and PIN, A resolution may properly be moved at the Annual details of which are contained in the personalised proxy General Meeting unless i it would, if passed, be card enclosed.
This is the only acceptable means by ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency which proxy instructions may be submitted electronically.
with any enactment or the Companys constitution or 9.
As at 8 March 2019 the Companys issued share capital otherwise : ii it is defamatory of any person: or iii it is consists of 37,324,698 Ordinary shares with none held frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this in treasury.
The total number of voting rights in the right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must Company is 37,324,698. identify the resolution of which notice is to be given, must be authenticated by the person s making it and 10.
A copy of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and the must be received by the Company not later than six information required by Section 311A of the Companies weeks before the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Act 2006 is included on the Companys website, http: www.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338A of the Companies Act 2006 may request the Company to 11.
Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 requires the include in the business to be dealt with at the Annual Directors to answer any question raised at the Annual General Meeting any matter other than a proposed General Meeting which, relates to the business of the resolution which may properly be included in the Annual General Meeting, although no answer need be business at the Annual General Meeting.
A matter may given a if to do so would interfere unduly with the properly be included in the business at the Annual preparation of the Annual General Meeting or involve General Meeting unless i it is defamatory of any disclosure of confidential information: b if the answer person or ii it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made has already been given on the Companys website: or pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic c if it is undesirable in the best interests of the Company form, must identify the matter to be included in the or the good order of the Annual General Meeting.
13 13 77 business, must be accompanied by a statement setting 12.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to by the person s making it and must be received by the publish a statement on its website setting out any Company not later than six weeks before the date of matter relating to a the audit of the Companys the Annual General Meeting.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Further information Further information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Important notes 15.
By attending the Annual General Meeting, members 19.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy and their proxies and representatives are understood Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation by the Company to have agreed to receive any 35 5 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. communications relating to the Companys shares made 20.
The Annual Report incorporating this notice of Annual at the Annual General Meeting.
General Meeting, details of the number of shares in 16.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies respect of which members are entitled to exercise by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment voting rights at the Annual General Meeting as at service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and 8 March 2019 the business day prior to publication any adjournment s thereof by utilising the procedures of this notice and, if applicable, any members described in the CREST manual, which is available to statements, members resolutions or members matters download from the Euroclear website www.
of business received by the Company after the dates of com CREST.
CREST personal members or other CREST this notice will be available on the Companys website, sponsored members, and those CREST members who http: www.
have appointed a voting service provider s, should 21.
None of the Directors has a contract of service with the refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service Company.
A copy of the generic terms and conditions of provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate appointment that have been adopted by the Directors action on their behalf.
will be available for inspection at the registered office 17.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of of the Company during usual business hours on any CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a weekday except weekends and public holidays until CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & place of the Annual General Meeting for a period Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the of fifteen minutes prior to and during the Annual information required for such instructions, as described General Meeting.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the Issuers agent 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 4 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST 13 13 88 sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
