Further information Further information Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD Pursuant to Article 23 1 of the AIFMD, Hg Pooled Hg has sole responsibility for managing the Company, Management Limited, as manager of the Company, makes including investigating and negotiating any potential available the following information to the existing investments and making investment decisions for the shareholders of the Company in order to supplement and Company subject to the Investment Policy.
Hg has update where relevant the information provided to them delegated certain administration and investment before they invested.
support services to HgCapital LLP, its parent undertaking.
In addition, HgCapital LLP is appointed as an investment Please note that where Hg has determined that the adviser to Hg.
required information is already detailed elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts as defined below or other Hgs duties under the Management Agreement are owed available source documents, this supplemental disclosure to the Company as a whole and not directly to the contains a reference to such source documents.
Where Hg shareholders, whether individually or in groups.
has determined that the required information has not been Hg maintains appropriate additional own funds to meet provided to shareholders, this supplemental disclosure its regulatory capital requirements under the AIFMD, contains the relevant details.
including in relation to professional liability risks.
Status and legal form Depositary The Company is an EU Alternative Investment Fund AIF, The Company has appointed IPES Depositary UK being a public limited company incorporated in England Limited the Depositary, whose registered office is and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
1 Minster Court, Mincing Lane, London The Companys registered office is 2 More London EC3R 7AA, as the depositary in relation to the Company Riverside, London SE1 2AP.
under an agreement dated 22 July 2014 the Depository agreement.
Investment Policy and risk management The Depositary is authorised and regulated FRN 610203 The investment objective, policy and strategy of the by the FCA and is responsible for verifying ownership of Company and Hg are set out in the Companys Investment the Companys investments on the basis of evidence Objective and Investment Policy section page 14 and Hgs provided by Hg and maintaining a register of such as well Review section pages 19 to 72 of the 31 December 2018 as cash monitoring of the Companys bank accounts and Annual Report and Accounts.
oversight as required by Hg.
The Depositarys duties under The Company is subject to the UK Listing Authority listing the Depositary agreement are owed to the Company rules and as such, any material change to the Companys as a whole and not directly to the shareholders, whether investment policy can only be made with the approval of individually or in groups.
The principal risks associated with the Companys investment Auditor policy are set out in The Companys Rationale and Business The Company has appointed Grant Thornton UK LLP, Model section pages 16 to 18 and the Financial Risk section whose registered office is at 30 Finsbury Square, page 95: note 19 of the notes to the financial statements in London EC2P 2YU, as auditor.
the Annual Report and Accounts.
Hg is responsible for risk The auditors duties are to carry out the annual audit management functions and has procedures in place to of the Company.
The auditor is primarily responsible for evaluate, monitor and mitigate the risks faced by the Company.
evaluating the application of the Companys accounting Hgs risk management function is reviewed by the Board policies and the review of the financial statements.
and the Audit and Valuation Committee in order to ensure that the best processes are in place and properly followed.
The agreement between the Company and Grant Thornton for the provision of audit services to the Company does Manager not include any specific rights for shareholders.
Hg Pooled Management Limited Hg is the manager of Legal Adviser the Company, its registered office being 2 More London 12 12 22 Riverside, London SE1 2AP.
Hg is a limited company and is The Company has appointed Dickson Minto W. S. whose authorised and regulated FRN 122466 by the Financial registered office is at 16 Charlotte Square, Edinburgh Conduct Authority FCA.
EH2 4DF as the Companys legal adviser.
Hg was authorised to manage AIFs for the purpose of the The agreement between the Company and Dickson AIFMD with effect from 22 July 2014.
Minto W. S. does not include any specific rights for shareholders.
Hg has been appointed to manage the Company pursuant to an agreement dated 14 January 2009 as amended and Prime Broker restated on 22 July 2014 the Management Agreement to include appropriate provisions relating to AIFMD.
The Company does not retain a prime broker.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD continued Legal relationship with shareholders Liquidity management The rights of the shareholders are governed by the As the Company is closedended, and no redemptions are Companys Articles of Association.
possible, its liquidity management is limited to ensuring it has the ability to meet the commitments made to make As at 31 December 2018, the Company had 37,324,698 investments.
A number of levers are available in order to Ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue.
Each Ordinary manage the Companys liquidity profile.
A proportion of share has one voting right attached to it.
The total number the assets of the Company is normally maintained in liquid of voting rights in the Company at this date was 37,324,698. readily realisable form cash, money market instruments, Further information on the share capital of the Company gilts and a managed liquidity fund to meet drawdowns.
can be found in the Ordinary share capital page 95: note A borrowing facility has been arranged with Lloyds Bank 20 section of the notes to the financial statements in the Corporate Markets plc, pursuant to which additional Annual Report and Accounts.
Shares are not offered on an temporary facilities of up to 80 million are available as ongoing basis but may be bought or sold through a referred to in the Leverage section above, if required.
In stockbroker, financial intermediary, or one of the share addition, an optout provision has been negotiated in dealing services detailed in the Shareholder Information connection with the Companys commitment alongside section of the Annual Report and Accounts page 125.
Hg8, Hg Mercury 2 and Hg Saturn.
This permits the The Company is incorporated under the laws of England Company to opt out of its obligation to fund its and Wales.
As such, the courts of England and Wales will commitment for certain liquidity or regulatory reasons, have jurisdiction to hear and determine any proceeding, if to do so would result in the Company i not having the and to settle any dispute, in accordance with English law, cash resources to meet any of its liabilities, expenses or which may arise out of a shareholders shareholding in obligations to fund its commitments to other funds or the Company.
Consequently, for shareholders residing investment vehicles of Hg that are reasonably likely to outside that jurisdiction it may not be possible to effect become due within 12 months or ii not being able service of process in an alternative jurisdiction or enforce to undertake any share buyback, in each case subject any judgement obtained against the Company in an to certain conditions.
For further details, refer to the alternative jurisdiction.
Companys Rationale and Business Model pages 16 to 18 section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Leverage The aggregate amount of borrowing shall not exceed an Fees, charges and expenses amount equal to twice the aggregate of: For details of the fees payable by the Company to Hg in a the amount paid up, or credited as paid up, on the share relation to its investment activities within the underlying capital of the Company excluding any share capital fund partnerships, please refer to the priority profit presented as debt : and share and carried interest section page 81: note 4 b the total of any credit balance on the distributable and of the notes to the financial statements in the Annual undistributable reserves of the Companys group, but Report and Accounts.
excluding amounts attributable to outside shareholders In relation to the management of the Company, Hg is also in subsidiary undertakings of the Company and entitled to receive 5,000 per quarter for its activities as deducting any debit balance on any reserve.
the Manager of the Company and 0.025% of the NAV of The Company has in place an 80 million multicurrency the Company per quarter for its activities as administrator.
standby facility with Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc on The Company also incurs fees in the form of depositary an unsecured basis, expiring on 30 June 2022.
The facility fees, bank fees, marketing fees, legal fees, auditors fees was not utilised during the year and remained undrawn at and other fees.
It is not possible to provide a maximum 31 December 2018.
Please refer to the Companys fee payable due to the nature of these amounts.
Rationale and Business Model page 17 of the Annual Report and Accounts for further details.
Fair treatment of shareholders and Preferential Treatment Valuation policy and procedure 12 12 33 Hg and the Board are committed to treating shareholders Hgs valuation policy is to value investments in accordance fairly in accordance with UK company law.
No preferential with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital rights have been granted to any shareholder.
Hg and the IPEV guidelines.
The Company has an Audit and Board of the Company will not enter into any preferential Valuation Committee which reviews these valuations and arrangements which would lead to a material disadvantage provides oversight of the valuation process and to other shareholders.
Please see The Companys Rationale and Business Model section pages 15 to 18 of the Annual Report and Accounts for further details.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Further information Further information Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD continued Remuneration disclosure Remuneration policy The Company does not directly employ any staff and Hg has ensured that all remuneration is directly aligned instead HgCapital LLP, which also acts as investment adviser with the specific requirements of the AIFMD.
and provides administrative services to the Company, Hgs remuneration policy which also applies directly provides personnel to fulfil roles within its investment to HgCapital LLP seeks to avoid conflicts of interest committee, portfolio review committee and the control and by ensuring that: risk functions the Relevant Functions and perform other It comprises an appropriate mix of fixed and variable activities for the Company.
Personnel carrying out the remuneration that encourages staff to make a positive Relevant Functions or who are senior management of Hg contribution to the Company and other AIFs that are referred to below as Identified Staff.
it manages: The table below sets out the disclosures required under It is consistent with the objectives of Hg: AIFMD in relation to the proportion of remuneration The assessment of performance is set in a multiyear attributable to work done for the Company during the year framework appropriate to the lifecycle of the AIFs it ended 31 December 2018. manages in order to ensure that the assessment process 2018 2017 is based on longer term performance: It is under the oversight of a remuneration committee with one independent member: Fixed remuneration paid It contains measures to promote effective to Identified Staff 313,000 384,000 risk management: Variable remuneration paid It applies a carried interest model which a aligns the to Identified Staff 68,000 85,000 interests of staff involved in investment management Aggregate remuneration paid with the risks of the AIFs and investors in the AIFs: and to Identified Staff who are senior b does not incentivise inappropriate risk taking: and management of the Manager 83,000 42,000 It does not pay out remuneration for future potential revenues that are not certain.
Aggregate remuneration paid to Identified Staff who have a material Reporting and updates impact on the risk profile of the AIF by reason of performing Relevant Functions 298,000 427,000 The Companys historic performance has been disclosed to shareholders in its Annual Report and Accounts, the most Carried interest paid by the AIF recent one covering the year ended 31 December 2018 to Identified Staff 4,514,000 and being sent to all shareholders.
Any further information about the Companys risk profile The number of Identified Staff for the year was 21. and risk management, any material changes to the liquidity Please note that there was no carried interest paid arrangements, the proportion of assets subject to special in respect of the Company during the year.
arrangements arising from liquidity and the maximum permitted leverage will be provided via the Companys Annual Report and Accounts and on the Companys website at www.
12 12 44 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
