Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 18.
Bank facility On 24 August 2011, the Company entered into a 40,000,000 multicurrency revolving credit standby facility on an unsecured basis.
In December 2015, the facility was extended by a further three and a half years to 30 June 2019.
In addition, the facility was increased to 80,000,000.
Under the facility agreement, the Company is liable to pay interest on any drawn amount at LIBOR plus a margin of 2.25% to 2.50%, dependent on the loan to value ratio.
A commitment fee of 0.9% p. a. is liable on any undrawn commitment.
The facility was undrawn as at the end of the year.
In March 2019, the facility was extended until 30 June 2022 with the option of adding a further 80 million via an accordion facility, subject to the banks agreement at the time.
Financial risk The following disclosures relating to the risks faced by the Company are provided in accordance with sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102.
The reference to investments in this note is in relation to the Companys direct investments in Asper RPP I LP, Asper RPP II LP, Hg 6E LP and the underlying investments in HGT LP, HGT 6 LP, HGT 7 LP, HGT 8 LP, HgCapital Mercury D LP, HGT Mercury 2 LP, HGT Saturn LP and HGT Transition Capital LP as described in note 3 on page 78.
Financial instruments and risk profile The Companys investment objective is to achieve longterm capital appreciation by indirectly investing in unquoted companies.
It does this through its investments in fund partnerships, mostly in the UK and Europe.
Additionally, the Company holds UK Government securities, cash, liquidity funds and items such as debtors and creditors arising directly from its operations.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction of the Companys net assets or a reduction in the profits available for distribution by way of dividends.
Valuation risk, market risk comprising currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, and the Directors approach to the management of them, are described below.
The Board and Hg coordinate the Companys risk management.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing the risks, and the methods used to manage the risks, that are set out 90 90 below, have not changed from the previous accounting period.
Valuation risk The Companys exposure to valuation risk arises mainly from movements in the value of the underlying investments held through fund partnerships, the majority of which are unquoted.
A breakdown of the Companys portfolio is given on page 39 and a breakdown of the most significant underlying investments is given on page 48.
In accordance with the Companys accounting policies, the investments in fund limited partnerships are valued by reference to their underlying unquoted investments, which are valued by the Directors following the IPEV Valuation Guidelines.
The Company does not hedge against movements in the value of these investments, apart from foreign exchange movements as explained below, though the borrowing arranged to fund these investments is normally denominated in the currency in which the business is operating and valued see page 93.
The Company has exposure to interest rate movements, through bank deposits and liquidity funds.
In the opinion of the Directors, the diversified nature of the Companys investments significantly reduces the risks of investing in unquoted companies.
FRS 102 requires the Company to classify fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
The level in the fair value hierarchy, within which the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety, is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
For this purpose, the significance of an input is assessed against the fair value measurement in its entirety.
If a fair value measurement uses observable inputs that require significant adjustment based on unobservable inputs, that is a level 3 measurement.
Assessing the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgement, considering factors specific to the asset or liability.
The determination of what constitutes an observable input requires significant judgement by the Board.
The Board considers observable data relating to investments actively traded in organised financial markets, in which case fair value is generally determined by reference to stock exchange quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date, without adjustment for transaction costs necessary to realise the asset.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
