Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is investment.
The Company is an investment company as defined by Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and an investment trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA 2010, and is registered as a public company in England and Wales under number 01525583 with its registered office at 2 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AP.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of financial instruments at fair value as permitted by the Companies Act 2006, and in accordance with applicable UK law and UK Accounting Standards UK GAAP, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP, issued in November 2014 and updated in February 2018.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
The Company has considerable financial resources and, as a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next twelvemonth period from the date of this Report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The same accounting policies, presentation and methods of computation are followed in these financial statements as applied in the Companys previous annual audited report and accounts.
Organisational structure and accounting policies 78 78 Partnerships where the Company is the sole limited partner The Company entered into six separate partnership agreements with general and founder partners in May 2003 subsequently revised in January 2009, January 2009, July 2011, March 2013, December 2016, February 2017, January 2018 and February 2018: at each point an investment holding limited partnership was established to carry on the business of an investor, with the Company being the sole limited partner in these entities.
The purpose of these partnerships, HGT LP, HGT 6 LP, HGT 7 LP, HGT 8 LP, HgCapital Mercury D LP, HGT Mercury 2 LP, HGT Saturn LP and HGT Transition Capital LP, together the primary buyout funds is to hold all the Companys investments in primary buyouts.
Under the partnership agreements, the Company made capital commitments into the primary buyout funds, with the result that the Company now holds direct investments in the primary buyout funds and an indirect investment in the fixed asset investments that are held by these funds, as it is the sole limited partner.
These direct investments are included under fixed asset investments on the balance sheet and in the table of investments on page 39.
The underlying investments that are held indirectly are included in the overview of investments on page 48.
Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared because the Company does not have control over the operating and financial activities of the underlying investment holding limited partnerships, as the general partners are responsible for the management of their activities.
Partnerships where the Company is a minority limited partner In July 2011, the Company acquired a direct secondary investment in HgCapital 6 E LP Hg 6E LP, one of the partnerships that comprise the Hg 6 Fund, in which the Company is now a limited partner pari passu with other limited partners.
This is a direct investment in the Hg 6E LP Fund, as shown on the balance sheet and in the table of investments on page 39.
The Company also entered into partnership agreements with other limited partners with the purpose of investing in renewable energy projects by making capital commitments in Asper Renewable Power Partners LP Asper RPP I LP and Asper Renewable Power Partners 2 C LP Asper RPP II LP together the renewable funds.
These are direct investments in the renewable funds, as shown on the balance sheet and in the table of investments on page 39.
Priority profit share and other operating expenses, payable by partnerships in which the Company is a minority limited partner, are recognised as unrealised losses in the capital return section of the income statement and are not separately disclosed within other expenses.
Priority profit share and carried interest under the primary buyout limited partnership agreements Under the terms of the primary buyout fund limited partnership agreements LPAs, each general partner see note 23 is entitled to appropriate, as a first charge on the net income of the funds, an amount equivalent to its priority profit share PPS.
The Company is entitled to net income from the funds, after payment of the PPS.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
