Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Shareholder information Financial calendar Share price The announcement and publication of the Companys results The Companys midmarket Ordinary share price is may normally be expected in the months shown below: published daily in the Times and the Daily Telegraph under the section Investment Companies.
In the Financial Times, March Final results for year announced the Ordinary share price is listed in the subsection ConventionalPrivate Equity.
Annual Report and Accounts published April Annual General Meeting and payment ISIN SEDOL numbers of final dividend The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic code for the Companys Ordinary shares are: September Interim figures announced and interim report published ISIN GB0003921052 October Payment of interim dividend SEDOL 0392105 Dividend Reuters code HGT.
L The final dividend proposed in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 is 30 pence per share.
Share dealing Investors wishing to purchase or sell shares in the Company Exdividend date 21 March 2019 may do so through a stockbroker, financial advisor, bank date from which shares are or several sharedealing platforms.
transferred without dividend To purchase this investment, you must have read the Record date 22 March 2019 Key Information Document KID before the trade last date for registering transfers can be executed.
to receive the dividend If you are proposing to use Computershare Investor Services PLC to purchase shares please contact them Last date for registering DRIP instructions see below 5 April 2019 on 44 0 370 703 0084 and they can provide you with the KID either by email or by post.
Dividend payment date 30 April 2019 The following share dealing services are available through our Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC: The final dividend is subject to approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Internet share dealing Payment of dividends Please note that, at present, this service is only available to shareholders in certain jurisdictions, including the UK.
Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the firstnamed Please refer to the website for an up to date list of these shareholder at their registered address, together with a tax countries.
This service provides shareholders with an easy voucher, to arrive on the payment date.
Alternatively, way to buy or sell the Companys Ordinary shares on the dividends may be paid direct into a shareholders bank London Stock Exchange.
The commission is 1.0%, subject to account via Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACS.
In addition, stamp duty, currently This may be arranged by contacting the Companys 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
There is no need to open an registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC account in order to deal.
Realtime dealing is available Computershare, on 0370 707 1037. during market hours.
In addition, there is a convenient Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP facility to place your order outside of market hours.
Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
purchase further shares in the Company.
Before you can trade you will need to register for this service.
To access the service log on to Dividend reinvestment forms may be obtained from 12 12 55 www.
Computershare on 0370 707 1037 or may be downloaded from wwwuk.
Shareholders Shareholders should have their Shareholder Reference who have already opted for dividend reinvestment do not Number SRN available.
The SRN appears on share need to reapply.
The last date for registering for this certificates as it will be required as part of the registration service for the forthcoming dividend is 5 April 2019. process.
A bank debit card will be required for purchases.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Further information Further information Shareholder information Telephone share dealing dividends notionally designated as interest distributions by investment trust companies when they are made Please note this service is, at present, only available to on or after 6 April 2017. shareholders resident in certain jurisdictions.
The commission is 1% plus a charge of 35.
In addition, stamp duty, currently This brought this type of income into line with the 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
The service is available from treatment of interest paid on bank and building society 8.00 a. m. to 4.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank accounts following the introduction of the Personal Savings holidays, on telephone number 0370 703 0084.
The amount of your Personal Savings Allowance Before you trade you will need to register for this service.
This depends on your adjusted net income.
Where interest can be done by going online at www.
streaming is not possible there is an individual annual Shareholders should have their SRN ready when making the allowance of 2,000 across all dividend income, above call.
The SRN appears on share certificates.
A bank debit card which there is a tax liability.
will be required for purchases.
Detailed terms and conditions For further information, please visit the HMRC.
uk are available on request by telephoning 0370 703 0084. website.
For queries about your own tax position, Please note that due to the regulations in the UK, please speak to an independent tax advisor.
Computershare are required to check that you have read and accepted the Terms & Conditions before being able to Capital gains tax CGT for UK tax payers trade, which could delay your first telephone trade.
If you Qualifying investment trusts currently pay no corporation wish to trade quickly, we suggest visiting their website and tax on capital gains made within the portfolio.
investors sell all or part of their holdings, they may be liable These services are offered on an execution only basis and to CGT.
For the tax year 2018 2019, the first 11,700 per subject to the applicable terms and conditions.
This is not annum of such gains from all sources is exempt.
a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in HgCapital The following CGT rates currently apply: Trust plc.
Shareholders who are unsure of what action to 10% and 20% for individuals depending on total taxable take should obtain independent financial advice.
Share income and gains : values may go down as well as up which may result in a 20% for trustees or personal representatives: and shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
10% for gains qualifying for Entrepreneurs Relief.
To the extent that this statement is a financial promotion for the share dealing service provided by Computershare Investments held in ISAs continue to remain exempt Investor Services PLC, it has been approved by from CGT.
Computershare Investor Services PLC for the purpose of Please remember that we are unable to offer individual Section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets investment or taxation advice.
Investors who are in Act 2000 only.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is any doubt as to their liability for CGT should seek authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct professional advice.
Where this has been received in a country where the provision of such a service would be contrary Risk factors to local laws or regulations, this should be treated In vestments in predominantly unquoted companies, as for information only.
which form the majority of the Companys investments, may not be as readily realisable as investments in Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995 CREST quoted companies.
The Companys Ordinary shares have joined CREST, an A s Hg invests in Continental Europe and in companies electronic system for uncertificated securities trading.
that trade internationally, the value of the Companys Private investors can continue to retain their share shares may be affected by changes in rates of foreign certificates and remain outside the CREST system.
investors are able to buy and sell their holdings in the same H g invests in a portfolio of small to midcap companies, way as they did prior to the introduction of CREST, although with enterprise values of more than 30 million there may be differences in dealing charges.
12 12 66 at the time of acquisition, the performance of which Income tax can fluctuate.
Where possible, dividends can be designated as an T he price at which the Companys shares trade on the interest distribution interest streaming for tax purposes.
London Stock Exchange is not the same as their NAV The Finance Bill 2017 included provisions which removed although they are related and therefore you may realise the requirement to deduct income tax at source from returns that are lower or higher than NAV performance.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Shareholder information continued Pa st performance is not necessarily a guide to future Common Reporting Standard performance and an investor may not get back the With effect from 1 January 2016, new tax legislation under amount originally invested.
The OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and T he value of investments in the Company and the income Development The Common Reporting Standard for from them can fluctuate, as the value of the underlying Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information investments fluctuates.
The Common Reporting Standard was introduced.
T he Company invests in unquoted companies and The legislation requires investment trust companies to although great care is taken in their valuation, such provide personal information to HMRC on certain investors valuations cannot, by their nature, be exact and are who purchase shares in them.
As an affected company, the liable to change.
Company provides information annually to the local tax authority on the tax residencies of a number of nonUK Duration of the Company based certificated shareholders, and corporate entities.
An ordinary resolution was approved by shareholders at All shareholders, excluding those whose shares are held in the Annual General Meeting in May 2015 to continue the CREST, entered onto the share register from 1 January 2016 life of the Company for a further five years and a similar will be sent a certification form for the purposes of resolution will be put to the shareholders in 2020 and every collecting this information.
For further information, please see HMRCs Quick Guide: If the resolution to continue the life of the Company is not Automatic Exchange of Information, information for approved, a General Meeting will be convened within six account holders: https: www.
uk government months after the date of the AGM to put forward proposals publications  for the reorganisation or reconstruction of the Company.
ISA status Nominee holdings The Companys shares are eligible for stocks and shares ISAs.
Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the Company undertakes: Shareholder enquiries In the event of queries regarding your shares, please log in to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of shareholder communications, so long as an indication to the Computershare Investor Centre site, detailed below.
of quantities has been provided in advance: and Computershare now offers a free secure share management website that allows you to: to allow investors holding shares through a nominee v iew your share portfolio and see the latest market price company to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the nominee company is available.
of your shares: e lect to receive your shareholder communications online: Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the c alculate the total market price of each shareholding: necessary authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys general meetings.
v iew price histories and trading graphs: up date bank mandates and change of address details: and NonMainstream Pooled Investments us e online dealing services.
The Board notes the changes to the FCA rules relating to Log on to wwwuk.
com investor and enter the restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated your Shareholder Reference Number and Company Code collective investment schemes and close substitutes which this information can be found on the last dividend voucher came into effect on 1 January 2014. or your share certificate.
Legal advice obtained by the Company confirms that the Changes of name or address must be notified in writing to: Companys shares will qualify as an excluded security Computershare Investor Services PLC under these new rules and will therefore be excluded from The Pavilions the FCAs restrictions which apply to nonmainstream Bridgwater Road investment products because they are shares in an 12 12 77 Bristol BS99 6ZZ investment trust.
General enquiries about the Company should be directed to: The Company conducts its affairs so that the shares issued by the Company can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary Hg Pooled Management Ltd retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in 2 More London Riverside relation to nonmainstream investment products and London SE1 2AP intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
Telephone: 020 7089 7888 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Further information Further information Shareholder information continued Investing in private equity Private Equity Private equity is the term given to the provision of equity Advantages of the private equity model and equity type risk capital to unlisted companies.
Compared with investment in the public markets, a private It is normally used to finance beneficial change in equity investor has significant advantages: businesses.
The changes that require equity finance are B etter governance manifold and ever present.
They include a change in the Theory and experience tells us that businesses run by scale of a business through fast growth or acquisitions, their owners tend to perform better than those run a change in ownership, often in conjunction with by salaried agents.
In a private equity backed business management the management buyout, a change in the almost everybody around the board table and often a strategic direction of a company, a significant change in high percentage of the management and staff own shares the structure and operations of a business, or financing in the companies they run.
In addition, the private equity the commercialisation of new technologies.
managers also have an equity interest in the portfolio Healthy economies require constant change in their companies through their coinvestment obligations and via corporate sector, otherwise they stultify.
Private equity their carried interest.
Accordingly, the interests of all parties is a form of finance wellsuited to pay for this change as it is are closely aligned and focused on creating value and patient, welcomes considered risk taking, and participates realising a substantial capital gain.
This is achieved by directly in outcomes.
selecting ambitious medium to longterm goals and allowing managers to pursue them, free from shortterm distractions In return for their investment, private equity investors that often beset the managers of listed companies.
receive a share of the equity in the businesses they finance and do so with the objective of making a significant B etter control capital gain over holding periods, typically from three to The private equity manager has more control over the seven years.
method and timing of the sale of the business than a manager of listed equities.
This superior control also Private equity investors, like Hg, aim to deliver their clients extends to the appointment of management.
higher returns than may be obtained from a portfolio of public equity investments over any rolling period of five to A bility to attract the best management talent ten years.
Attractive returns can be garnered if the private Working in a private equity backed business is highly equity manager exploits the advantages private equity attractive to the best and most ambitious managers.
investors have over investors in public markets.
They will be incentivised by capital returns that the listed companies rarely, if ever, match and are given the challenge and satisfaction of running their own business.
Investment profile L arger universe of opportunities Private equity investments are less liquid than publicly The universe of privately owned businesses is much traded equities.
To compensate for this, they offer greater larger than the publicly traded one, so the investor has control and aim for more attractive returns.
The choice available to private equity also includes listed companies which can be delisted and Individual private equity investments have a risk profile refinanced with private equity capital.
dependent on the nature of the underlying business.
Investing in a diversified portfolio helps to mitigate some of B etter access presenting the possibility for these risks: the quality of company selections by the private better assessment equity manager and the managers ability to manage its Prior to investing, private equity managers often have portfolio further mitigates risk.
Manager selection is a key better access to information, including detailed market, determinant of returns.
financial, legal and management due diligence.
12 12 88 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Shareholder information continued Investing in private equity Listed Private Equity Listed Private Equity LPE refers to public companies retained for reinvestment, rather than being distributed to whose shares are listed and traded on a primary investors, which would trigger taxable gains.
with the longterm horizon of private equity, means that listed private equity is best suited to longterm holding, In Europe, primary exchanges include the London Stock rather than frequent trading.
Some private equity companies quoted on the London Stock Exchange are structured as In Europe, there are 53 listed private equity companies, investment trusts.
All listed private equity companies with aggregate market capitalisation of c. 69 billion, of provide the shareholder with an exposure to a which c. 24 billion are Londonlisted companies source: differentiated portfolio of private companies, either LPX February 2018.
These listed private equity companies directly or via funds.
should not be confused with Venture Capital Trusts VCTs, which offer targeted tax advantages to investors, but must By buying shares in LPE companies, the investor benefits follow stringent regulations as to the size and nature of the from liquidity while participating in the potentially superior companies in which they can invest.
Such companies are returns of a private equity portfolio.
In addition, LPE generally embryonic businesses.
companies allow investors access to private equity without having to commit to the ten year lockin and minimum investment required when investing in private equity via Advantages of listed private equity limited partnerships.
Compared with an investment in a limited partnership with For the most comprehensive single source of information a ten year life, the normal route to obtaining a diversified on listed private equity go to www.
exposure to private equity, listed private equity offers significant advantages: London Stock Exchangelisted private equity investment trusts are supervised by boards of directors, the majority of l isted private equity offers the opportunity for retail whom are independent, in order to reinforce the managers investors as well as institutions to participate in a accountability to shareholders.
diversified portfolio of mainly unlisted companies for the price of one share, rather than a typical minimum Provided they meet certain criteria, investment trusts pay commitment of over 5 million to a limited partnership: no corporation tax on capital gains but may not retain more than 15% of their income in each financial year.
by b uying shares in a listed private equity company, investors have liquidity in the shares and do not have to The objective of listed private equity is usually to provide make a ten year commitment to a fund.
Accordingly, they shareholders with longterm capital appreciation, rather can trade without requiring the managers consent and than income.
the need to run a private auction of their interest: Each listed company, like each private equity firm, has its l isted vehicles handle the cash management and own investment strategy relating to geography, size and administration, which are complex for a limited type of investment, etc.
Listed private equity companies partnership interest.
All listed private equity investors vary considerably in the number of their own holdings, need do is monitor the value of their shareholdings ranging from specialist direct investment trusts, with a in the quoted vehicle itself: and handful of portfolio companies in one country, to a fundoffunds manager with holdings in over 300 private c apital gains retained within Londonlisted trusts are equity funds worldwide.
Listed private equity companies continually invest and The listed sector is diverse, offering a wide range of private reinvest: most have no fixed life span like a limited equity investment vehicles adopting different investment partnership.
Proceeds from the sale of assets are generally strategies and criteria.
12 12 99 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Further information Further information Shareholder information continued Glossary CAGR Hedging Compound Annual Growth Rate.
Hedging is an investment technique designed to offset a potential loss on one investment by purchasing a Carried interest second investment that is expected to perform in the opposite way.
Equivalent to a performance fee, this represents a share of the capital profits that will accrue to the investment IPO initial public offering manager, after achievement of an agreed preferred return.
An offering by a company of its share capital to the public DACH with a view to seeking an admission of its shares to a recognised stock exchange.
An acronym for D Deutschland Germany, A sterreich Austria, CH Schweiz Switzerland.
IRR internal rate of return Discount The annualised rate of return received by an investor in a Investment trust shares frequently trade at a discount fund.
It is calculated from cash drawn from and returned to NAV.
This occurs when the share price is less than the to the investor together with the residual value of the NAV.
In this circumstance, the price that an investor investment.
pays or receives for a share would be less than the value attributable to it by reference to the underlying LBO leveraged buyout assets.
The discount is the difference between the The purchase of all or most of a companys share capital, share price and the NAV, expressed as a percentage of often involving its managers, funded mainly by borrowings the NAV.
For example, if the NAV was 2,150 pence and the often secured on the companys assets, resulting in share price was 1,935 pence, the discount would be 10%.
a postfinancing capital structure of the company that is geared.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and LP limited partnership Amortisation.
An English limited partnership includes one or more general partners, who have responsibility for managing the ESG business of the partnership and have unlimited liability, and Environmental, Social and Governance.
one or more limited partners, who do not participate in the operation of the partnership and whose liability is ESH ordinarily capped at their capital and loan contribution to the partnership.
In typical fund structures, the general Environmental, Social and Health.
partner receives a priority profit share ahead of distributions to limited partners.
In addition, a limited EV enterprise value partner, designated as the founder partner, will share in This is the aggregate value of a companys entire issued the profits of the partnership alongside the other limited share capital and net debt.
partners once limited partners have been returned all loan contributions plus a hurdle rate of return as agreed with Expansion capital the partnership.
The provision of capital to an existing, established business, to finance organic growth or acquisitions.
13 13 00 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Shareholder information continued LTM Quoted company Last Twelve Months.
Any company whose shares are listed or traded on a recognised stock exchange.
MBI management buyin Share split A change of ownership, where an incoming management team raises financial backing, normally a mix of equity and A share split or stock split is the process by which a debt, to acquire a business.
company divides its existing shares into multiple shares.
Although the number of shares outstanding increases, MBO management buyout the total net asset value of the shares remains the same as before.
A change of ownership, where the incumbent management team raises financial backing, normally a mix of equity and The Company is proposing a share split at the AGM on debt, to acquire a business it manages.
Please refer to the explanations in the Chairmans Statement on pages 10 and 11 and in the NAV net asset value per share Directors Report on page 109.
This is the value of the Companys assets attributable to one Total ongoing charges Ordinary share.
It is calculated by dividing shareholders funds by the total number of Ordinary shares in issue.
For example, as at 31 December 2018, shareholders funds were 804,987,000 and there were 37,324,698 Ordinary Total return shares in issue: the NAV was therefore 2,156.7 pence per The total return to shareholders comprises both changes share.
Shareholders funds are calculated by deducting in the Companys NAV or share price and dividends paid current and longterm liabilities, and any provision for to shareholders: it is calculated on the basis that all historic liabilities and charges, from the Companys total assets.
dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on the date the dividend is paid.
P2P public to private The purchase of all of a listed companys shares using Unquoted company a specialpurpose vehicle funded with a mixture of debt Any company whose shares are not listed or traded on and unquoted equity.
Preferred return Venture capital A preferential rate of return on an individual investment Investing in companies at a point in that companys life or a portfolio of investments.
cycle that is either at the concept, startup or early stage of development.
Premium A premium occurs when the share price is higher than the NAV and investors would therefore be paying more than the value attributable to the shares by reference to the underlying assets.
For example, if the share price were 2,255 pence and the NAV were 2,050 pence, the premium would be 10%.
13 13 11 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
