Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is investment.
The Company is an investment company as defined by Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and an investment trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA 2010, and is registered as a public company in England and Wales under number 01525583 with its registered office at 2 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AP.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of financial instruments at fair value as permitted by the Companies Act 2006, and in accordance with applicable UK law and UK Accounting Standards UK GAAP, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP, issued in November 2014 and updated in February 2018.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
The Company has considerable financial resources and, as a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next twelvemonth period from the date of this Report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The same accounting policies, presentation and methods of computation are followed in these financial statements as applied in the Companys previous annual audited report and accounts.
Organisational structure and accounting policies 78 78 Partnerships where the Company is the sole limited partner The Company entered into six separate partnership agreements with general and founder partners in May 2003 subsequently revised in January 2009, January 2009, July 2011, March 2013, December 2016, February 2017, January 2018 and February 2018: at each point an investment holding limited partnership was established to carry on the business of an investor, with the Company being the sole limited partner in these entities.
The purpose of these partnerships, HGT LP, HGT 6 LP, HGT 7 LP, HGT 8 LP, HgCapital Mercury D LP, HGT Mercury 2 LP, HGT Saturn LP and HGT Transition Capital LP, together the primary buyout funds is to hold all the Companys investments in primary buyouts.
Under the partnership agreements, the Company made capital commitments into the primary buyout funds, with the result that the Company now holds direct investments in the primary buyout funds and an indirect investment in the fixed asset investments that are held by these funds, as it is the sole limited partner.
These direct investments are included under fixed asset investments on the balance sheet and in the table of investments on page 39.
The underlying investments that are held indirectly are included in the overview of investments on page 48.
Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared because the Company does not have control over the operating and financial activities of the underlying investment holding limited partnerships, as the general partners are responsible for the management of their activities.
Partnerships where the Company is a minority limited partner In July 2011, the Company acquired a direct secondary investment in HgCapital 6 E LP Hg 6E LP, one of the partnerships that comprise the Hg 6 Fund, in which the Company is now a limited partner pari passu with other limited partners.
This is a direct investment in the Hg 6E LP Fund, as shown on the balance sheet and in the table of investments on page 39.
The Company also entered into partnership agreements with other limited partners with the purpose of investing in renewable energy projects by making capital commitments in Asper Renewable Power Partners LP Asper RPP I LP and Asper Renewable Power Partners 2 C LP Asper RPP II LP together the renewable funds.
These are direct investments in the renewable funds, as shown on the balance sheet and in the table of investments on page 39.
Priority profit share and other operating expenses, payable by partnerships in which the Company is a minority limited partner, are recognised as unrealised losses in the capital return section of the income statement and are not separately disclosed within other expenses.
Priority profit share and carried interest under the primary buyout limited partnership agreements Under the terms of the primary buyout fund limited partnership agreements LPAs, each general partner see note 23 is entitled to appropriate, as a first charge on the net income of the funds, an amount equivalent to its priority profit share PPS.
The Company is entitled to net income from the funds, after payment of the PPS.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Organisational structure and accounting policies continued In years in which these funds have not yet earned sufficient net income to satisfy the PPS, the entitlement is carried forward to the following years.
The PPS is payable quarterly in advance, even if insufficient net income has been earned.
Where the cash amount paid exceeds the net income, an interest free loan is advanced to the general partner by these primary buyout funds, which is funded via a loan from the Company.
Such loan is only recoverable from the general partner by an appropriation of net income: until net income is earned, no value is attributed to this loan see note 5 b.
Furthermore, under the primary buyout funds LPAs, each founder partner see note 23 is entitled to a carried interest distribution once certain preferred returns are met.
The LPAs stipulate that the primary buyout funds capital gains or net income, after payment of the carried interest, are allocated to the Company, when the right to these returns is established.
Accordingly, the Companys entitlement to net income and net capital gains is shown in the appropriate lines of the income statement.
Notes 4, 5 and 12 to the financial statements disclose the gross income and gross capital gains of the primary buyout funds and also reflect the proportion of net income and capital gains in the buyout funds that have been paid to the general partner as its PPS and to the founder partner as carried interest, where applicable.
The PPS paid from net income is charged to the revenue account in the income statement, whereas PPS paid as an interestfree loan, if any, is charged as an unrealised depreciation to the capital return on the income statement.
The carried interest payments made from net income and capital gains are charged to the revenue and capital account respectively on the income statement.
Investment income and interest receivable As stated on the previous page, all income that is recognised by the primary buyout funds, net of PPS, is allocated to the Company and recognised when the right to this income is established.
Income from Hg 6 E LP and the renewable energy funds would normally consist of income distributions and these distributions are recognised as income in the financial statements of the Company when the right to such distribution is established.
79 79 The accounting policies below apply to the recognition of income by the primary buyout funds, prior to allocation between the Partners: Interest income on nonequity shares and fixed income securities is recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield when it is probable that it will be realised.
Dividends receivable on unlisted equity shares where there is no exdividend date and on nonequity shares are brought into account when the right to receive payment is established.
Income from listed equity investments, including taxes deducted at source, is included in revenue by reference to the date on which the investment is quoted exdividend.
Where dividends are received in the form of additional shares rather than cash dividends, the equivalent of the cash dividend is recognised as the income in the revenue account and any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in the capital reserve realised.
Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
All administrative expenses are charged wholly to the revenue account.
Dividends Dividend distributions to shareholders are recognised as a liability in the year that they are approved unconditionally.
Current and other noncurrent assets Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Companys balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables are stated at nominal value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the revenue return on the income statement.
Cash comprises current accounts held with banks.
Foreign currency The functional and presentation currency is pounds sterling, reflecting the economic environment in which the Company predominantly operates.
All transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the dates of such transactions and the resulting exchange differences are taken to the capital reserve realised or revenue, as appropriate.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date and the resulting exchange differences are taken to the capital reserve unrealised or revenue as appropriate.
Taxation Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or credited in the income statement.
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences at the reporting date.
These timing differences arise from the inclusion of income and expenses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Organisational structure and accounting policies continued Investments The general principle applied is that investments should be reported at fair value, in accordance with Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEV Valuation Guidelines, December 2015 edition.
The December 2018 revision will be adopted in the 2019 Interim and Annual financial statements.
Where relevant, the Company applies the policies stated below to the investments held by the primary buyout funds, in order to determine the fair value of its investments in these limited partnerships.
Purchases of investments are recognised on a trade date basis.
Sales of investments held through the primary buyout funds are recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Sales from the investments in Hg 6 E LP and the renewable energy funds would normally consist of capital distributions and these distributions are recognised as a realisation when the right to such distribution is established.
Proceeds are measured at fair value, which is regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
Quoted: Quoted investments are held at fair value, which is deemed to be their bid price.
Unquoted: Unquoted investments are also held at fair value and are valued using the following guidelines: i initially, investments are valued at the price of recent investments less fees.
Subsequently, investments are valued based on ii to iv below: ii the level of maintainable earnings or revenue and an appropriate earnings or revenue multiple, unless iv is required: iii where more appropriate, investments can be valued based on other methodologies, including using their net assets or discounted cash flows, rather than on their earnings or revenue: and iv appropriate fair value movements are made against all individual valuations where necessary to reflect unsatisfactory financial performance or a fall in comparable ratings.
80 80 Limited partnership funds: these are investments that are set up by a manager in which the Company has a direct investment, but is not the sole limited partner and does not hold a majority share.
These investments are valued at fair value, based on the Managers valuation after any adjustment required by the Directors.
Liquidity funds: these are shortterm investments made in a combination of fixed and floating rate securities and are valued at the current fair value as determined by the manager of the fund.
They can be realised at short notice.
Derivative financial instruments: derivative financial instruments are held at fair value and are valued using quoted market prices for financial instruments traded in active markets, or dealer price quotations for financial instruments that are not actively traded.
Both realised and unrealised gains and losses arising on fixed asset investments, financial assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments, are taken to the capital reserves.
Capital reserves Capital reserve realised The following are accounted for in this reserve: i gains and losses on the realisation of investments: ii attribution of gains to the founder partners for carried interest: iii losses on investments where there is little prospect of realisation or recovering any value: iv realised exchange differences of a capital nature: and v expenses, together with the related taxation effect, charged to this reserve in accordance with the above policies.
Capital reserve unrealised The following are accounted for in this reserve: i increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the yearend: ii increases and decreases in the valuation of the loans to general partners: and iii unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
