Communication with shareholders and analysts Directors meet with major shareholders and potential investors Access trading graphs.
following interim and final results, and at other times if requested.
Add additional shareholdings to your portfolio.
Presentations for analysts are also held on the day of these announcements and we keep in regular contact with analysts Share dealing throughout the year.
Share dealing services are available through Computershare Investor Services PLC.
com Corporate information sharedealingcentre for internet share dealing and for telephone The Annual and Interim Reports are the main forms of dealing ring 0370 703 0084. communication with our shareholders.
We have updated our website to supplement these reports with additional information.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP The website address is www.
com and includes share price information, investor relations information and contact details.
Latest date for election is 10 June 2019 The Company offers shareholders the facility to reinvest their cash Annual General Meeting AGM dividends to buy more shares in the Company.
The AGM will be held on Thursday 16 May 2019 at 11.00 a. m. at The The service allows you to increase your shareholding in an easy Village Hotel, The Green Business Park, Shirley, Solihull, B90 4GW.
Full details are contained within the Notice of AGM.
A proxy card is also enclosed with this statement for voting.
Alternatively you can Online application process enables you to participate easily and vote electronically as explained below.
Electronic proxy voting Click on Register to sign up to the Investor Centre.
This To lodge your proxy vote via the internet, log on to www.
will allow you to carry out a number of share related investorcentre.
You will need the Control number, transactions online, including opting for the DRIP.
Shareholder Reference number SRN and PIN number printed on You will be required to fill in your SRN and your postcode, your Form of Proxy where you will find the full instructions.
together with your email address.
You will also be asked to select a user name ID and password of your choice.
Shareholding online Computershare Investor Centre gives access to view your holdings Once registered select Dividend Plans from the left hand online.
To register click on Investor Centre on the Computershare menu and amend your current cash dividend instruction, home page www.
com and follow the instructions.
confirming acceptance of the DRIP terms and conditions.
You will be able to: New shares will be purchased as soon as possible on or after View all your holding details for companies registered with the dividend pay date.
Shareholder helpline number View the market value of your portfolio.
There is a helpline for shareholders who have enquiries about their Update your contact address and personal details online.
The dedicated helpline number is 0370 707 1058. hsholdings.
