Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Equity instruments are normally measured at fair value through profit 1.
Adoption of new and revised standards or loss.
However, on initial recognition, the Group may make irrevocable election on  basis to present in other The following new and revised standards and interpretations have comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value of been adopted in the current year.
Several other amendments and equity instrument not held for trading.
interpretations apply for the first time in 2018, but do not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, but may impact The fair value movements on investments in unlisted equity instrument the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
i. e. the Groups venture capital investments are recorded in other comprehensive income.
This category only includes equity instruments, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which the Group intends to hold for the foreseeable future.
The Group has IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers irrevocably elected on  basis to classify these IFRS 15 Amendments Revenue from Contracts with Customers equity investments as measured at FVTOCI upon transition to IFRS 9.
The following standards and interpretations have not been applied in these Previously, the investments in unlisted shares that were not held for trading consolidated financial statements because while in issue, these are not were stated at cost, less a provision for any impairment loss under IAS 39 yet effective: cost exemption.
At transition date, the investments in unlisted shares $16 million see note 31 are re-classed as financial assets measured IFRS 16 Leases at FVTOCI.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments b Impairment The adoption of IFRS 9 has changed the Groups accounting for IFRS 15 impairment losses for financial assets by replacing IAS 39s incurred loss IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective for approach with a forward-looking expected credit loss ECL approach.
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and replaces IFRS 9 requires the Group to record an allowance for ECLs for all loans IAS 18 Revenue.
It provides enhanced detail on the principle of recognising and other debt financial assets not held at FVTPL.
revenue to reflect the transfer of goods and services to customers at a value which the Company expects to be entitled to receive.
The standard The Group has adopted IFRS 9 retrospectively, but with certain permitted also updates revenue disclosure requirements.
As a result, prior year results are also not restated, but a cumulative adjustment as a decrease in trade receivables and a The key revenue recognition policy impacted under IFRS 15 is the corresponding adjustment to decrease equity at 1 January 2018 by accounting of free goods.
Previously, free goods were recorded only at $3 million has been made note 44. cost, within cost of sales and no transaction price was allocated to the free goods revenue.
Under IFRS 15 an option to acquire additional goods The adoption of the ECL requirements of IFRS 9 resulted in an increase or services gives rise to a separate performance obligation, if the option in impairment allowance of the Groups debt financial assets.
provides a material right to the customer that the customer would not receive without entering into that contract.
The standard requires The other changes introduced in IFRS 9 have not had a significant impact management to estimate the transaction price to be allocated to the on the Group.
separate performance obligations, to defer revenue and to recognise a contract liability for the performance obligations that will be satisfied IFRS 16 in the future.
The Group recognises revenue for the option when those IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and it replaces IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 future goods or services are transferred to the customer.
Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating Leases-Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions The Group has adopted IFRS 15, applying modified retrospective approach Involving the Legal form of a Lease.
on 1 January 2018 with a cumulative adjustment as an increase to other current liabilities of $27 million contract liability, reflecting the free IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, goods obligations outstanding as at 1 January 2018, an increase of trade presentation and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to account for receivables by $1 million, decrease in the income tax provision by $1 million all leases under a single on-balance sheet model similar to the accounting and the corresponding net adjustment to decrease retained earnings by for finance leases under IAS 17.
The standard includes two recognition $25 million.
There is no restatement to prior periods as permitted in the exemptions for lessees leases of low-value assets e. g. personal transition rules for IFRS 15.
The impact of IFRS 15 on the consolidated computers and short-term leases i. e. leases with a lease term of financial statements for 31 December 2018 is disclosed in note 44.
At the commencement date of a lease, a lessee will recognise a liability to make lease payments i. e. the lease liability IFRS 9 and an asset representing the right to use the underlying asset during IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: the lease term i. e. the right-of-use asset.
Lessees will be required to Recognition and Measurement and is effective for annual periods separately recognise the interest expense on the lease liability and the beginning on or after 1 January 2018, bringing aspects of the accounting depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset.
for financial instruments: classification, measurement: and impairment.
Lessees will be also required to remeasure the lease liability upon the a Classification and measurement occurrence of certain events e. g. a change in the lease term, a change The principal impact is that the portfolio investments quoted securities in future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used portfolio previously designated as available-for-sale financial assets have to determine those payments.
been re-categorised on initial application as Investments FVTPL.
For further details, see note 24 of the consolidated financial statements and note 51 to the Company financial statements.
The Group recorded the fair value movements for such investments through the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018.
121 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the 1.
Adoption of new and revised standards historical cost convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of continued certain financial assets and liabilities.
The lessee will generally recognise the amount of the remeasurement The accounting policies included in this note have been applied of the lease liability as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset.
consistently other than where new policies have been adopted.
IFRS 16 also requires lessees and lessors to make more extensive The Groups previously published consolidated financial statements disclosures than under IAS 17. were also prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB and also in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union.
IFRS 16 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The presentation and functional currency of the Group is the US dollar Early application is permitted.
A lessee can choose to apply the standard as the majority of the Groups business is conducted in US dollars.
using either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach.
The standards transition provisions permit certain reliefs: it is currently Going concern anticipated that the standard will be adopted on a modified The Directors have, at the time of approving the consolidated financial retrospective approach.
statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence and In 2018, the Group has assessed the potential effect of IFRS 16 on its therefore considered the going concern basis as appropriate.
The Group expects to recognise lease they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing liabilities of approximately $49 million on 1 January 2019, right-of-use the consolidated financial statements see page 61. assets of $46 million after an adjustment for accrued rent of $3 million recognised as at 31 December 2018.
Basis of consolidation IFRIC 23 The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC the Company and entities controlled by the IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments was issued in June Company together the Group.
Control is achieved when the Group is 2017 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2019.
The exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the interpretation clarifies that if it is considered probable that a tax authority investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power will accept an uncertain tax treatment, the tax charge should be calculated over the investee.
If it is not considered probable, the effect of the uncertainty should be estimated and reflected in the tax charge.
In assessing the The consolidated financial statements include: uncertainty, it is assumed that the tax authority will have full knowledge of all information related to the matter.
the assets and liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries, entities that are controlled by the Group, through The Group has assessed the potential impact of the new interpretation the power of governing the financial and operating policies to obtain and believes the application of IFRIC 23 on 1 January 2019 will not result benefits from its activities in a material change to the provisions held for uncertain tax positions.
the Groups share of the results and net assets of associates and joint ventures 2.
Significant accounting policies The consolidated financial statements of entities are made up to General information 31 December each year.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is a public limited liability company Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the Group incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated from the date Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 176. control ceases.
The Groups principal activities are the development, manufacture, Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as and marketing of a broad range of branded and non-branded generic part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and associates.
pharmaceuticals products across the US, the Middle East and North Africa MENA and Europe.
Hikma is also a leading licensing partner in MENA.
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries until the products Basis of preparation are sold to customers outside the Group.
The Group consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with: Transactions with non-controlling interests are recorded directly in equity.
i EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for only to and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Standards the extent that it is considered recoverable.
Interpretations Committee and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies using IFRS.
ii International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
122 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 122 Financial statements The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures 2.
Significant accounting policies continued are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting, where the investments are carried in the Business combinations consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any method.
All identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate are measured at fair value on the acquisition date.
All acquisition related in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the The consideration is measured at the aggregate fair values of assets Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by on behalf of the associate.
the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, at the acquisition date.
Where applicable, this consideration may include the fair value of assets Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability is a financial goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the instrument and within the scope of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in Any impairment charges are recognised immediately in the consolidated consolidated income statement in line with IFRS 9, Other Contingent income statement.
Consideration that is not within the scope of IFRS 9 is measured at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value recognised in the Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, profits consolidated income statement.
and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
The aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of Subsequent changes to those fair values can only affect the measurement an associate and a joint venture is shown on the face of the consolidated of goodwill, where they occur during the measurement period and are income statement outside operating profit and represents profit after tax.
as a result of additional information becoming available about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
All other changes are Foreign currencies dealt with in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
This will usually mean that changes in the fair value of consideration are recognised in the Foreign currency transactions, being transactions denominated in a consolidated income statement.
currency other than an individual Group entitys functional currency, are translated into the relevant functional currencies of individual Group Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially entities at average rates for the relevant monthly accounting periods, which measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of consideration, approximate to actual rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities arising from non-controlling interest and fair value of previously held equity interest foreign currency transactions are retranslated at exchange rates prevailing over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired.
If, after at the reporting date.
Exchange gains and losses on loans and on shortreassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees term foreign currency borrowings and deposits are included within finance identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the income and expense.
Exchange differences on all other foreign currency cost of the consideration, the excess is recognised immediately in transactions are recognised in operating profit in the individual Group the consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items arising from foreign currency transactions are not retranslated in the individual Group entitys The non-controlling interest in the acquiree is initially measured at the accounting records.
In the consolidated financial statements, income and non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets, expense items for Group entities with a functional currency other than US liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
dollars are translated into US dollars at average exchange rates, which approximate to actual rates, for the relevant accounting periods.
Assets If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by and liabilities are translated at the US dollar exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising on consolidation are Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities Hyperinflationary economies are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and In hyperinflationary economies, when translating the results of operations circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, into US dollars, assets, liabilities, income statement and equity accounts would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
are translated at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Sudan was considered as a hyperinflationary economy in the year ended 31 December The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition 2018 in which the rate prevailing was 47.6 Sudanese pounds per US dollar to the date that the Group obtains complete information about facts as of 31 December 2018.
The effect of inflation accounting in Sudan for the and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject year ended 31 December 2018 was not material.
Revenue recognition Investment in associates and joint ventures Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognised in the consolidated income statement An associate is an entity which the Group has significant influence over, when control of the goods or services are transferred to the customer at an where the Group has the power to participate in the financial and amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be operating policy decisions of the investee revenue.
entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
Joint ventures are entities that the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over their economic activities and net assets.
123 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Returns 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The Group has a product return policy that allows customers to return the product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the The transition to IFRS 15 had no significant impact on the Groups revenue expiration date.
Provisions for returns are recognised as a reduction recognition policies as the majority of the Groups revenue is derived from of revenue in the period in which the underlying sales are recognised.
the supply of goods i. e. single performance obligation.
The only significant revenue recognition policy that is impacted by IFRS 15 transition is free The Group estimates its provision for returns based on historical goods.
Refer to free goods policy for more details.
experience, representing managements best estimate.
While such experience has enabled reasonable estimations in the past, history The Group has generally concluded that it acts as principal in its revenue may not always be an accurate indicator of future returns.
The arrangements because it typically controls the goods or services before Group continually monitors the provisions for returns and makes the transfer to customer.
adjustments when it believes that actual product returns may differ Revenue represents the amounts receivable after the deduction of from established reserves.
discounts, value added tax, other sales taxes, allowances given, penalties, provisions for chargebacks and accruals for estimated future rebates, Rebates returns and price adjustments.
The methodology and assumptions used In certain countries, rebates are granted to healthcare authorities and to estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly under contractual arrangements with certain customers.
Products sold in light of contractual and historical information.
in the US are covered by various programmes such as Medicaid under which products are sold at a discount.
Dynamic market changes can generate uncertainty as to the ultimate net selling price of a pharmaceutical product and therefore revenue cannot The Group estimates its provision for rebates based on current contractual always be measured reliably at the point when the product is supplied or terms and conditions as well as historical experience, changes to business made available to external customers.
While such experience has enabled reasonable estimations in the past, history may not always be an accurate indicator of If the ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably measured, revenue future rebate liabilities.
The Group continually monitors the provisions for recognition is deferred until a reliable measurement can be made.
Revenue rebates and makes adjustments when it believes that actual rebates may is only recognised when it is highly probable that a significant reversal will differ from established reserves.
All rebates are recognised in the period not occur.
in which the underlying sales are recognised as a reduction of revenue.
The Group does not expect to have any contract where the period Price adjustments between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer Price adjustments, also known as shelf stock adjustments, are credits and payment by the customer exceeds one year.
As a consequence, the issued to reflect decreases in the selling prices of the Groups products Group does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value that customers have remaining in their inventories at the time of the price of money.
Decreases in selling prices are discretionary decisions made by Group management to reflect competitive market conditions.
Amounts Variable consideration recorded for estimated shelf stock adjustments are based upon specified Chargebacks terms with direct customers, estimated declines in market prices and The provision for chargebacks is the most significant and complex estimates of inventory held by customers.
The Group regularly monitors estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
In the US, the Group these and other factors and re-evaluates the reserve as additional sells its products directly to wholesale distributors, generic distributors, information becomes available.
retail pharmacy chains and mail-order pharmacies.
The Group also sells its products indirectly to independent pharmacies, managed care Customer option that provides a material right organisations, hospitals, and group purchasing organisations, collectively Free goods referred to as indirect customers.
The Group enters into agreements with Free goods are issued to customers as sale incentives.
Under IFRS 15 its indirect customers to establish pricing for certain products.
The indirect an option to acquire additional goods or services gives rise to a separate customers then independently select a wholesaler from which they performance obligation, if the option provides a material right that the purchase the products at agreed-upon prices.
The Group will provide customer would not receive without entering into that contract.
IFRS 15 credit to the wholesaler for the difference between the agreed-upon price requires management to estimate the transaction price to be allocated to with the indirect customer and the wholesalers invoice price.
This credit is the separate performance obligations and to recognise a contract liability called a chargeback.
The provision for chargebacks is based on historical for the performance obligations that will be satisfied in the future.
The sell-through levels by the Groups wholesale customers to the indirect Group recognises revenue for the option when those future goods or customers, and estimated wholesaler inventory levels.
As sales are made services are transferred to the customer.
to large wholesale customers, the Group continually monitors the reserve for chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes that actual Previously, free goods were recorded only at cost, within cost of sales chargebacks may differ from estimated reserves.
and no transaction price was allocated to the free goods revenue.
124 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 124 Financial statements Retirement benefit costs 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed Contract manufacturing retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined The Group manufactures certain medicines on behalf of customers.
The contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes revenue from providing contract manufacturing services is recognised are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement when these medicines are approved by the quality control department.
There is no alternative use of these medicines and the Group also has the enforceable right to payments once these medicines are quality approved.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction Share-based payments or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take At the Companys discretion and subject to the achievement of Group and a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, personal performance criteria, employees including Executive Directors are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are of the Group receive performance remuneration in the form of sharesubstantially ready for their intended use or sale.
based payments, whereby employees render their services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions under either Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific the 2014 Executive Incentive Plan EIP or the 2009 Management Incentive borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted Plan MIP and the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP noting that the from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
last grant under the LTIP was made in 2014.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments requires an expense to be recognised statement in the period in which they are incurred.
when the Group buys goods or services in exchange for shares or rights over shares share-based payments or in exchange for other Dividend income equivalent assets.
Income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
The cost of share-based payments transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which the Leasing share-based payments are granted.
The fair value of the EIP and MIP are determined based on the share price as at the date of grant Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease discounted by the dividend yield.
substantially transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable The expected life used in the models applied to fair value the EIPs and under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis MIPs have been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for over the term of the operating lease.
Benefits received and receivable as the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a  further details are given in note 38.
In valuing share-based line basis over the lease term.
payments, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the market price of the shares of Hikma Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Pharmaceuticals PLC.
Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The The cost of share-based payments is recognised, together with a corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated balance corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting sheet as a capital lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned period based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to eventually vest.
The Group revises its estimate of the number of equity achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
instruments expected to vest and the impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated income statement, A new standard for leasing, IFRS 16 Leases will come into effect on such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with 1 January 2019, the potential effect on the consolidated financial statement a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Where the terms of is disclosed in note 1. share-based payments award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense Government grants is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated of the modification, as measured at the modification date.
Where a shareas deferred income and released to the consolidated income statement based payment award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for a Tax cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date The Group provides for income tax according to the laws and regulations that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they prevailing in the countries where the Group operates.
Furthermore, the were a modification of the original award, as described above.
Group computes and records deferred tax assets and liabilities according to IAS 12 Income Taxes.
The dilutive effect of outstanding share-based payments is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax in the current period and deferred tax.
125 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Core numbers are not substitutable for IFRS numbers and should not 2.
Significant accounting policies continued be considered superior to results presented in accordance with IFRS.
The current tax incurred in the period is based on taxable profit for Our core results exclude the exceptional items and other adjustments the year and prior year movement accounted for in the current year.
set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable Exceptional items or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never Exceptional items represent adjustments for costs and profits which taxable or deductible.
The Groups tax incurred is calculated using tax management believes to be exceptional in nature by virtue of their size or rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the consolidated incidence, or have a distortive effect on current year earnings.
Such items balance sheet date.
include costs associated with business combinations, one-off gains and losses on disposal of businesses assets, reorganisation costs, write-down Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on and impairment charges on assets and impairment of goodwill, net of any differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in tax impact.
the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the Other adjustments consolidated balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are These include amortisation of intangibles excluding software and finance generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred cost resulted from remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable liability and asset, net of any tax impact.
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can reverse.
To the extent the temporary difference arises from goodwill or Both exceptional items and other adjustments are excluded from core from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other results to improve comparability and consistency of our consolidated assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit financial statements, which is consistent with our fellow companies.
We nor the accounting profit, no deferred tax is provided.
represent and discuss our Group and segmental financials reconciled between reported and core results.
This presentation allows for full Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences visibility and transparency of our financials so that shareholders are arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in able to clearly assess the performance factors of the Group.
joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference The basis of determining exceptional items did not change from prior year.
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Intangible assets Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in An intangible asset is recognised if: the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax it is identifiable is charged or credited in the consolidated income statement, except when it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the attributable to the asset will flow to the Group deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
the cost of the asset can be measured reliably Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally The probability of expected future economic benefits is assessed using enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent managements and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority best estimate of the set of economic conditions that will exist over the and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a useful life of the asset and are amortised on a straight-line basis on the net basis.
following amortisation rates: The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Customer relationships 7% consolidated balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all Product related intangibles 7% to 14% or part of the asset to be recovered.
Trade names 10% Marketing rights 10% to 50% Deferred tax is booked on unrealised inter-company profits on inventory Software 10% to 30% sales, to the extent they are expected to unwind, at the rate applicable to the distribution company.
Where there is a significant difference between Judgement is used to assess the degree of certainty attached to the flow the tax rates of the relevant companies, this creates deferred tax that can of future economic benefits that are attributable to the use of the asset on materially impact the Groups effective tax rate.
In 2018, this had a 1.3% the basis of the evidence available at the time of initial recognition, giving favourable impact on the effective tax rate 2017: 0.9% unfavourable.
greater weight to external evidence.
Core results Expenditures on research and development activities are charged to Reported results represent the Groups overall performance.
However, the consolidated income statement, except only when the criteria for these results can include one-off or non-cash items that mask the recognising an internally generated intangible asset is met, which is underlying performance of the Group.
usually when approval from the relevant regulatory authority is considered probable.
Non-IFRS measures are used to report and monitor the underlying performance of our business.
Management uses these numbers internally to measure our progress and for setting performance targets.
To provide a more complete picture of the Groups performance we present core results, alongside our reported results, to external audiences to help them understand the underlying performance of our business.
Our core results may be calculated differently to other companies.
126 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 126 Financial statements Property, plant and equipment 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment have been stated at cost on acquisition and are depreciated on a straight-line basis except for land at the Also, the Group engages with third party research and development following depreciation rates: companies to develop products on its behalf.
Substantial payments made to such third parties to fund research and development efforts Buildings 2% to 4% are recognised as intangible assets if the capitalisation criteria for recognising an intangible asset is met, which typically is when licence Machinery and equipment 5% to 33% fees and milestone payments are made, all other payments are Vehicles, fixtures and equipment 6% to 33% charged to the consolidated income statement.
A units of production method of depreciation is applied to operations in Principal intangible assets are: their start-up phase, as this reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the assets.
When these a Goodwill: arising in a business combination and is recognised as assets are fully utilised, a straight-line method of depreciation is applied.
an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration Projects under construction are not depreciated until construction has transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree been completed and assets are considered ready for use.
and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date fair value Any additional costs that extend the useful life of property, plant and of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the Property, plant and equipment which are financed by leases giving Hikma acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration Pharmaceuticals PLC substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, and in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in the depreciated in the same manner as other property, plant and equipment consolidated income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
over the shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill Whenever the recoverable amount of an asset is impaired, the carrying is included in the determination of the consolidated income statement value is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is on disposal.
taken to the consolidated income statement.
Projects under construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of b Customer relationships: represent the value attributed to the these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences long-term relationships held with existing customers at the date when the assets are ready for their intended use.
of acquisition and are amortised over their useful economic life.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is c Product related intangibles: determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the i Product files and under-licensed products recognised through carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the consolidated acquisitions, and from development activities are amortised over income statement.
their useful economic lives once the asset is ready for use.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and ii In process product files recognised on acquisition are amortised intangible assets over the useful economic life once the asset is ready for use.
Each year, the Group carries out an impairment review for goodwill and d Trade names: are amortised over their useful lives from the date intangible assets that are not yet ready for use.
At the year end, the Group of acquisition.
reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets that are subject to depreciation and amortisation to e Marketing rights: are amortised over their useful lives commencing determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered in the year in which the rights first generate sales.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss f Purchased software: is amortised over the useful economic life if any.
In consideration of the impairment review, the Group compares when the asset is ready for use.
the carrying value of the asset to its recoverable amount.
127 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary 2.
Significant accounting policies continued course of business, less all estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Inventory related provisions are made for net realisable value lower than The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and cost, slow moving and short-dated inventory.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects Cash and cash equivalents current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with original specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not maturities of three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the Financial instruments asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
consolidated balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Groups goodwill and intangible assets are tested as follows: Financial assets a Goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups CGUs.
These CGUs are From 1 January 2018, the Group classifies its financial assets in the following tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an measurements categories: indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment i Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss P&L loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill Listed shares and investment portfolios held by the Group that are traded allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata in an active market are classified as being financial assets at FVTPL and are on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are assumptions used in the impairment tests are set out in note 16. recognised in the consolidated income statement, see note 24. b Intangible assets that are not yet ready for use are not subject to ii Financial assets designated at fair value through other comprehensive amortisation, and are tested annually for impairment or more frequently income OCI if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might be The Groups investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active impaired.
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever market and the fair value of which cannot be reliably measured are stated events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount at cost, less a provision for any impairment loss, see note 19. may not be recoverable.
iii Financial assets at amortised cost For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or date to determine whether there is an indication that previously recognised determinable payments of principle and interest amounts and are not impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased.
If such indication quoted in an active market are classified as Financial assets at amortised exists, the Group estimates the assets or CGUs recoverable amount.
These receivables include the reimbursements of certain contingent previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been payments in respect to milestone, loan, and receivables are measured at a sustained change in the assumptions used to determine the assets amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have be immaterial.
been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised consolidated income statement.
In line with IAS 36, previously recognised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees and points paid or Inventories received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the Purchased products are stated at acquisition cost including all additional debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location amount on initial recognition.
The costs of own-manufactured products comprise of direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and any Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their other than those financial assets classified as being at FVTPL.
In the consolidated balance sheet, inventory is primarily valued at standard cost, which approximates to For trade receivables and contract assets, the Group applies a simplified historical cost determined on a moving average basis, and this value is approach in calculating expected credit loss.
Therefore, the Group does used to determine the cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date.
The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment.
128 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 128 Financial statements Restructuring provisions 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Restructuring provisions are recognised only when the Group has a constructive obligation, which is when: Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified in two categories: financial liabilities i There is a detailed formal plan that identifies the business or part of the at FVTPL or Loans and Borrowings.
The classification depends on business concerned, the location and number of employees affected, the nature and purpose of the financial liabilities and is determined the detailed estimate of the associated costs, and the timeline: and at the time of initial recognition.
ii The employees affected have been notified of the plans main features.
i Financial liabilities at FVTPL The Group currently has two financial liabilities at FVTPL as below: Decommissioning provisions The Group records a provision for decommissioning costs of a co-development and earn out payment agreements with third parties manufacturing facility.
Decommissioning costs are provided for at the where the Group earns milestone payments reflecting the achievement present value of expected costs to settle the obligation using estimated of research and development: and commercialisation milestones.
cash flows and are recognised as part of the cost of the relevant asset.
Those payments are recognised as financial liabilities once received The cash flows are discounted at a current pre-tax rate that reflects contingent consideration arising from the Columbus business the risks specific to the decommissioning liability.
The unwinding of the acquisition represent contractual liabilities to make payments to discount is expensed as incurred and recognised in the consolidated third parties in the form of milestone payments that are dependent income statement as a finance expense.
The estimated future costs of on the achievement of certain US FDA approval milestones: and royalty decommissioning are reviewed annually and adjusted as appropriate.
payments based on future sales of certain products that are currently Changes in the estimated future costs, or in the discount rate applied, under development are added to or deducted from the cost of the asset.
Financial liabilities are revalued at the end of each reporting period to represent the value of expected future cash outflows and the difference is Onerous contracts presented as finance cost income.
These financial liabilities are currently The present obligation under the onerous contract is recognised and booked under other non-current liabilities and other current liabilities in measured as a provision.
However, before a separate provision for an the consolidated balance sheet.
onerous contract is established, the Group recognises any impairment loss that has occurred on assets dedicated to that contract.
An onerous ii Loans and borrowings contract is a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected value, net of transaction costs.
The unavoidable costs under a contract reflect the least net cost of exiting from the contract, which is the lower of the cost of Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it.
using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective interest method.
Own shares The Group provide finance to the trustee of the Employee Benefit The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised Trust EBT which is Link Trustees Jersey Limited.
Own shares are cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the deducted from equity.
These shares are held to be used to satisfy relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts long-term commitments arising from the employee share plan estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial operated by the Company.
liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Cash dividend A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability The Company recognises a liability to pay a dividend when the distribution is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion of is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different the Company.
In accordance with the laws of the United Kingdom, terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, a final dividend is binding on the Company when it is approved by the such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of shareholders and an interim dividend obtains this status when it is the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference approved by the Board of Directors.
in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds Provisions received, net of direct issue costs.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
129 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Acquired intangible assets note 16 3.
Critical accounting judgements and When testing for impairment, the following judgements and estimates key sources of estimation uncertainty are made: In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described judgement around determining whether a triggering event has occurred in note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements and estimates for intangible assets.
In such cases we first assess the qualitative factors about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the apparent from other sources.
The estimates are based on historical intangible asset is less than its carrying amount as a basis for experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual determining whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative results may differ from these estimates.
impairment test for pipeline products, establishing the launch date and probability The estimates are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting of a successful product approval are critical judgements estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised estimating revenue forecasts including market size, estimated if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and expected market share, number of competitors and net selling prices future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
estimating the future product profitability estimating a discount rate and specific risk premiums The Groups Directors believe that the following accounting policies estimating appropriate terminal growth rate beyond the forecast period that involve Directors judgements and estimates are the most critical to understanding and evaluating the Groups financial results.
For previously impaired assets, an assessment is made at each reporting date to determine whether there is an indication that previously recognised Revenue recognition notes 4 and 5 impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased, see note 2.
The Groups revenue recognition policies require Directors to make estimates of the net selling price, which is made complicated due to Taxation notes 12 and 13 chargebacks, product returns, rebates and price adjustments.
These Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies significant estimates vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
The following are the critical tax related judgements, apart from those We have not included sensitivity disclosures with respect to these given involving estimations which are dealt with separately below, that the commercially sensitive nature of this information.
Refer to note 2 management have made in the process of applying the Groups for more detail on each of the underlying estimates.
accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: Goodwill note 16 The critical areas of estimates in relation to the valuation of goodwill involve: Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based on the current forecast Testing for impairment of goodwill and other assets included within a CGU of taxable profits arising in the jurisdiction in which the deferred tax asset to establish the appropriate valuation of the CGU.
The valuation is used for arises.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that there are comparison to the carrying value of the net assets of the CGU and requires forecast taxable profits within a reasonable period.
The Group has a the following key judgements and estimates: potential deferred tax asset of $219 million 2017: $278 million, of which evaluation of current and future market conditions, market size, market $125 million 2017: $135 million has been recognised.
This exercise is share, and competition reviewed each year and, to the extent forecasts change, an adjustment estimating a five-year business plan for purposes of forecasting free to the recognised deferred tax asset may be made.
cash flows which involves forecasting appropriate sales and operating Recognition of deferred tax assets is driven by the Groups ability to utilise expenses taking into considerations both internal and external information the deferred tax asset which is reliant on forecast taxable profits arising in estimating a discount rate that appropriately reflects the Groups the jurisdiction in which losses are incurred.
weighted average cost of capital as adjusted for specific risk premiums reflecting risks inherent in achieving the projected future cash flows estimating appropriate terminal growth rate beyond the forecast period 130 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 130 Financial statements Transfer pricing risk 3.
Critical accounting judgements and The transfer pricing risk can arise from a difference in view over the pricing key sources of estimation uncertainty continued of cross-border, inter-company product sales and services and of sales of assets.
The standard by which most authorities, and the Group, assess the Legislative change risks transfer price is whether it is set at arms length.
An upward adjustment by The Group makes substantial sales in the US market of products owned the tax authority of one territory will not necessarily result in the downward by a UK Group company which also arranges for the product development adjustment by the other territory, potentially leading to an increased and manufacture, both in the US and in other territories in which the Group estimated tax cost through a mismatch of tax deductions and taxable operates.
Whilst a reduction in the US federal tax rate has beneficially income, as well as a potential increase arising out of a rate arbitrage.
The impacted the Groups effective tax rate, other aspects of the recently Group has considered the risk in detail and has provided for potential tax enacted US tax reforms, such as base erosion and anti-avoidance tax and adjustments so does not believe that any adjustment will materially impact a restriction on interest deductions, could have a negative impact on the the rate going forward.
This risk is reviewed periodically through the year.
Continuing with the impact of changes in tax rules in the territories in Valuation risk which we operate, we are experiencing an upward pressure on the Groups As part of a reorganisation following the Columbus business acquisition effective tax rate as a result of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS in 2016, certain assets and liabilities were transferred intra-Group initiative of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development with external valuations obtained.
If these valuations are successfully OECD.
The Group continues to monitor the impact of such changes as challenged by relevant tax authorities, it could adversely impact the they become clear and is taking any action necessary to help mitigate any tax recorded on the reorganisation.
adverse consequences to the extent reasonably possible.
Sensitivity Key sources of estimation uncertainty As at the consolidated balance sheet date, the Group held an aggregate The Group has the following key assumptions concerning the future, or provision in the sum of $57 million in respect of liabilities likely to arise other key sources of estimation uncertainty in the reporting period that from the above estimation uncertainties.
Hikma released $20 million in may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 2018 mainly due to the statute of limitations but this was offset by new amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
provisions of $13 million booked in 2018.
In 2019, up to $9 million could be released on the same grounds.
If all areas of uncertainty were audited and Tax audit risk all areas resulted with an adverse outcome, management does not believe In common with most international organisations, the Group is subject any material additional tax would be payable beyond what is provided.
to audit from revenue authorities from time to time.
Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable estimate of the outcome Contingent liabilities of the dispute can be made, management provides for its best estimate of The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and the liability.
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances medical devices is highly regulated and the operations of market of each dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgemental participants, such as Hikma, are closely supervised by regulatory and could change substantially over time as new facts emerge and each authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the US FDA and dispute progresses.
Hikma continues to invest in its financial systems to the US Department of Justice.
As a result, the Group is subject to certain ensure the quality of the Groups financial data which reduces the risk of investigations by governmental agencies, as well as other various legal an adverse revenue authority audit.
Furthermore, Hikma continues to proceedings considered typical to its business relating to employment, believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise product liability and commercial disputes, see note 37. from open assessments and audits.
Where open issues exist, the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
Other risks In addition to tax audits, the Group faces other potential tax risks that could affect the sustainability of the Groups effective tax rate.
The main risks are noted below.
Hikma regularly takes professional advice to ensure the risks mentioned below are appropriately analysed and managed with any ultimate potential liability being adequately provided.
131 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Revenue from contracts with customers Business and geographical markets: The following table provides an analysis of the Groups sales by segment and geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods services: Branded Injectables Generics Others Total Year ended 31 December 2018 $m $m $m $m $m United States 601 692 1,293 Middle East and North Africa 531 120 5 656 Europe and rest of the world 11 100 5 116 United Kingdom 5 5 542 826 692 10 2,070 Branded Injectables Generics Others Total Year ended 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m United States 586 615 1,201 Middle East and North Africa 523 102 5 630 Europe and rest of the world 13 86 4 103 United Kingdom 2 2 536 776 615 9 1,936 The top selling markets in 2018 are as below: 2018 2017 $m $m United States 1,293 1,201 Saudi Arabia 170 157 Egypt 97 75 1,560 1,433 Included in revenue arising in the Generics and Injectables segments is revenue of approximately $309 million 2017: $301 million which arose from the Groups largest customer which is located in the US.
Contract balances: 2018 2017 $m $m Trade receivables note 21 654 650 Contract liabilities note 28 151 127 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing.
Typical credit terms in the US range from 30 to 90 days, in Europe from 30 to 120 days, and in MENA from 180 to 360 days.
Contract liabilities mainly relate to returns provisions and free goods balances.
The movement in the year is mainly due to the increase in contract liability offset by the settlement of free goods liability of $28 million against a customer account receivable balance.
There was nominal amount of revenue recognised in the year in relation to the contract liability balance recognised at the beginning of the year.
132 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 132 Financial statements 5. Business segments For management reporting purposes, the Group is organised into three principal operating divisions Injectables, Generics and Branded.
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its segmental information.
Core operating profit, defined as segment result, is the principal measure used in the decision-making and resource allocation process of the chief operating decision maker, who is the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
Information regarding the Groups operating segments is reported below: 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional 2018 items and other 2018 2017 items and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results Injectables $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 832 6 826 776 776 Cost of sales 329 329 296 296 Gross profit 503 6 497 480 480 Total operating expenses 168 24 192 165 22 187 Segment result 335 30 305 315 22 293 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional 2018 items and other 2018 2017 items and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results Generics $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 692 692 615 615 Cost of sales 397 16 413 390 6 396 Gross profit 295 16 279 225 6 219 Total operating expenses 202 37 239 203 1,098 1,301 Segment result 93 53 40 22 1,104 1,082 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional 2018 items and other 2018 2017 items and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results Branded $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 542 542 536 536 Cost of sales 271 271 271 271 Gross profit 271 271 265 265 Total operating expenses 154 6 160 151 7 158 Segment result 117 6 111 114 7 107 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional 2018 items and other 2018 2017 items and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results Others $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 10 10 9 9 Cost of sales 7 7 6 6 Gross profit 3 3 3 3 Total operating expenses 8 8 7 7 Segment result 5 5 4 4 Others mainly comprises Arab Medical Containers LLC, International Pharmaceutical Research Center LLC, Hikma Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific FZ LLC, and the chemicals division of Hikma Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan.
133 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5. Business segments continued 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional items 2018 items and other 2018 2017 and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results Group $m $m $m $m $m $m Segment result 540 89 451 447 1,133 686 Unallocated expenses 80 80 61 61 Operating profit loss 460 89 371 386 1,133 747 Finance income 3 3 2 93 95 Finance expense 54 26 80 60 26 86 Loss from investment at fair value 1 1 Profit loss before tax 408 115 293 328 1,066 738 Tax 73 65 8 72 29 101 Profit loss for the year 335 50 285 256 1,095 839 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 3 3 4 4 Equity holders of the parent 332 50 282 252 1,095 843 335 50 285 256 1,095 839 Unallocated corporate expenses mainly comprise employee costs, third-party professional fees, IT costs, travel expenses, rent expenses and donations.
Exceptional items and other adjustments Exceptional items and other adjustments are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement to assist in understanding the Groups core performance.
2018 2017 Exceptional items $m $m Research and development cost 29 Contingent consideration gain 29 Acquisition, integration and other costs 30 26 Impairment of the Columbus business goodwill 407 Impairment of product-related intangible assets, software, property, plant and equipment and others 681 Exceptional items included in operating profit loss 59 1,085 Tax benefit associated with prior year impairment loss for which a tax benefit is recognised 43 Prior year favourable US tax ruling 13 US tax reform bill 49 Exceptional items included in profit loss 3 1,134 Other adjustments Intangible amortisation other than software 30 48 Remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial liability and asset, net 26 67 Exceptional items and other adjustments 59 1,115 Tax effect 9 20 Impact on profit loss for the year 50 1,095 134 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 134 Financial statements 6.
Exceptional items and other adjustments continued In reference to the exceptional items and other adjustments policy in note 2, the details are presented below: Exceptional items During 2018, Hikma incurred $29 million of research and development costs related to a repeat clinical endpoint study for generic Advair Diskus.
In 2017, Hikma recognised a $29 million contingent consideration gain from Boehringer Ingelheim as compensation for failure to receive FDA approval of generic Advair Diskus before 24 December 2017.
To obtain approval, the FDA requires the completion of an additional clinical endpoint study.
Both the compensation and the repeat clinical study cost have been treated as exceptional items.
Integration and other costs were incurred in relation to the restructuring of the Columbus manufacturing facility and the closure of the Eatontown manufacturing facility, in addition to the consolidation of the distribution centre in the US, of which $6 million is included in revenue, $16 million is included in cost of sales, $2 million in sales and marketing, $1 million in general and administrative and $5 million in other operating expenses.
Tax benefit associated with prior year impairment loss recognised in 2018 note 12.
The prior year favourable US tax ruling relates to the benefit associated with a change in the tax reporting for chargebacks in the US.
In previous periods, exceptional items and other adjustments were related to the following: acquisition, integration and other costs were incurred in relation to the acquisition of the Columbus business and disposal the Eatontown plant and were included in the cost of sales, general and administrative expenses, sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses and other operating expenses notes 9 and 17 impairment of the Columbus business goodwill related to the unfavourable industry developments in the US generics industry in the second half of 2017 and was included in other operating expenses note 16 impairment of product related intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and others, related to the impairment of assets of the Columbus business, including product rights, in process R&D, software and property, plant and equipment, and was included in other operating expenses notes 16 and 17.
In addition, impairment of other product-related intangible assets of $4 million which was included in research and development expenses note 16 contingent consideration gain represents compensation received from Boehringer Ingelheim for failure to receive FDA approval of generic Advair Diskus before 24 December 2017 notes 9 and 24 US tax reform bill represents the estimated impact on the US deferred tax asset of lowering the US federal tax rate which was signed in December 2017 and effective from 1st January 2018 note 12 Other adjustments Remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial liability and asset represents the net difference resulting from the valuation of the liabilities and assets associated with the future contingent payments receivables in respect of the Columbus business acquisition and the financial liability in relation to the co-development earnout payment agreement in respect of certain generic injectable products that were acquired from Boeringher Ingelheim notes 19, 24, 28 and 32.
The remeasurement is included in finance expense income.
Audit remuneration The Group auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is as below: 2018 2017 $m $m Audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.6 0.9 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.8 1.7 Total audit fees 2.4 2.6 Assurance services 0.2 0.2 Total audit and assurance fees 2.6 2.8 1.
Assurance services relate to review procedures in respect to the interim financial information 2.
Amounts have been restated for audit fees related to statutory accounts Nominal non-audit fees were charged in both years for subscriptions to a technical accounting portal, for general training and for services required to be performed by the incumbent in Ireland.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 73 to 76 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
135 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors is: 2018 2017 Number Number Production 4,634 5,017 Sales and marketing 2,246 2,123 General and administrative 1,158 1,047 Research and development 375 334 8,413 8,521 2018 2017 $m $m Their aggregate remuneration comprised: Wages, salaries and bonuses 346 321 Social security costs 32 30 Post-employment benefits 13 16 End of service indemnity 18 10 Share-based payments note 38 21 22 Car and housing allowances 20 19 Health insurance 38 39 Other costs and employee benefits 18 28 506 485 9.
Other operating expense income 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional 2018 Items and other 2018 2017 Items and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results Other operating expense $m $m $m $m $m $m Inventory related provisions 62 62 58 58 Impairment loss 8 2 10 1,101 1,101 Loss from disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 3 3 3 Forex losses net 5 5 75 5 80 61 1,101 1,162 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional 2018 items and other 2018 2017 items and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results Other operating income $m $m $m $m $m $m Gain from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 1 Forex gain net 4 4 Others 7 7 10 29 39 7 7 15 29 44 136 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 136 Financial statements 10.
Finance income 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional 2018 items and other 2018 2017 items and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results $m $m $m $m $m $m Interest income 3 3 2 2 Remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial liability and asset 93 93 3 3 2 93 95 11.
Finance expense 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional 2018 items and other 2018 2017 items and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results $m $m $m $m $m $m Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 19 19 29 29 Interest on Eurobond 22 22 22 22 Remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial liability 26 26 26 26 Other bank charges 13 13 8 8 Net foreign exchange loss 1 1 54 26 80 60 26 86 12.
Tax 2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional 2018 items and other 2018 2017 items and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results $m $m $m $m $m $m Current tax: Domestic tax 1 1 2 2 Foreign tax 36 9 27 48 20 28 Deferred tax note 13 Current year 39 43 4 22 49 71 Adjustment to prior year 3 13 16 73 65 8 72 29 101 UK corporation tax is calculated at 19.00% 2017: 19.25% of the estimated assessable profit made in the UK for the year.
The Group incurred a tax expense of $8 million 2017: $101 million.
The effective tax charge rate is 2.7%, 2017: credit 13.7%.
The reported effective tax rate is lower than the statutory rate mainly due to the tax benefit associated with the impairment loss incurred in the prior year, for which a current year deferred tax benefit is being recognised.
Taxation for all jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdiction.
137 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Tax continued The charge for the year can be reconciled to profit loss before tax per the consolidated income statement as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Profit loss before tax 293 738 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 19.00% 2017: 19.25% 56 142 Profits taxed at different rates 14 13 Permanent differences Non-taxable income 14 13 Non-deductible expenditure 2 6 Adjustment on intercompany inventory 1 7 Other 7 Impairment of goodwill 78 State and local taxes 4 4 Temporary differences Tax losses and other deductible temporary differences for which no benefit is recognised 8 119 Prior year favourable US tax ruling 13 Tax benefit associated with losses incurred in a prior year for which a current benefit is recognised 43 Tax rate changes US tax reform 49 Other deductible temporary differences for which no benefit is recognised 3 Change in provision for uncertain tax positions 2 7 Unremitted earnings 4 2 Prior year adjustments 6 Tax expense for the year 8 101 Profits taxed at different tax rates relates to profits arising in overseas jurisdictions where the tax rate differs from the UK statutory rate.
Permanent differences relate to items which are non-taxable or for which no tax relief is ever likely to be due.
The major items are differences in GAAP between IFRS and local territory GAAP, expenses and income disallowed where they are covered by statutory exemptions, foreign exchange differences in some territories and statutory reliefs such as R&D and manufacturing tax credits.
Temporary differences for which no benefit is recognised includes items on which it is not possible to book deferred tax and comprise mainly unrecognised tax losses.
Management has not recognised a benefit for the losses on the basis that there are insufficient forecasted taxable profits in the foreseeable future.
The change in provision for uncertain tax positions relates to the provisions the Group holds in the event of a revenue authority successfully taking an adverse view of the positions adopted by the Group in 2018 and primarily relates to a transfer pricing adjustment.
This category also includes adjustments favourable or adverse in respect of uncertain tax positions following agreement of the tax returns with the relevant tax authorities.
The prior year favourable US tax ruling relates to the benefit associated with a change in tax reporting for chargebacks in the US.
Prior year adjustments include differences between the tax liability recorded in the tax returns submitted for previous years and estimated tax provision reported in a prior periods consolidated financial statements.
US tax reform In 2017, the impact of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was restricted to the reduction of the US deferred tax asset, as a result of the fall in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, by $49 million note 6.
US deferred tax assets recognition In 2017, management did not recognise a tax benefit associated with the impairment of certain assets of the Columbus business on the basis that there were insufficient forecasted taxable profits in the foreseeable future.
In 2018, as a result of positive changes to the US business model due to internal reorganisation which increased the US taxable profit principally in relation to our Injectables business, management determined that it is now more likely than not that such tax benefit is realisable from forecasted taxable profits in the foreseeable future.
138 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 138 Financial statements 12.
Tax continued State Aid The Group is monitoring developments in relation to the EUs State Aid investigations, in particular, the EU Commissions announcement in October 2017 that it will be opening a State Aid investigation into the Group Financing Exemption of the UKs Controlled Foreign Company CFC legislation.
This exemption was introduced by the UK Government in 2013.
In common with other UK-based international companies that have arrangements in line with the UKs current CFC legislation, Hikma is potentially affected by the outcome of this investigation.
The Group does not currently consider any provision is required in relation to EU State Aid.
As with all uncertain tax positions, the assessment of risk is subjective and involves significant management judgement.
The judgement is based on managements understanding of legislation, experience and professional advice taken on the matters.
Publication of tax strategy In line with the UK requirement for large UK businesses to publish their tax strategy.
Hikmas tax strategy has been made available on the Groups website.
Deferred tax Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been appropriately offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Deferred tax liabilities 16 49 Deferred tax assets 125 135 109 86 The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting years.
Other short-term Deferred R&D temporary Amortisable Share-based Tax losses costs differences assets Fixed assets payments Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2017 6 1 202 23 29 157 Credit charge to income 3 71 7 4 71 At 1 January 2018 as previously reported 3 1 131 16 33 86 Impact of IFRS 9 and 15 2 2 At 1 January 2018 as adjusted 3 1 133 16 33 88 Credit charge to income 16 5 31 1 21 At 31 December 2018 3 1 117 11 2 1 109 1.
The other deferred taxes on short-term temporary differences primarily relate to charge backs and product returns in the US of $49 million 2017: $76 million, tax benefit in respect of US impairment of $39 million 2017: $nil and unrealised intercompany profits of $15 million 2017: $17 million No deferred tax asset has been recognised on temporary differences totalling $536 million 2017: $770 million due to the unpredictability of the related future profit streams.
$527 million 2017: $578 million of these temporary differences relate to losses on which no deferred tax is recognised.
None of these losses are expected to expire.
A deferred tax liability has been recognised on temporary differences relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries of $8 million 2017: $4 million.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on the remaining unremitted earnings of $187 million 2017: $278 million, as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
139 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Dividends 2018 2017 $m $m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 23.0 cents 2016: 22.0 cents per share 55 53 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 12.0 cents 2017: 11.0 cents per share 29 26 84 79 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 is 26.0 cents 2017: 23.0 cents.
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2019 and has not been included as a liability in these consolidated financial statements.
Based on the number of shares in issue at 31 December 2018 241,455,394, the unrecognised liability is $63 million.
Earnings loss per share Basic earnings loss per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of the Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that would be issued on conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares into ordinary shares.
The number of Ordinary Shares used for the basic and diluted calculations is shown in the table below.
Core basic earnings per share and core diluted earnings per share are intended to highlight the core results of the Group before exceptional items and other adjustments.
2018 2017 Exceptional Exceptional items 2018 items and other 2018 2017 and other 2017 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results note 6 results results note 6 results $m $m $m $m $m $m Earnings loss for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 332 50 282 252 1,095 843 2018 2017 Number Number Number of shares m m Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 241 240 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: Share-based awards 1 1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 242 241 2018 2018 2017 2017 Core Reported Core Reported earnings per earnings per earnings per earnings per share share share share Cents Cents Cents Cents Basic 137.8 117.0 105.0 351.3 Diluted 137.2 116.5 104.6 349.8 140 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 140 Financial statements 16.
Goodwill and other intangible assets The changes in the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 are as follows: Product-related Other identified Goodwill intangibles Software intangibles Total $m $m $m $m $m Cost Balance at 1 January 2017 683 1,006 87 106 1,882 Additions 7 31 1 39 Translation adjustments 7 2 4 13 Balance at 1 January 2018 690 1,015 118 111 1,934 Additions 12 21 33 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 43 1 1 Translation adjustments 3 1 2 6 Balance at 31 December 2018 687 1,015 130 130 1,962 Amortisation Balance at 1 January 2017 1 87 28 47 163 Charge for the year 41 11 7 59 Impairment note 6 407 505 12 924 Translation adjustments 3 3 Balance at 1 January 2018 408 633 51 57 1,149 Charge for the year 22 10 8 40 Impairment 4 5 9 Translation adjustments 1 1 2 Balance at 31 December 2018 408 658 66 64 1,196 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 279 357 64 66 766 At 31 December 2017 282 382 67 54 785 Amortisation of all intangible assets with finite useful lives is charged on a straight-line basis in which $1 million is included in the cost of sales, $30 million in sales and marketing expenses and $9 million in general and administrative expenses.
In 2018, the Group recorded a total intangible impairment charge of $9 million, of which $5 million related to software and $4 million to product related intangibles.
$7 million of the impairment charge is included within other operating expenses note 9.
In 2017, the Group recorded a total intangible impairment charge of $924 million related to goodwill of $407 million, product-related intangibles of $505 million and software of $12 million.
Of this amount $920 million relates to the impairment of the intangible assets related to the Columbus business.
As a result of this impairment the Generics business goodwill was written off to $nil.
Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Branded 166 169 Injectables 113 113 Total 279 282 141 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued In accordance with the Group policy, goodwill is tested annually for impairment during the fourth quarter or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Details related to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the CGUs are as follows: Valuation basis Higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use Key assumptions Sales growth rates Profit margins Terminal growth rate Discount rate Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes Terminal growth rates based on managements estimate of future long-term average growth rates Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate Period of specific projected cash flows 5 years Terminal Pre-tax Post-tax Terminal growth rate and discount rate growth rate perpetuity discount rate discount rate Branded 2% 16.3% 14.1% Injectables 2% 13.1% 11.1% CGUs: The Group also performed its annual goodwill impairment test on a quantitative basis for the Branded and Injectables CGUs.
The Group conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment of each CGUs carrying value.
Although the Directors have concluded sufficient headroom exists for all of the CGUs, there is a possibility that changes to the key assumptions could result in impairment.
The Group has performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions affecting the valuation of the Branded and Injectables CGUs and has determined that sufficient headroom exists.
Specifically, an evaluation of the valuation of the CGUs was made assuming an increase of 1% in the discount rate, or a 5% decline in the forecasted net sales, or a 5% decline in the gross margins in the terminal year, or a 1% decline in the terminal growth rate and in all cases sufficient headroom exists.
Whilst there is some uncertainty regarding the short-term impact of the political events in the MENA region, the Group does not consider that the likelihood of impairment losses in the long term has increased.
Headroom is defined as the excess of the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use, compared to the carrying value of a CGU Other intangible assets Other intangible assets with a net book value of $487 million at 31 December 2018 2017: $503 million consists of in-process research and development IPR&D of $236 million 2017: $223 million, product rights of $125 million 2017: $159 million and other intangible assets of $126 million 2017: $121 million.
IPR&D: As of 31 December 2018, the Group performed its annual review of IPR&D.
The result of this testing is an impairment charge of $4 million.
Product rights: Whenever impairment indicators are identified for definite life intangible assets, Hikma reconsiders the assets estimated life, calculates the undiscounted value of the assets or asset groups cash flows and compares such value against the assets or asset groups carrying amount.
If the carrying amount is greater, Hikma records an impairment loss for the excess of book value over valuation based on the discounted cash flows by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams.
The more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the recoverable amount of identifiable intangible assets include all assumptions associated with forecasting product profitability.
As at 31 December 2018, management did not identify any impairment indicators.
Software: Software intangibles mainly represent the Enterprise Resource Planning solutions that are being implemented in different operations across the Group in addition to other software applications.
The software has an average estimated useful life that varies from three to ten years.
In 2018, the Group recorded an impairment charge of $5 million related to software.
Customer relationships: Customer relationships represent the value attributed to existing direct customers that the Group acquired on the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The customer relationships have an average estimated useful life of 15 years.
Trade name: Trade names were mainly recognised on the acquisition of Hikma Germany GmbH Germany and Promopharm with estimated useful lives of ten years.
Marketing rights: Marketing rights are amortised over their useful lives commencing in the year in which the rights are ready for use with estimated useful lives that vary from two to ten years.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had entered into definitive contractual commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets of $4 million 2017: $5 million.
142 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 142 Financial statements 17.
Property, plant and equipment Vehicles, Land and Machinery and fixtures and Projects under buildings equipment equipment construction Total $m $m $m $m $m Cost Balance at 1 January 2017 530 539 98 192 1,359 Additions 2 7 8 95 112 Adjustments to opening balance 2 1 1 4 Disposals 1 4 2 2 9 Transfers 52 64 7 123 Translation adjustment 7 12 2 2 23 Balance at 1 January 2018 592 619 114 164 1,489 Additions 8 15 6 100 129 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 43 7 5 12 Disposals 33 22 4 3 62 Transfers 6 18 2 26 Translation adjustment 6 8 1 4 19 Balance at 31 December 2018 574 627 117 231 1,549 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2017 84 242 57 7 390 Charge for the year 21 45 11 77 Adjustments to opening balance 2 1 1 4 Disposals 1 2 3 Impairment note 6 86 84 5 6 181 Translation adjustment 3 8 1 12 Balance at 1 January 2018 196 379 73 13 661 Charge for the year 19 38 12 69 Disposals 19 23 4 46 Impairment note 6 3 3 Translation adjustment 2 5 1 8 Balance at 31 December 2018 194 392 80 13 679 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 380 235 37 218 870 At 31 December 2017 396 240 41 151 828 Land is not subject to depreciation.
A depreciation amount of $55 million is included within the cost of sales, $2 million in sales and marketing expenses, $7 million in general and administrative expenses and $5 million in research and development expenses.
In 2018, the Group reported an impairment charge of $3 million, of which $2 million related to the closure of Eatontown note 6.
The net book value of the Groups property, plant and equipment includes an amount of $2 million 2017: $6 million in respect of assets held under finance lease.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had pledged property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of $8 million 2017: $11 million as collateral for various long-term loans.
This amount includes both specific items around the Group and the net property, plant and equipment of the Groups businesses in Germany and Tunisia 2017: Germany, Tunisia and Egypt.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to $27 million 2017: $12 million.
143 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Investments in associates and joint ventures The Groups share in Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co Ltd China is 49.0% at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 30.1% with an investment balance of $8 million at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: $3 million, The Groups share of the results of Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co Ltd China is $nil 2017: loss of $1 million.
For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2017 Joint Joint ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at 1 January 3 3 6 3 4 7 Additions 5 5 Share of loss 1 1 Reclassification 8 8 Balance at 31 December 11 11 3 3 6 On 13 February 2018, Hikma acquired an additional stake in Hubei Haosun Pharmaceuticals Co Ltd China bringing the total ownership to 49.0% 2017:30.1%.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups interests in joint ventures and associated companies is set out below: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Total assets 17 16 Total liabilities 2 7 Net assets 15 9 Groups share of net assets of joint ventures associate 7 3 For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Total revenue 6 3 Net profit loss 1 1 Groups share of loss of joint ventures associate 1 1.
This represents the Groups share of net assets share of results of Hubei Haosun Pharmaceuticals Co Ltd In 2017, Hikma and MIDROC have agreed not to proceed with the Hikmacure joint venture and to liquidate it.
As part of the liquidation process the joint venture granted two loans of $2 million each to the Group and MIDROC, the balance is currently outstanding and the liquidation is still in progress.
144 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 144 Financial statements 19.
Financial and other non-current assets As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Investments at FVTOCI 2017: available-for-sale investments 27 16 Other non-current asset 30 44 57 60 Investments at FVTOCI include investments in seven venture capital companies through the Groups venture capital arm Hikma International Ventures Developments LLC and Hikma Ventures Limited.
Other non-current assets mainly represent inventory expected not to be sold within one year.
Inventories As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Finished goods 135 135 Work-in-progress 83 63 Raw and packing materials 253 234 Goods in transit 32 33 Spare parts 25 23 528 488 Inventories are stated net of provisions as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2017 Additions Utilisation 2018 $m $m $m $m Provisions against inventory 81 62 71 72 145 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Trade and other receivables As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Trade receivables 654 650 Prepayments 57 41 VAT and sales tax recoverable 17 13 Employee advances 3 3 731 707 The fair value of receivables is estimated to be equal to the carrying amount.
Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for chargebacks and doubtful debts as follows: As at 31 December As at 2017 and As at 31 December 1 January 2018 Additions Translation 31 December 2017 IFRS 9 impact adjusted releases, net Utilisation adjustments 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Chargebacks and other allowances 238 238 1,861 1,863 236 Doubtful debts 67 3 70 11 2 1 56 305 3 308 1,850 1,865 1 292 More details on the Groups policy for credit and concentration risk are provided in note 31.
Collateralised and restricted cash Collateralised and restricted cash amounted to $nil 2017: $4 million and mainly represents restricted cash retained against short-term bank transactions granted to the Groups Sudanese, Algerian and Egyptian operations.
Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Cash at banks and on hand 112 98 Time deposits 128 80 Money market deposits 36 49 276 227 Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less which are convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
146 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 146 Financial statements 24.
Other current assets As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Price adjustment receivable 20 61 Investment at FVTPL 2017: available-for-sale investments 21 22 Others 18 12 59 95 Price adjustment receivable represents the current portion of the contingent receivable in relation to the Columbus business acquisition, whereby as part of the acquisition, the Group will be reimbursed for certain contingent payments in respect of milestones and other conditions based on future events.
During the year, the Group received $45 million reimbursement 2017: $3 million in cash.
The non-current portion of price adjustment receivable is included within other non-current assets note 19.
Investment at FVTPL represents the agreement the Group entered into with an asset management firm in 2015 to manage a $20 million portfolio of underlying debt instruments.
The investment comprises a portfolio of assets that are managed by an asset manager and is measured at fair value: any changes in fair value go through consolidated income statement.
This asset is classified as level 1 as it uses quoted prices in active markets.
Bank overdrafts and loans As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Bank overdrafts 10 Import and export financing 58 48 Short-term loans 7 1 Current portion of long-term loans note 29 9 27 74 86 2018 2017 % % The weighted average interest rates paid are as follows: Bank overdrafts 5.31 4.55 Bank loans including the non-current bank loans 4.48 3.65 Eurobond 4.25 4.25 Import and export financing 5.45 4.58 Import and export financing represents short-term financing for the ordinary trading activities of the Group.
Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Trade payables 263 218 Accrued expenses 185 134 Other payables 17 13 465 365 The fair value of payables are estimated to be equal to the carrying amount.
Other payables mainly comprise employees provident fund liability of $7 million 31 December 2017: $4 million, which mainly represents the outstanding contributions to the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Ltd Jordan retirement benefit plan, on which the fund receives 3.5% interest.
147 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Other provisions Other provisions represent the end of service indemnity provisions for employees of certain Hikma Group subsidiaries.
This provision is calculated based on relevant laws in the countries where each Group company operates, in addition to their own policies.
Movements on the provision for the end of service indemnity: 2018 2017 $m $m 1 January 26 27 Additions 5 3 Utilisation 8 4 At 31 December 23 26 28.
Other current liabilities As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Contract liability 151 127 Co-development and earnout payment 2 3 Supply manufacturing agreement 18 9 Obligations under finance leases note 30 1 1 Indirect rebate and other allowances 65 67 Others 26 31 263 238 1.
The 2018 balance includes the IFRS 15 transition impact of $27 million note 1 Contract liability: The Group allows customers to return products within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date.
In addition, free goods are issued to customers as sale incentives, reimbursement of agreed upon expenses incurred by the customer or as compensation for expired or returned goods.
Co-development and earn out payment agreement: The liability mainly relates to the present value of future payments on a co-development and earn out agreement.
As part of this agreement, milestone payments dependent on successful clinical development of defined products are received by the Group.
In return of receiving such milestone payments, the Group has agreed to pay the contracting party a certain percentage of future sales of those products.
As at 31 December 2018, the liability associated with these earn out payments was adjusted to reflect the present value of the expected future cash outflows and the difference is presented as a finance expense.
This balance represents the current portion of the liability and the non-current portion is disclosed in note 32.
Supply manufacturing agreement: As part of the acquisition of the Columbus business, the Group entered into supply and manufacturing contracts with the seller, Boehringer Ingelheim.
Indirect rebate and other allowances: represents rebates granted to healthcare authorities and other parties under contractual arrangements with certain customers, see note 2.
148 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 148 Financial statements 29.
Long-term financial debts As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Long-term loans 51 201 Long-term borrowings Eurobond 497 496 Less: current portion of long term loans note 25 9 27 Long-term financial loans 539 670 Breakdown by maturity: Within one year 9 27 In the second year 509 139 In the third year 8 520 In the fourth year 8 4 In the fifth year 9 2 In the sixth year 5 5 548 697 Breakdown by currency: US dollar 514 673 Euro 17 12 Algerian dinar 16 Saudi riyal 1 Egyptian pound 9 Tunisian dinar 1 2 548 697 The loans are held at amortised cost.
Long-term loans amounting to $1 million 31 December 2017: $2 million are secured on certain property, plant and equipment.
Included in the table above are the following major arrangements entered into by the Group: a A $500 million carrying value of $497 million, and fair value of $496 million 4.25% Eurobond due in April 2020 with the rating of BB Ba1.
The proceeds were used to refinance existing debt and to finance part of the cash consideration of the Columbus business acquisition.
b A syndicated revolving credit facility of $1,175 million was entered into on 27 October 2015.
The facility has an outstanding balance of $nil at 31 December 2018, with a fair value of $nil 2017: $112 million with a fair value of $112 million and a $1,175 million unused available limit 2017: $1,063, $1,000 million of the facility matures on 24 December 2021 and the remainder matures on 24 December 2019.
The facility can be used for general corporate purposes.
c A ten-year $150 million loan from the International Finance Corporation was entered into on 21 December 2017.
There was no utilisation of the loan as at 31 December 2018.
Quarterly equal repayments of the long-term loan will commence on 15 March 2021.
The loan will be used in the MENA region and in other World Bank countries of operation for general corporate purposes.
The facility matures on 15 December 2027.
149 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Obligations under finance leases Present value of minimum Minimum lease payments lease payments 2018 2017 2018 2017 $m $m $m $m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 2 2 1 1 In the second to fifth years inclusive 24 21 23 20 26 23 24 21 Less: Interest lease charges 2 2 Present value of minimum lease payments payable 24 21 1.
The current portion of the obligations under finance leases is included within other current liabilities note 28 It is the Groups policy to lease certain of its property, plant and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term is five years 2017: five years.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, the average effective borrowing rate was between 1.89% and 14.00% 2017: between 1.87% and 14.00%.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives Credit and concentration of risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and investments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful debts, chargebacks, and other allowances.
A provision for impairment is made based on expected credit losses which are estimated based on previous experience, current events and forecasts of future conditions.
The credit risk on liquid investments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
In line with local market practice, customers in the MENA region are offered relatively long payment terms compared to customers in Europe and the US.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Groups largest two customers in the MENA region represented 5.3% of Group revenue, 3.5% from one customer in Saudi Arabia, and 1.8% from a customer in Algeria.
At 31 December 2018, the amount of receivables due from all customers based in Saudi Arabia was $83 million 2017: $131 million, and in Algeria was $55 million 2017: $67 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, three key US wholesalers represented 40.0% of Group revenue 2017: 44.3%.
The amount of receivables due from all US customers at 31 December 2018 was $298 million 2017: $293 million.
The Group manages this risk through the implementation of stringent credit policies, procedures and certain credit insurance agreements.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise.
Credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer, based on a number of qualitative and quantitative factors related to the creditworthiness of a particular customer.
The Group is exposed to a variety of customers ranging from government-backed agencies and large private wholesalers to privately owned pharmacies, and the underlying local economic risks vary across the Group.
Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk through the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance.
150 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 150 Financial statements 31.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives continued The following table provides a summary of the age of trade receivables note 21 : Not past due on Past due the reporting less than 90 Between 91 and Between 181 and Over date days 180 days 360 days one year Total At 31 December 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m Total trade receivables as at 31 December 2018 739 102 21 21 63 946 Related allowance for doubtful debts 1 1 1 53 56 738 102 20 20 10 890 Chargebacks and other allowances 236 Net receivables 654 Past due Not past due on the reporting less than 90 Between 91 and Between 181 and Over date days 180 days 360 days one year Total At 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Total trade receivables as at 31 December 2017 750 82 22 24 77 955 Related allowance for doubtful debts 1 1 1 64 67 749 82 21 23 13 888 Chargebacks and other allowances 238 Net receivables 650 Market risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
The Groups objective is to reduce, where it is appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings and cash flow associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates.
Management actively monitors these exposures to manage the volatility relating to these exposures by entering into a variety of derivative financial instruments.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital and monitors its liquidity to have reasonable assurance that the Group will be able to continue as a going concern and deliver its growth strategy objectives, whilst reducing its cost of capital and maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity mix.
The Group regularly reviews the capital structure by considering the level of available capital and the short to medium-term strategic plans concerning future capital spend, as well as the need to meet dividends, banking covenants, and borrowing ratios.
The Group defines capital as equity plus net funds, which includes bank overdrafts and loans note 25, obligations under finance leases note 30, long-term financial debts note 29, net of cash and cash equivalents note 23, and collateralised and restricted cash note 22.
151 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives continued During the year, the Group continued its strategy of obtaining debt financing at both the Group level and at the operating entities level.
This enables the Group to borrow at competitive rates and to build relationships with local, regional and international banks and is therefore deemed to be the most effective means of raising finance, while maintaining the balance between borrowing costs, asset and liability management, and consolidated balance sheet currency risk management.
In order to monitor the available net funds, management reviews financial capital reports on a monthly basis, in addition to the continuous review by the Group treasury function.
At 31 December 2018, the Groups gearing ratio total debt equity was 38% 2017: 51%.
The decrease in the Groups gearing ratio is due to the repayment of long-term debt during 2018.
Cash management The Group manages the deployment of cash balances to predefined limits approved by the Board of Directors under the cash risk management policy.
Per the policy, the Groups excess cash should be held with highly rated global and regional financial institutions.
The aim of the policy is to mitigate the risk of holding cash in certain currencies, countries and financial institutions, through a specific threshold.
The Group reviews the policy periodically to meet Hikmas risk appetite.
Foreign exchange risk and currency risk The Group uses the US dollar as its presentation currency and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange movements primarily in the Euro, Algerian dinar, Sudanese pound, Japanese yen, Egyptian pound, Tunisian dinar and Moroccan dirham.
Consequently, where possible, the Group enters into various contracts, which change in value as foreign exchange rates change, to hedge against the risk of movement in foreign denominated assets and liabilities.
Due to the lack of open currency markets, the Algerian dinar, the Sudanese pound, the Tunisian dinar, the Moroccan dirham and the Egyptian pound cannot be hedged at reasonable cost.
Where possible, the Group uses financing facilities denominated in local currencies to mitigate the risks.
The Jordanian dinar, Saudi riyal and Lebanese pound had no impact on the consolidated income statement as those currencies are pegged against the US dollar.
Currency risks, as defined by IFRS 7, arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is other than the functional currency of an entity and being of a monetary nature.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives continued Net foreign currency financial assets liabilities US dollar Euro Algerian dinar Japanese yen Others 2018 $m $m $m $m $m Functional currency of entity: Jordanian dinar 89 43 21 3 9 Euro 6 Algerian dinar 6 1 Saudi riyal 27 1 Sudanese pound 27 Egyptian pound 42 1 Tunisian dinar 1 2 Moroccan dirham 3 6 Lebanese pound 2 1 US dollar 1 2 41 37 21 3 10 1.
Others include Saudi riyal, Jordanian dinar and Pound sterling Net foreign currency financial assets liabilities US dollar Euro Algerian dinar Japanese yen Others 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Functional currency of entity: Jordanian dinar 19 28 11 1 37 Euro Algerian dinar 6 Saudi riyal 39 3 4 Sudanese pound 10 Egyptian pound 35 1 Tunisian dinar 2 2 Moroccan dirham 1 5 Lebanese pound 3 2 US dollar 1 1 21 11 5 40 1.
Others include Saudi riyal and Jordanian dinar A sensitivity analysis based on a 10% movement in foreign exchange rates has no material impact on the Group results or the Group consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The Group sets certain limits on liquid funds per currency other than the functional currency of the Group and per country.
153 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives continued As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2017 Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 521 116 637 515 262 777 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 164 164 129 129 An interest rate sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 100 basis point change in interest rates in all currencies from their levels at 31 December 2018, with all other variables held constant.
Based on the composition of the Groups debt portfolio as at 31 December 2018, a 1% increase decrease in interest rates would not result in a material decrease increase in finance cost being incurred per year 2017: $1 million increase decrease.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following financial assets liabilities are presented at their carrying value which approximates to their fair value: cash and cash equivalents due to the short-term maturities of these financial instruments and given that generally they have negligible credit risk, management considers the carrying amounts to be not significantly different from their fair values short-term loans and overdrafts approximates to their fair value because of the short maturity of these instruments long-term loans loans with variable rates are re-priced in response to any changes in market rates and so management considers the carrying amount to be not significantly different from their fair market value loans with fixed rates relate to the $500 million Eurobond accounted through amortised cost.
The fair value is determined with reference to quoted price in an active market on the consolidated balance sheet date note 29 receivables and payables the fair values of receivables and payables are estimated to be equal to the respective carrying amounts: lease obligations are valued at the present value of the minimum lease payments Management classifies items that are recognised at fair value based on the level of inputs used in their fair value determination as described below: Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: Inputs that are observable for the asset or liability Level 3: Inputs that are not based on observable market data Financial assets and liabilities that fall under Level 1 are: Investment at FVTPL amounted to $21 million note 24.
Financial assets and liabilities that fall under Level 3 are: Co-development and earnout payment liabilities note 28 Contingent consideration asset and liability resulting from the acquisition of the Columbus business notes 24,28 and 32 Investment at FVTOCI note 19 154 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 154 Financial statements 31.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives continued The following table presents the changes in Level 3 items for the year ended 31 December 2018 and the year ended 31 December 2017: Financial Financial assets liabilities $m $m Balance at 1 January 2017 39 258 Additions 29 Release 3 3 Remeasurement through income statement note 6 2 65 Balance at 31 December 2017 and 1 January 2018 67 190 Restatement on adoption of IFRS 9 16 Balance at 1 January 2018 adjusted 83 190 Received settlement 45 2 Remeasurement through income statement note 6 26 Additions 4 Fair value adjustments recognised in equity 7 Balance at 31 December 2018 49 214 1.
As per IFRS 9 available-for-sale investments stated at cost under IAS 39 cost exemption have been re-classified to investments at FVTOCI Liquidity risk of assets liabilities Liquidity risk Less than one One to five More than five year years years Total 2018 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 276 276 Trade receivables 654 654 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 32 548 6 586 Interest-bearing import and export loans 68 68 Interest bearing finance lease 2 24 26 Trade payables and accruals 448 448 380 572 6 198 Less than one One to five More than five year years years Total 2017 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 227 227 Trade receivables 650 650 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 52 700 6 758 Interest-bearing overdrafts 10 10 Interest-bearing import and export loans 51 51 Interest-bearing finance lease 2 21 23 Trade payables and accruals 352 352 410 721 6 317 1.
As these are interest bearing liabilities, expected interest expense have been included in the balance The Group regularly monitors all cash, cash equivalents and debt to maintain liquidity needs, this is done by analysing debt headroom and expected cash flows.
The Group seeks to be proactive in its liquidity management to avoid any adverse liquidity effect.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had undrawn facilities of $1,724 million 2017: $1,534 million.
Of these facilities, $1,391 million 2017: $1,256 million were committed and the remainder were uncommitted.
155 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Other non-current liabilities As at 31 December 2018 2017 $m $m Contingent consideration 204 178 Contingent liability 109 109 Supply manufacturing agreement note 28 4 25 Co-development and earnout payment note 28 7 8 Others 5 4 329 324 Contingent consideration and contingent liability represent a contractual liability to make payments to thirds parties in the form of milestone payments that depend on the achievement of certain US FDA approval milestones: and royalty payments based on future sales of certain products that are currently under development.
Share capital Issued and fully paid included in shareholders equity: 2018 2017 Number $m Number $m At 1 January 240,678,894 40 239,954,532 40 Issued during the year Ordinary Shares of 10p each 776,500 724,362 At 31 December 241,455,394 40 240,678,894 40 34.
Non-controlling interests 2018 2017 $m $m At 1 January 14 15 Share of profit 3 4 Dividends paid 3 2 Currency translation loss 2 1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 At 31 December 12 14 156 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 156 Financial statements 35.
Own shares The Employee Benefit Trust EBT of Hikma holds 40,831 2017: 40,831 Ordinary Shares in the Company.
The trustee of the EBT is Link Trustees Jersey Limited an independent trustee.
The market value of the Ordinary Shares held in the EBT at 31 December 2018 was $0.9 million 2017: $0.6 million.
The book value of the retained own shares at 31 December 2018 are $0.6 million 2017: $0.6 million.
The Ordinary Shares held in the EBT will be used to satisfy long-term commitments arising from the employee share plans operated by the Company.
Net cash generated from operating activities 2018 2017 $m $m Profit loss before tax 293 738 Adjustments for: Depreciation, amortisation, impairment, and write-down of: Property, plant and equipment 72 258 Intangible assets 49 983 Loss from investment at fair value through profit or loss 1 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 3 Movement on provisions 3 1 Cost of equity-settled employee share scheme 21 22 Finance income 3 95 Interest and bank charges 80 86 Foreign exchange loss gain 5 4 Cash flow before working capital 518 514 Change in trade and other receivables 41 52 Change in other current assets 5 28 Change in inventories 51 31 Change in trade and other payables 88 15 Change in other current liabilities 7 31 Change in other non-current liabilities 23 7 Cash generated from operations 493 546 37.
Contingent liabilities A contingent liability existed at the consolidated balance sheet date in respect of external guarantees and letters of credit totalling $53 million 31 December 2017: $47 million, arising in the normal course of business.
No provision for these liabilities has been made in these consolidated financial statements.
In 2018, the Group received a civil investigative demand from the US Department of Justice requesting information related to products, pricing and related communications.
In 2017, the Group had received a subpoena from a US state attorney general and a subpoena from the US Department of Justice.
Hikma is still cooperating with all such demands, and management still does not believe that sufficient evidence exists at this point to make any provision.
157 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38.
Share-based payments Executive Incentive Plan The 2014 Executive Incentive Plan EIP was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The EIP is a combined cash bonus element A, deferred shares element B and restricted shares element C scheme.
Under the EIP, the Group makes grants of conditional awards and $nil cost options under elements B and C to the Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group.
Awards under all elements are dependent on the achievement of individual and Group KPIs over one year prior to grant.
The shares awarded under element B are not released for a period of two years during which they are subject to a forfeiture condition.
The shares awarded under element C are not released for a period of three years, but are not subject to a forfeiture condition.
Members of the Executive Committee must retain 100% of the shares received from elements B and C for a period of five years from the date of grant.
For EIP element B and C grants made in 2017 and before, Members of the Executive Committee must retain 50% of these shares for a period of five years from the date of grant.
The fair value per share is the face value of shares on the date of grant.
158 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 158 Financial statements 38.
Share-based payments continued Management Incentive Plan The 2009 Management Incentive Plan MIP was approved by shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, whereby shareholders consented to the Group satisfying awards under the MIP from newly issued shares.
Under the MIP, the Group makes grants of conditional awards to management across the Group below senior management level.
Awards are dependent on the achievement of individual and Group KPIs over one year and are then subject to a two-year holding period.
The 2009 MIP awards were made at the start of the KPI performance period, whereas the 2011 awards and future awards will be made at the end of the KPI performance period.
Details of the grants under the plan are shown below: 2018 grants 2017 grants 2016 grants 2015 grants 2014 grants 2013 grants 16 May 19 May 11 May 14 May 11 June 17 May Total Year 2018 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 259,099 173,725 10,563 8,149 4,787 456,323 Granted during the year 443,288 443,288 Exercised during the year 3,960 17,270 165,471 186,701 Expired during the year 2,966 3,363 6,329 Outstanding at 31 December 436,362 238,466 8,254 10,563 8,149 4,787 706,581 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 1.76 0.37 7.34 6.37 5.45 4.38 1.28 2017 grants 2016 grants 2015 grants 2014 grants 2013 grants 19 May 11 May 14 May 11 June 17 May Total Year 2017 Number Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 192,725 132,442 12,632 9,973 347,772 Granted during the year 273,724 273,724 Exercised during the year 121,879 4,483 5,186 131,548 Expired during the year 14,625 19,000 33,625 Outstanding at 31 December 259,099 173,725 10,563 8,149 4,787 456,323 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 1.38 0.36 7.37 6.45 5.30 1.27 The cost of the MIP of $8 million 2017: $6 million has been recorded in the consolidated income statement as part of general and administrative, sales and marketing, cost of sales, and research and development expenses.
The fair value per share is the face value of shares on the date of grant less the present value of dividends expected to be paid during this period.
Valuation is based on Black-Scholes methodology for nil-cost options.
159 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38.
Share-based payments continued Long-term Incentive Plan The 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting and the last grant was made under the LTIP during the year ended 31 December 2014.
The LTIP is settled by equity instruments, with 15 separate grant dates.
Under the LTIP, conditional awards and $nil cost options were granted which vest after three years subject to a total shareholder return TSR, revenue growth, earnings per share and return on invested capital performance conditions.
The TSR condition measures the Groups TSR relative to a comparator group of other pharmaceutical companies.
The TSR vesting schedule dictates that 20% of awards vest for median performance and 100% for upper quartile performance, with pro-rata vesting in between these points.
No awards vest for performance which is below the median.
The estimated fair value of each share option granted in the LTIP was calculated by applying the Monte Carlo simulation methodology.
For awards made from 2011, 50% of the award is subject to a TSR performance condition which was valued by applying the Monte Carlo simulation methodology, the remaining 50% of the award is subject to financial metrics which are valued by applying the Black-Scholes model.
For further details, see the Remuneration Committee report.
The exercise price of the share award is $nil.
Further details on the number of shares outstanding are as follows: 2014 2013 2012 grants grants grant 11 June 17 May 16 March Total Year 2018 Number Number Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 24,720 26,630 22,220 73,570 Exercised during the year 4,347 4,347 Expired during the year 903 903 Outstanding at 31 December 19,470 26,630 22,220 68,320 Exercisable at 31 December 19,470 26,630 22,220 68,320 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 5.45 4.38 3.21 4.30 160 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 160 Financial statements 38.
Share-based payments continued 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2012 2007 grants grants grants grants grants grants grant grants 3 December 14 June 29 May 3 April 6 November 17 May 16 March 23 April Total Year 2017 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 5,899 151,429 109,000 84,954 5,180 31,985 22,220 13,000 423,667 Exercised during the year 4,885 104,914 90,252 70,342 4,485 4,637 13,000 292,515 Expired during the year 1,014 21,795 18,748 14,612 695 718 57,582 Outstanding at 31 December 24,720 26,630 22,220 73,570 Exercisable at 31 December 24,720 26,630 22,220 73,570 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 6.45 5.38 4.21 5.39 No costs for LTIPs were recognised in the consolidated income statement 2017: $1 million credited to profit and loss.
Operating lease arrangements 2018 2017 $m $m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in profit or loss for the year 13 9 At the consolidated balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Within one year 7 9 In two to five years inclusive 21 22 After five years 10 13 38 44 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties.
Leases are negotiated for a term of one to eight years.
161 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 40.
Related parties Transactions between Hikma and its subsidiaries together, the Group have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates, joint ventures and other related parties are disclosed below.
Trading transactions During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties: Boehringer Ingelheim BI : is a related party of Hikma because BI owns 16.6% 2017: 16.6% of the share capital of Hikma, controls 11.8% 2017: 11.8% of the voting capital of Hikma, has the right to appoint a director of Hikma and a senior executive of BI holds a directorship of Hikma.
The Group total sales to BI amounted to $66.6 million 2017: $79.1 million and the Group total purchases from BI amounted to $5.1 million 2017: $10.6 million.
As at the year end, the amount owed from BI to the Group was $18.1 million 2017: $43.8 million.
Additionally, balances arising from the acquisition of the Columbus business from BI relating to contingent consideration are disclosed in notes 24, 28 and 32.
Capital Bank, Jordan: is a related party of Hikma because one director of Hikma is the founder and former Chief Executive Officer of Capital Bank.
At the year end, total cash balance at Capital Bank was $7.5 million 2017: $11.8 million and utilisation of facilities granted by Capital Bank to the Group amounted to $nil 2017: $nil.
The interest income is within the market range.
Darhold Limited Darhold : is a related party of Hikma because three directors of Hikma jointly constitute the majority of directors and shareholders with immediate family members in Darhold and because Darhold owns 24.85% 2017: 24.93% of the share and voting capital of Hikma.
Other than dividends as paid to all shareholders, there were no transactions between the Group and Darhold Limited during the year.
Hikmacure Limited Hikmacure : is a related party of Hikma because Hikmacure is a 50:50 joint venture JV with MIDROC Pharmaceuticals Limited MIDROC.
Hikma and MIDROC have invested in Hikmacure in equal proportions of $2.5 million each in cash 2017: $2.5 million.
During 2017, Hikma and MIDROC agreed not to proceed with and to liquidate the venture.
HMS Holdings SAL HMS : is a related party of Hikma because HMS is owned by the family of two directors of Hikma.
Other than dividends as paid to all shareholders, there were no transactions between the Group and HMS during the year.
Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co Ltd Haosun : is a related party of Hikma because the Group holds a 49.0% interest in the joint venture JV with Haosun 2017: 30.1%.
During 2018, total purchases from Haosun were $2.3 million 2017: $1.4 million.
At 31 December 2018, the amount owed from Haosun to the Group amounted to $0.2 million 2017: $1.6 million.
During the year Hikma acquired an additional stake in Haosun bringing the total ownership to 49.0% note 18.
Labatec Pharma Labatec : is a related party of the Group because Labatec is owned by the family of two directors of Hikma.
During 2018, total Group sales to Labatec amounted to $2.9 million 2017: $1.8 million.
As at the year end, the amount owed by Labatec to the Group was $0.3 million 2017: $0.3 million.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the key management personnel comprising the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and certain of senior management as set out in the Directors report of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of the individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Committee report on pages 81 to 104.
2018 2017 $m $m Short-term employee benefits 17.4 11.0 Share-based payments 8.0 10.2 Post-employment benefits 0.1 10.3 Other benefits 0.8 0.6 26.3 32.1 162 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 162 Financial statements 41.
Subsidiaries, associate and joint venture The subsidiaries, associate and joint venture of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC are as follows: Owned by the Group Owned by PLC the Company Ownership% Ownership% Ownership% Ownership% Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Shares Shares At 31 At 31 At 31 At 31 Incorporated December December December December Companys name in Address of the registered office 2018 2017 2018 2017 Al Jazeera Pharmaceutical Industry S. A. R. L Algeria Zone dActivit, Proprit N 379 Section N 04 99% 99% Staoueli, Algeria Algerie Industrie Mediterraneene Du Medicament Algeria Zone dActivit 16 15 Staoueli, Algeria 97% 97% S. A. R. L. Hikma Pharma Algeria S. A. R. L. Algeria Zone dActivit 16 15 Staoueli, Algeria 100% 100% SPA Al Dar Al Arabia pour la Fabrication fide Algeria Zone dActivit El Boustane N 78, Sidi Abdellah, 100% 100% Mdicaments Al Rahmania, Algeria Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co Ltd China No 20 Juxian Road, Gedian Economic and 49% 30% Technology Development Area, Hubei, China Hikma for Importation Co. LLC Egypt 12 El-Esraa Street, El-Mohandeseen, Lebanon 99% 99% Square, Giza, Egypt Hikma Pharma S. A. E Egypt 12 El-Esraa Street, El-Mohandeseen, Lebanon 100% 100% Square, Giza, Egypt Hikma Pharmaceuticals Industries S. A. E Egypt 16 Ahmed Hosny Street, First Zone, Naser City, 100% 100% Cairo, Egypt Hikma Specialised Pharmaceuticals S. A. E Egypt 10 D, 11 D, Industrial Zone, Badr City, Cairo, Egypt 98% 98% Hikmacure Pharmaceuticals Share Company Ethiopia Addis Ababa, Bole Sub City, Kebele 16, Woreda, 50% 50% Ethiopia Hikma Pharma GmbH Germany Lochhamer Strasse 13, 82152, Martinsried, 100% 100% Germany Thymoorgan GmbH Germany Schiffgraben 23, fide-38690, Goslar, OT 100% 100% Vienenburg, Deutchland Thymoorgan Pharmazie GmbH Germany Schiffgraben 23, fide-38690, Goslar, OT 100% 100% Vienenburg, Deutchland Hikma Finance Ireland Limited Ireland 2 Grand Canal Square, Grand Canal Harbour, 100% 100% Dublin 2, Ireland Hikma Italia S. p. A Italy Viale Certosa 10, 27100, Pavia, Italy 100% 100% Hikma Pharma Limited Jersey 47 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 0BD, Jersey 100% 100% 100% 100% Arab Medical Containers LLC Jordan P. O.
Box 80, Sahab Industrial Estate, 11512, Jordan 100% 100% Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing PSC Jordan Al Buhaira Salt, P. O.
Box 42, Jordan 100% 100% Future Pharmaceutical Industries LLC Jordan P. O.
Box 80, Sahab Industrial Estate, 11512, Jordan 100% 100% Hikma International Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan 122 Queen Zain AlSharaf Street, Bayader Wadi Al- 100% 100% Exempt Seer, Amman, Jordan Hikma International Ventures and Development Jordan Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Industrial Area, Saleem Bin 100% 100% LLC Exempt Al-Hareth Street, Building 21, P. O.
Box 182400, Amman, 11118, Jordan Hikma Investment LLC Jordan Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Industrial Area, Saleem Bin 100% 100% Al-Hareth Street, Building 21, P. O.
Box 182400, Amman, 11118, Jordan Hikma Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Industrial Area, Saleem Bin 100% 100% Al-Hareth Street, Building 21, P. O.
Box 182400, Amman, 11118, Jordan Hikma United Renewable Energy Jordan Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Industrial Area, Saleem Bin 100% 100% Al-Hareth Street, Building 21, P. O.
Box 182400, Amman, 11118, Jordan 163 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 41.
Subsidiaries, associate and joint venture continued Owned by the Group Owned by PLC the Company Ownership% Ownership% Ownership% Ownership% Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Shares Shares At 31 At 31 At 31 At 31 Incorporated December December December December Companys name in Address of the registered office 2018 2017 2018 2017 International Pharmaceutical Research Centre LLC Jordan P. O.
Box 963166, Amman, 11196, Jordan 51% 51% Sofia Travel and Tourism Jordan Mustafa Semreen Complex Building No.
29, 100% 100% Jamal Qaytoqa Street, Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Amman, Jordan Specialised for Pharmaceutical Industries LLC Jordan Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Industrial Area, Saleem 100% 100% Bin Al-Hareth Street, Building 21, P. O.
Box 182400, Amman, 11118, Jordan Hikma CIS JSC Kazakhstan Apt.
1, House 7, Building-28, Keremet 100% 100% Microdistrict, Bostandykskiy District, Almaty, A15C8X2, Kazakhstan Hikma Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. Almaty Kazakhtan Kazakhstan Apt.
1, House 7, Building-28, Keremet 100% 100% Representative Office Microdistrict, Bostandykskiy District, Almaty, A15C8X2, Kazakhstan Hikma Liban S. A. R. L. Lebanon Saria Building, Ground Floor, Embassies 67% 67% Street, Bir Hassan, Beirut, Lebanon Hikma Finance Luxembourg SARL Luxembourg 20 rue des Peupliers, L-2328 Luxembourg 100% 100% Socit fide Promotion Pharmaceutique du Maghreb Morocco Zone Industrielle du Sahel, Rue N. 7, Had 94% 94% Promopharm S. A. Soualem, Province fide Settat, Morocco Hikma International N. V Netherlands Luna Arena, Herikerberweg 238, 1101 CM, 100% 100% 100% 100% Amersterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands Hikma Pharma Benelux B. V Netherlands Nieuwe Steen 36, 1625 HV, Hoorn, 100% 100% Netherlands Eurohealth N. V Netherlands Pareraweg 45, P. O.
Box 4914, Curacao, 100% 100% Antilles Netherlands Antilles Hikma Farmaceutica, Portugal S. A Portugal Estrada Rio Da Mo no.
8, 8a, 8B-Fervenca, 100% 100% 2705-906, Terugem SNT, Portugal Lifotec Farmaceutica S. G. P. S S. A Portugal Estrada Nacional 9, Fervena, So Joo das 100% 100% Lampas e Terrugem, Sintra, Portugal Al Jazeerah Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd Saudi Arabia Riyadh Gallery, Olaya Street, P. O.
Box 106229, 100% 100% 52.5% 52.5% Riyadh-11666, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Hikma Slovakia s. r. o Slovakia Seberniho 1, 821 03 Bratislava, Slovakia 100% 100% Pharma Ixir Co. Ltd Sudan Riyad Area, Obied Khatim Street, P. O.
420, Khartoum, Sudan Savannah Pharmaceutical Industries Co. Ltd Sudan Riyad Area, Obied Khatim Street, P. O.
420, Khartoum, Sudan Eurohealth International S. A. R. L. Switzerland Rue des Battoirs 7, 1205 Genve, Switzerland 100% 100% 100% 100% APM Tunisie S. A. R. L. Tunisia Impasse N4-Energie Solaire, Zone 99% 99% Industrielle La Charguia 1, Tunis-Carthage, 2035, Tunisia STE DIndustriee Pharmaceutique Ibn Al Baytar Tunisia 11 Rue 8610 Charguia 1-2035 Tunis-Carthage, 100% 100% Tunisia STE Hikma Pharma Tunisie Tunisia Impasse N4-Energie Solaire, Zone 100% 100% Industrielle La Charguia 1, Tunis-Carthage 2035, Tunisia STE Medicef Tunisia Avenue Habib Bourguiba, Sidi Thabet, 2020 100% 100% Ariana, Tunisia 164 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 164 Financial statements 41.
Subsidiaries, associate and joint venture continued Owned by PLC the Owned by the Group Company Ownership% Ownership% Ownership% Ownership% Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Shares Shares At 31 At 31 At 31 At 31 Incorporated December December December December Companys name in Address of the registered office 2018 2017 2018 2017 Hikma Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific FZ-LLC United Arab Premises 202-204, Floor 2, Building 26, 100% 100% 100% 100% Emirates Dubai, United Arab Emirates Hikma International Trading Limited United Arab The Oberoi Centre, Level 15, Business 100% 100% 100% 100% Emirates Bay, P. O.
Box 36282, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Hikma MENA Holdings Limited United Arab The Oberoi Centre, Level 15, Business 100% 100% 100% 100% Emirates Bay, P. O.
Box 36282, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Hikma Maple Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Hikma Acquisitions UK Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Hikma Holdings UK Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Hikma UK Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Hikma Ventures Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Hikmacure Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 50% 50% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom West-Ward Holdings Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Hikma Pharmaceuticals International Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Bedford Property Holdings, Inc. United States Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange 100% 100% Street, Wilmington, New Castle, fide 19802, United States Eurohealth U. S. A. Inc United States Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange 100% 100% Street, Wilmington, New Castle, fide 19802, United States Hikma Speciality USA, Inc. United States C T Corporation System, 800 S Gay 100% 100% Street, Suite Knoxville TN 2021 37929- 9710, United States Hikma Labs Inc. United States Corporation Trust Company of Nevada 100% 100% 701 S Carson Street Suite 200, Carson City, NV 89701, United States West-Ward Columbus Inc. United States Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange 100% 100% Street, Wilmington, New Castle fide 19802, United States Hikma Injectables, Inc. United States Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange 100% 100% Street, Wilmington, New Castle fide 19802, United States Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. United States Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange 100% 100% Street, Wilmington, New Castle fide 19802, United States Hikma HK Limited Hong Kong 4603-4609, 46 F Jardine HSE, One 100% Connaught Place, Central Hong Kong Hikma Shefaa for Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies PSC Palestine West Bank Al Birah, Ramallah 100% The investments in subsidiaries are all stated at cost in Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC, while accounted for using the equity method in the Group.
The investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in the Group note 18.
The Groups subsidiaries principally operate in trading pharmaceuticals products and associated goods and services.
Companies marked were incorporated as holding companies.
165 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 42.
Defined contribution retirement benefit plan Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC has defined contribution retirement plans in five of its subsidiaries: Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC United Kingdom, Hikma Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan, Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing PSC, Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. and West-Ward Columbus Inc.
The details of each contribution plan are as follows: Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC United Kingdom The Group currently has a defined contribution pension plan available for staff working in the United Kingdom whereby the Group contributes 10% of basic salary.
Employees are immediately entitled to 100% of the Groups contributions.
The Groups contributions for the year ended 31 December 2018 were $0.4 million 2017: $0.2 million.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan The Group currently has an employee savings plan whereby the Group fully matches employees contributions, which are fixed at 10% up to 2011 was 5% of basic salary.
Employees are entitled to 30% of the Group contributions after three years of employment with the Company and an additional 10% for each subsequent year.
Employees are entitled to 100% of the Company contributions after ten years of employment with the Company.
The Groups contributions for the year ended 31 December 2018 were $3 million 2017: $3 million.
Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing PSC Jordan The Group currently has an employee saving plan whereby the employees contribute at 10%, and the Company at 15% of basic salary.
After three years of employment with the Company, employees are entitled to 100% of the Company contributions.
The Groups contributions for the year ended 31 December 2018 were $0.9 million 2017: $1 million.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. : 401 k salary saving plan Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. has a 401 kdefined contribution plan, which allows all eligible employees to defer a portion of their income through contributions to the plan.
All employees not covered by any collective bargaining agreement are eligible after being employed for 90 days.
Employees can defer up to 95% of their gross salary into the plan, not to exceed $18,500 2017: $18,000, not including catch-up contributions available to eligible employees as outlined by the Internal Revenue Service.
The Company matches the employees eligible contribution dollar-for-dollar on the first 6% of eligible pay contributed to the plan.
Employer contributions vest 50% after two years of service and 100% after three years of service.
Employees are considered to have completed one year of service for the purposes of vesting upon the completion of 1,000 hours of service at any time during a plan year.
Employer contributions to the plan for the year ended 31 December 2018 were $3.5 million 2017: $3 million.
The assets of both retirement plans are held separately from those of the Group.
The only obligation of the Group with respect to both retirement benefit plans is to make specified contributions.
West-Ward Columbus Inc. : 401 k salary saving plan West-Ward Columbus Inc. has a 401 kdefined contribution plan, which allows all eligible employees to defer a portion of their income through contributions to the plan.
Employees can defer up to 95% of their gross salary into the plan, not to exceed $18,500 2017: $18,000, not including catchup contributions available to eligible employees as outlined by the Internal Revenue Service.
The Company matches 100% on first 5% of the employees eligible contribution.
Employer contributions vest after six years of service.
Employer contributions to the plan for the year ended 31 December 2018 were $7 million 2017: $8 million.
43. Business combinations Acquisition of Geber Health On 12 March 2018, Hikma signed an asset purchase agreement with EURL Geber Health.
The overall cash consideration for the tangible and intangible assets amounted to $13 million.
This acquisition has been accounted for as per IFRS 3 business combination where a set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return exists.
The assets acquired included an oral general formulation facility located in Algeria.
Hikma has converted this facility into an oral cephalosporin facility in order to locally manufacture its cephalosporin portfolio for the Algerian market.
The fair value of the assets acquired included property, plant and equipment of $12 million and intangible assets of $1 million.
There was insignificant goodwill as a result of this acquisition.
From the date of acquisition, Geber Health contributed $4 million of revenue and $0.4 million to profit before tax of the Group.
If the acquisition of Geber health had been completed on the first day of the financial year, the Groups revenues for the year would have been approximately USD $2,073 million and the Groups profit before tax would have been approximately USD $294 million.
166 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 166 Financial statements 44.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures New and amended standards and interpretations The Group applied IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 for the first time.
The nature and effect of the changes as a result of adoption of these new accounting standards are described below.
IFRS 15 transition impact on opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2018 The Group has adopted IFRS 15 applying modified retrospective approach on 1 January 2018 with a cumulative adjustment as an increase to other current liabilities of $27 million contract liability, reflecting the free goods obligations outstanding as at 1 January 2018, an increase of trade receivables by $1 million, a decrease in the income tax provision by $1 million and the corresponding net adjustment to decrease retained earnings by $25 million.
There is no restatement to prior periods as permitted in the transition roles for IFRS 15.
IFRS 15 impact on the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 The Group revenue was reduced by $36 million under IFRS 15 reporting.
This was mainly due to the change in the accounting treatment for payments made to customers $32 million and free goods $4 million under IFRS 15.
Previously, certain customer payments were accounted for as sales and marketing expenses whereas under IFRS 15, any payments made to customers unless payments made in exchange for distinct good or service that the customer transfers to the entity are treated as a reduction of transaction price and recognised as a reduction of revenue.
See note 2 for change in accounting policy for free goods.
IFRS 15 impact on the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 The Group current liabilities balance was increased by $31 million and the retained earnings balance decreased by $29 million under IFRS 15 reporting.
This was mainly due to the change in free goods accounting treatment.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, bringing together all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments: classification and measurement: impairment: and hedge accounting.
The Group applied IFRS 9 retrospectively, with an initial application date of 1 January 2018.
The Group has not restated the comparative information, which continues to be reported under IAS 39.
Differences arising from the adoption of IFRS 9 have been recognised directly in retained earnings.
The effect of adopting IFRS 9 as at 1 January 2018 is explained in note 1.
Subsequent events Acquisition of Medlac On 2 January 2019, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Medlac Pharma Italy Co Ltd. Medlac, an injectable manufacturing company in Vietnam.
The total consideration amount includes an initial upfront cash payment of $8 million and is not expected to exceed $17 million.
The consideration includes deferred and contingent consideration payable on successful achievement of certain conditions and milestones.
The acquisition includes an injectable facility, adjacent vacant land, Medlacs product portfolio of 23 injectables products, its pipeline and all employees.
The fair value and purchase price allocation of the acquired assets and liabilities will be disclosed in the financial statements for the interim period ending 30 June 2019.
Legal settlement On 13 January 2019, a litigation matter with an external party was concluded in Hikmas favour and Hikma was entitled to receive compensation of $32 million.
The settlement amount was received on 13 February 2019 and this will be recognised in the financial statements.
167 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 167
