74 Hochschild Mining PLC SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Introduction Current share repurchase authority Members are entitled to appoint a proxy References in this section to the Articles The Company obtained shareholder to exercise all or any of their rights to are to the Companys Articles of approval at the AGM held in May 2018 for attend and to speak and vote on their Association as at the date of this report, the repurchase of up to 50,889,311 shares behalf at a general meeting or class copies of which are available from the which represented, at that time, 10% of meeting.
A member that is a corporation Registrar of Companies or on request the Companys issued share capital is entitled to appoint more than one from the Company Secretary.
Whilst no purchases individual to act on its behalf at a general have been made by the Company meeting or class meetings as a corporate References in this section to pursuant to the 2018 Authority, it is representative.
the Companies Act are to the intended that shareholder consent will Companies Act 2006. c Transfer of shares be sought on similar terms at this years The relevant provisions of the Articles AGM when the 2018 Authority expires.
Share capital state that: Issued share capital Additional share capital information registration of a transfer of an The issued share capital of the Company This section provides additional uncertificated share may be refused in as at 1 January 2018 was 507,232,310 information as at 31 December 2018. the circumstances set out in the CREST ordinary shares of 25 pence each Regulations and where, in the case of a a Structure of share capital shares.
A total of 3,321,610 shares transfer to joint holders, the number of The Company has a single class of share were issued during the year under the joint holders to whom the uncertificated capital which is divided into ordinary Companys Restricted Share Plan and, share is to be transferred exceeds four: shares of 25 pence each, which are in as a result, the number of shares in issue registered form.
the Directors may, in their absolute as at 31 December 2018 was discretion, decline to register any 510,553,920 shares.
Further information on the Companys transfer of any share which is not a fully share capital is provided in note 26 to the The Hochschild Mining Employee Share paid share.
The Directors may also consolidated financial statements.
Trust the Trust is an employee share decline to recognise any instrument of trust established to hold shares on trust b Rights and obligations attaching transfer relating to a certificated share for the benefit of employees within the to shares unless the instrument of transfer: Group.
The rights attaching to the ordinary is duly stamped if required and is shares are described in full in the Articles.
accompanied by the relevant share The Trustee of the Trust has absolute certificate s and such other evidence discretion to vote or abstain from voting in In summary, on a show of hands and on a of the right to transfer as the Directors relation to the shares held by it from time poll at a general meeting or class meeting, may reasonably require: and to time and in doing so may take into every member present in person or, account the interests of current and subject to the below, by proxy has one is in respect of only one class of share.
future beneficiaries and other vote for every ordinary share held.
The Directors may, in their absolute considerations.
However, in the case of a vote on a show discretion, refuse to register a transfer of hands, where a proxy has been if it is in favour of more than four Substantial shareholdings appointed by more than one member, the persons jointly: and As at 31 December 2018, the Company proxy has one vote for and one vote had been notified of the following the Directors may decline to register a against if the proxy has been instructed interests in the Companys shares in transfer of any of the Companys shares by one or more members to vote for the accordance with Chapter 5 of the by a person with a 0.25% interest, if such resolution and by one or more members Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure a person has been served with a notice to vote against the resolution.
Guidance and Transparency Rules: under the Companies Act after failure to provide the Company with Percentage of Percentage of information concerning interests in Number of voting rights voting rights those shares required to be provided ordinary shares indirect direct under the Companies Act.
1 Eduardo Hochschild 258,565,373 50.644% Majedie Asset Management Limited 25,384,745 4.97% d Restrictions on voting 2 No member shall be entitled to vote at Van Eck Associates Corporation 24,715,437 4.87% any general meeting or class meeting in 1 The shareholding of Mr Eduardo Hochschild is held through Pelham Investment Corporation.
respect of any shares held by him or her, if 2 T he information disclosed is taken from the latest notification received by the Company from Van Eck any call or other sum then payable by him Associates Corporation in June 2018. or her in respect of that share remains No further notifications have been received up until the date of this Annual Report.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he or she failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 75 e Deadlines for voting rights In summary, a Change of Control means Approach to appointment Votes are exercisable at the general an event or series of events by which: adopted by the Board meeting of the Company in respect a the Permitted Holders being Eduardo Under law, the Company is entitled to of which the business being voted Hochschild, his spouse, either of their adopt such practices which are no less upon is being heard.
descendants or estate or guardian of stringent than those set out in the Articles.
any of the aforementioned, a trust for Accordingly, notwithstanding the above, Votes may be exercised in person, the benefit of one or more of the the Board has adopted the by proxy or, in relation to corporate aforementioned or any entity controlled recommendation of the UK Corporate members, by a corporate representative.
by any one or more of the aforementioned Governance Code that all Directors Under the Articles, the deadline for or investment vehicle for the primary should seek annual re-election by delivering proxy forms cannot be earlier benefit of any of them shall for any shareholders.
than 48 hours excluding non-working reason cease, individually or in the days before the meeting for which the 2014 Listing Rules aggregate, to control the Company: or proxy is being appointed.
Following the implementation, in 2014, b the Permitted Holders shall for any of new Listing Rules by the Financial Shareholder agreements reason cease, individually or in the Conduct Authority in its capacity as the The Relationship Agreement entered into aggregate, to have the power to appoint UK Listing Authority, as a company with prior to the IPO between, amongst others, at least a majority of the members of the a controlling shareholder, the election or the Major Shareholder as defined in the Board of Directors or other equivalent re-election of any Independent Director Relationship Agreement and Eduardo governing body of the Company: or must be approved by: i all shareholders Hochschild collectively the Controlling c the Company shall for any reason of the Company: and ii the independent Shareholders and the Company: cease, directly or through one or more shareholders of the Company i. e. any of its Subsidiaries, to be the beneficial contains provisions restricting the person entitled to vote on the election owner as so defined of more than 50% Controlling Shareholders rights to of Directors of the Company who is not of the Equity Interests in Compania exercise their voting rights to procure a controlling shareholder.
Minera Ares S. A. C. an amendment to the Articles that If either shareholder resolution to elect would be inconsistent with the b Long-Term Incentive Plans or re-elect the Independent Director is Relationship Agreement: and Awards made under the Groups Longdefeated, the Company may propose a contains an undertaking by the Term Incentive Plan, Enhanced Longfurther resolution to elect or re-elect the Controlling Shareholders that they will, Term Incentive Plan and Restricted Share proposed Independent Director provided and will procure that their Associates Plan shall, upon a change of control of that the further resolution must not be will, abstain from voting on any the Company, vest early unless a voted on within 90 days from the date of resolution to approve a transaction with replacement award is made.
Vesting the original vote but it must then be voted a related party as defined in the FCA will be pro-rated to take account of the on within a period of 30 days from the Listing Rules involving the Controlling proportion of the period from the award end of the 90 day period.
It may then Shareholders or their Associates.
date to the normal vesting date falling be passed by a simple majority of the prior to the change of control and the shareholders of the Company voting Significant agreements extent to which performance conditions as a single class.
A change of control of the Company and any other conditions applying to following a takeover bid may cause the award have been met.
Removal of Directors a number of agreements to which The Company may, in accordance the Company, or any of its trading Summary of constitutional with and subject to the provisions of subsidiaries, is party to take effect, alter and other provisions the Companies Act by ordinary resolution or terminate.
Such agreements include of which special notice has been given, Appointment of Directors commercial trading contracts, joint remove any Director before the expiration Under the terms of the Articles venture agreements and financing of his her term of office.
The office of Directors may be appointed by the arrangements.
Further details are given Director shall be vacated if: i s he is Company by ordinary resolution or by below of those arrangements where prohibited by law from acting as a the Board.
A Director appointed by the the impact may be considered to be Director: ii s he resigns or offers to Board holds office only until the next significant in the context of the Group.
resign and the Directors resolve to accept following AGM and is then eligible for such offer: iii s he becomes bankrupt a $50m Credit Agreement election by shareholders but is not taken or compounds with his her creditors Under the terms and conditions of into account in determining the Directors generally: iv a relevant order has been the $50 million Credit and Guaranty or the number of Directors who are to made by any court on the grounds of Agreement between, amongst others, retire by rotation at that meeting.
mental disorder: v s he is absent without the Group and Scotiabank Peru S. A.
A, The Directors may from time to time permission of the Directors from meetings a Change of Control obliges the Group appoint one or more of their body to be of the Board for six months and the to prepay all Advances as defined in the the holder of any executive office for Directors resolve that his her office agreement unless any Lender notifies such period subject to the Companies be vacated: vi his her resignation is the Group that it is declining any such Act and on such terms as they may requested in writing by not less than prepayment in which case the Advances determine and may revoke or terminate three quarters of the Directors for the owing to such declining Lender shall not any such appointment.
time being: or vii in the case of a be prepaid.
Director other than the Chairman and Each Director is subject to periodic any Director holding an executive office, re-election by shareholders at intervals if the Directors shall resolve to require of no more than every three years.
Each him her to resign and within 30 days of Director other than the Chairman and being given notice of such notice s he so any Director holding executive office fails to do.
shall retire at each AGM following the ninth anniversary of the date on which he or she was elected by the Company.
76 Hochschild Mining PLC SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONTINUED Relationship Agreement Dividends and distributions In addition, under the terms of the Subject to the provisions of the Relationship Agreement: Companies Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time for as long as the Major Shareholder declare dividends not exceeding the has an interest of 30% or more in amount recommended by the Directors.
the Company, it is entitled to appoint The Directors may pay interim dividends up to two Non-Executive Directors whenever the financial position of the and to remove such Directors so Company, in the opinion of the Directors, appointed: and justifies their payment.
If the Directors act for as long as the Major Shareholder in good faith, they are not liable to holders has an interest of 15% or more of the of shares with preferred or pari passu Company, it is entitled to appoint up rights for losses arising from the payment to one Non-Executive Director and to of interim dividends on other shares.
remove such Director so appointed.
Amendment of Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles may be Additional disclosures made in accordance with the provisions Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4C R of the Companies Act by way of special For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
can be found in the following parts of this Annual Report: Section Matter Location Powers of the Directors Note 15 to the consolidated Subject to the Articles, the Companies 1 Interest capitalised financial statements Act and any directions given by special 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable resolution, the business and affairs of 4 Details of specified long-term incentive scheme None the Company shall be managed by the 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director None Directors who may exercise all such powers of the Company.
6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director None 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash None Subject to applicable statutes and other 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings None shareholders rights, shares may be 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary None issued with such rights or restrictions as 10 a Contract of significance in which a Director is interested None the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or, in the absence of any such 10 b Contract of significance with controlling shareholder None resolution, as the Directors may decide.
11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Directors Report Subject to applicable statutes and any 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors Report ordinary resolution of the Company, all 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors Report unissued shares of the Company are at 14 Agreement with controlling shareholder Directors Report the disposal of the Directors.
At each AGM, the Company puts in place annual shareholder authority seeking shareholder consent to allot unissued shares, in certain circumstances for cash, in accordance with the guidelines of the Investor Protection Committee.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as Treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is specified in the relevant shareholder resolution.
