Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 103 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Corporate information Hochschild Mining plc hereinafter the Company is a public limited company incorporated on 11 April 2006 under the Companies Act 1985 as a Limited Company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 05777693.
The Companys registered office is located at 17 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PH, United Kingdom.
The ultimate controlling party of the Company is Mr Eduardo Hochschild whose beneficial interest in the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group or Hochschild Mining Group is held through Pelham Investment Corporation, a Cayman Islands company.
On 8 November 2006, the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups principal business is the mining, processing and sale of silver and gold.
The Group has three operating mines Arcata, Pallancata and Inmaculada located in southern Peru and one operating mine San Jose located in Argentina.
The Group also has a portfolio of projects located across Peru, Argentina, Mexico and Chile at various stages of development.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2019.
The Groups subsidiaries are as follows: Equity interest at 31 December Country of 2018 2017 Company Principal activity incorporation % % 1 Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation S. A.
Holding company Argentina 100 100 2 MH Argentina S. A.
Exploration office Argentina 100 100 1 and 8 Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
Production of gold and silver Argentina 51 51 3 Minera Hochschild Chile S. C. M. Exploration office Chile 100 100 3 Andina Minerals Chile Ltd. Exploration office Chile 100 100 4 Southwest Minerals Yunnan Inc. Exploration office China 100 100 5 Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 100 5 Hochschild Mining Ares UK Limited Administrative office England and Wales 100 100 4 Southwest Mining Inc. Exploration office Mauritius 100 100 4 Southwest Minerals Inc. Exploration office Mauritius 100 100 6 Minera Hochschild Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration office Mexico 100 100 4 Hochschild Mining Peru S. A.
Holding company Peru 100 100 4 Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Production of gold and silver Peru 100 100 4 Compaa Minera Arcata S. A.
Production of gold and silver Peru 99.1 99.1 4 Empresa fide Transmisin Aymaraes S. A. C. Power transmission Peru 100 100 4 Minera Antay S. A. C. Exploration office Peru 100 100 7 Hochschild Mining US Inc. Holding company USA 100 100 1 Registered address: Av.
Santa Fe 2755, floor 9, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
2 Registered address: Sargento Cabral 124, Comodoro Rivadavia, Provincia fide Chubut, Argentina.
Apoquindo 4775, office 1002, Santiago fide Chile, Chile.
4 Registered address: La Colonia 180, Santiago fide Surco, Lima, Peru.
5 Registered address: 17 Cavendish Square, London, W1G 0PH, United Kingdom.
6 Registered address: Bustamante N 2106, Col Altavista, CP 31200, Chihuahua, Ciudad fide Mexico, Mexico.
7 Registered address: 1025 Ridgeview Dr. 300, Reno, Nevada 89519, USA.
8 The Group has a 51% interest in Minera Santa Cruz S. A. while the remaining 49% is held by a non-controlling interest.
The significant financial information in respect of this subsidiary before intercompany eliminations as at and for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Non-current assets 173,637 184,852 Current assets 67,317 103,792 Non-current liabilities 56,894 62,745 Current liabilities 42,015 44,726 Equity 142,045 181,173 Revenue 205,367 227,094 Profit for the year and total comprehensive income 12,518 25,147 Net cash generated from operating activities 38,707 58,308 Net cash used in investing activities 44,488 36,199 Cash flow used in financing activities 22,617 17,884 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated income statement, non-controlling interest in the consolidated statement of financial position, and dividends declared to non-controlling interests in the consolidated statement of changes in equity are solely related to Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
104 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and the Companies Act 2006.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 are set out below.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments that are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, as explained below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied, except for the effects of the adoption of new and amended accounting standards.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Details of the factors which have been taken into account in assessing the Groups going concern status are set out within the Directors report.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Amendments to standards and interpretations which came into force during the year did not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements and are as follows: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The IASB has issued a new standard for the recognition of revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The new revenue standard supersedes all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
The new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer.
The Group evaluated recognition and measurement of revenue based on the five-step model in IFRS 15 and has not identified significant financial impacts, hence no adjustments were recorded derived from the adoption of IFRS 15 other than certain reclassifications as explained below.
The Group adopted the new standard from 1 January 2018 applying the simplified transition method and modified retrospective approach.
Certain disclosures changed as a result of the requirements of IFRS 15.
The key issues identified, and the Groups views and perspective are set below.
Embedded derivatives arising from the sales: As discussed in note 2 p, some of the Groups sales of gold and silver contain provisional pricing features which were considered to be embedded derivatives recorded within sales.
The fair value is based on the most recent determined estimate of metal content and the estimated forward price that the entity expects to receive at the end of the quotational period stipulated in the contract.
The revaluation of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
IFRS 15 does not change the assessment of the provisional price adjustment, but they are not considered within the scope of IFRS 15, and consequently have to be disclosed separately refer to note 4.
Impact of shipping terms: The Group sells a portion of its production on CIF Incoterms and therefore the Group is responsible for shipping services after the date at which control of the gold and silver passes to the customer.
Under IAS 18, these shipping services were not considered to be part of the revenue transaction and thus the Group disclosed them as selling expenses.
However, under IFRS 15 the group reclassified the portion of those selling expenses relating to transport of gold and silver from the Groups production plants to the ports and to the customers, and reclassify those costs to cost of sales.
The shipping services reclassified for the period ending 31 December 2018 amounted to US$6,102,000.
The Group assessed the amount of costs related to shipping services which are considered a separate performance obligation under IFRS 15 and therefore, a portion of the revenue currently recognised when the tittle has passed to the customer will need to be deferred and recognised as the shipping services are subsequently provided.
Under IFRS 15 the costs related to shipping services are considered a separate performance obligation and therefore they should be deferred and recognised as the shipping services are subsequently provided.
Based on the Groups assessment, the shipping services being provided at the end of the reporting period are immaterial and therefore these have not been deferred.
The total shipping services recognised during the year as a separate performance obligation under IFRS 15 amount to $5,485,000 and have been disclosed in note 4.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 105 Based on the assessment performed, the new guidance has the following impacts on the classification and measurement of its financial instruments: Classification and measurement of the embedded derivatives arising from sales: The financial assets and liabilities arising from the revaluation provisional priced contracts are currently disclosed separately in the balance sheet as part of other financial assets liabilities.
Under IFRS 9, the embedded derivative will no longer be separated from the host contract and therefore the revaluation of provisionally priced contracts is disclosed within the receivable of the host contract in trade and other receivables.
Financial assets at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income OCI : The equity instruments that were classified as available-for-sale financial assets satisfy the conditions for classification as at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI and therefore there is no impact in classification.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are not recycled to the income statement.
Furthermore, under IFRS 9 there is no exception to carry investments in entities at costs less any recognised impairment and therefore, fair value will need to be calculated.
There are no other significant changes to the accounting treatment of these assets.
Impairment: The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses ECL rather than only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39.
The Group applies the simplified approach and records lifetime expected losses on all trade receivables.
However, given the short term nature of the Groups receivables, there is not a significant impact in the financial statements.
Disclosures: The standard introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation included in these reports.
The Group also assessed other changes introduced by IFRS 9 that have no impacts in the financial statements as explained below: There is no impact on the accounting for financial liabilities, as the new requirements of IFRS 9 only affect the accounting for financial liabilities that are designated at fair value through profit or loss and the group does not have any such liabilities.
The Group does not currently apply hedge accounting and therefore there are no impacts in the financial statements.
No impacts in relation to derecognition of financial instruments as the same rules have been transferred from IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The amendments are related to the classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions and restatement of prior periods.
The adoption of these amendments does not have a significant impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been previously adopted by the Group Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 or later periods but which the Group has not previously adopted.
Those that are applicable to the Group are as follows: IFRS 16 Leases, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 specifies how an IFRS reporter will recognise, measure, present and disclose leases.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, including the exemptions to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or when the underlying asset has a low value.
Lease costs will be recognised in the income statement over the lease term in the form of depreciation on the right of use asset and finance charges representing the unwinding of the discount on the lease liability.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17.
The Group has progressed its implementation project, focusing on a review of contracts, aggregation of data to support the evaluation of the accounting impacts of applying the new standard and assessment of the need for changes to systems and processes.
Accordingly, the Group has decided to apply the exemption of short-term leases 12 months or above and determined that only contracts with a value of US$1,000,000 or more will have a significant effect on the Groups Financial Statements, increasing the assets and liabilities and changing the classification and timing of expenses, so contracts with a value less than US$1,000,000 are not to be considered.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group has identified one contract applicable for a total value of US$5,413,000, then since 1 January 2019 the Group will recognise a right of use asset by contract and its corresponding liability and finance expenses.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRIC 23 clarifies the accounting for uncertainties in income taxes.
This interpretation is to be applied to the determination of taxable profit tax loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments under IAS 12.
The Interpretation specifically addresses the following: Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately: The assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax treatments by taxation authorities: How an entity determines taxable profit tax loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates: and How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances The interpretation is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, but certain transition reliefs are available.
The Group will apply interpretation from its effective date, however we do not expect significant impacts on the financial statements on the implementation as the Groups current treatment is in line with the requirements of the interpretation.
The Group is analysing the effect of the standards and plans to adopt the new standards on the required effective date.
106 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Significant accounting policies continued b Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the financial statements.
Significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Significant estimates: Useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes note 2 e. Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets.
For depreciation calculated under the unit of-production method, estimated recoverable reserves and resources are used in determining the depreciation and or amortisation of mine-specific assets.
This results in a depreciation amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the anticipated remaining life-of-mine production.
Each items life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves and resources of the mine property at which the asset is located.
These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions, including the amount of recoverable reserves and resources.
Changes are accounted for prospectively.
Ore reserves and resources note 2 g. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and resources.
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and resources and may, ultimately, result in the reserves and resources being restated.
Recoverable values of mining assets notes 2 i, 15, 16 and 17.
The value of the Groups mining assets is sensitive to a range of characteristics unique to each mine unit.
Key sources of estimation for all assets include uncertainty around ore reserve estimates and cash flow projections.
In performing impairment reviews, the Group assesses the recoverable amount of its operating assets principally with reference to fair value less costs of disposal, assessed using discounted cash flow models.
There is judgement involved in determining the assumptions that are considered to be reasonable and consistent with those that would be applied by market participants.
Key judgments include the estimation of future gold and silver prices, future capital requirements, exploration potential, operating performance and the application of discount rates which reflect the macro-economic risk in Peru and Argentina as applicable.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment, evaluation and exploration assets, and intangibles.
Mine closure costs notes 2 m and 25 1.
The Group assesses its mine closure cost provision annually.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
Liability for cash-settled share-based payments note 25 2.
The Group initially measures the cost of cash-settled transactions with employees using the Monte Carlo model to determine the fair value of the liability incurred.
The liability needs to be remeasured at the end of each reporting period up to the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in the profit or loss.
This requires a reassessment of the estimates used at the end of each reporting period, including the anticipated potential changes to the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance, the number of participants in the plan, and levels of interest rates.
The assumptions and models used for estimating fair value are discussed in note 25 2.
Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
Judgment is also required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Provisions are also made for uncertain exposures which can have an impact on both deferred and current tax.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained and tax provisions are made if it is probable that a liability will arise refer to note 33 a.
The final resolution of these transactions may give rise to material adjustments to the income statement and or cashflow in future periods.
The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit each period to assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 107 Critical judgements: Determination of functional currencies note 2 d. The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Recognition of evaluation and exploration assets and transfer to development costs notes 2 f, 15 and 16.
Judgement is required in determining when the future economic benefit of a project can reasonably be regarded as assured, at which point evaluation and exploration expenses are capitalised.
This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs: the timing of the end of the exploration phase, the start of the development phase: and the commencement of the production phase.
For this purpose, the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured when the Board authorises management to conduct a feasibility study, mine-site exploration is being conducted to convert resources to reserves, or mine-site exploration is being conducted to confirm resources, all of which are based on supporting geological information.
Significant judgement and assumptions for assets classified as held for sale note 22.
To determine whether an asset should be classified as an asset held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, consideration should be given as to whether the sale is highly probable.
The three main criteria are: There is a plan in place to sell the asset, the sale is due to complete within 12 months of the year end: and that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or the sale withdrawn.
As disclosed in note 22, the final payment date for the sale of San Felipe property being within more than 12 months, all the three criteria to be considered highly probable as defined by IFRS 5 have not been met and therefore the property has not been classified as an asset held for sale.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position, performance and cash flows as at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 and for the years then ended, respectively.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group regardless of the amount of shares owned by the Group.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Non-controlling interests rights to safeguard their interest are fully considered in assessing whether the Group controls a subsidiary.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee: rights arising from other contractual arrangements: and the Groups voting rights and potential voting rights.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction, affecting retained earnings.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest NCI : iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of the consideration received: v recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: and vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
An NCI represents the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated statement of financial position, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributable to the NCI even if that results in a deficit balance.
108 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any NCI in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of NCI, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets, is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the NCI, and any previously interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets meeting either the contractual-legal or the separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably.
d Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For the holding companies and operating entities this currency is US dollars and for the other entities it is the local currency of the country in which it operates.
The Groups financial information is presented in US dollars, which is the Companys functional currency.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are initially recorded in the functional currency using the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions which are translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities which are translated at period-end exchange rates, are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising from monetary items that are part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in equity and transferred to income on disposal of such net investment.
Subsidiary financial statements expressed in their corresponding functional currencies are translated into US dollars by applying the exchange rate at period-end for assets and liabilities and the transaction date exchange rate for income statement items.
The resulting difference on consolidation is included as cumulative translation adjustment in equity.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost comprises its purchase price and directly attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Economical and physical conditions of assets have not changed substantially over this period.
The cost less residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves and resources of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of production on a units of production basis for mine buildings and installations and plant and equipment used in the mining production process, or charged directly to the income statement over the estimated useful life of the individual asset on a straight-line basis when not related to the mining production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect units of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
An assets carrying amount is written-down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the net proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within other income expenses, in the income statement.
The expected useful lives under the straight-line method are as follows: Years Buildings 3 to 33 Plant and equipment 5 to 10 Vehicles 5 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to be ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are expensed where incurred.
For borrowings associated with a specific asset, the actual rate on that borrowing is used.
Otherwise, a weighted average cost of borrowing is used.
The Group capitalises the borrowing costs related to qualifying assets with a value of US$1,000,000 or more, considering that the substantial period of time to be ready is six or more months.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 109 Mining properties and development costs Purchased mining properties are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
Costs associated with developments of mining properties are capitalised.
Mine development costs are, upon commencement of commercial production, depreciated using the units of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves and resources to which they relate.
When a mine construction project moves into the production stage, the capitalisation of certain mine construction costs ceases and costs are either regarded as part of the cost of inventory or expensed, except for costs which qualify for capitalisation relating to mining asset additions or improvements, underground mine development or mineable reserve development.
In addition, the revenue generated for the sale of the inventory produced during the pre-operating stage is recognised as a deduction of the costs capitalised for this project.
Construction in progress and capital advances Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
Once the asset moves into the production phase, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditure Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is capitalised separately with the carrying amount of the component being written-off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised if future economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditures are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
f Evaluation and exploration assets Evaluation and exploration expenses are capitalised when the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured.
Projects in the development phase Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised as assets from the date that the Board authorises management to conduct a feasibility study.
Expenditure is transferred to mine development costs once the work completed to date supports the future development of the property and such development receives appropriate approval.
Identification of resources Costs incurred in converting inferred resources to indicated and measured resources of which reserves are a component are capitalised as incurred.
Costs incurred in identifying inferred resources are expensed as incurred.
g Determination of ore reserves and resources The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by internal competent persons.
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year and are stated in conformity with the 2012 Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
It is the Groups policy to have the report audited by a Competent Person.
Reserves and resources are used in the units of production calculation for depreciation as well as the determination of the timing of mine closure cost and impairment analysis.
h Intangible assets Right to use energy of transmission line Transmission line costs represent the investment made by the Group during the period of its use.
This is an asset with a finite useful life equal to that of the mine to which it relates and that is amortised applying the units of production method for that mine.
Water permits Water permits represent the cost that allow the holder to withdraw a specified amount of water from the ground for reasonable, beneficial uses.
This is an asset with an indefinite useful life.
Legal rights Legal rights correspond to expenditures required to give the Group the right to use a property for the surface exploration work, development and production.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are primarily computer software which are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life of three years.
i Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether the carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such review is undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets.
110 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Significant accounting policies continued If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit CGU exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value in use VIU and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD to sell.
FVLCD is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
VIU is based on estimated future cash flows discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable values of the CGUs, other than San Felipe, are determined using a FVLCD methodology.
FVLCD was determined using a combination of level 2 and level 3 inputs to construct a discounted cash flow model to estimate the amount that would be paid by a willing third party in an arms length transaction.
Reversal of impairment An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
j Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The cost of work in progress and finished goods ore inventories is based on the cost of production.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
k Trade and other receivables Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Noncurrent receivables are stated at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established using the expected credit loss impairment model according IFRS 9.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount and this difference is recognised in the income statement.
l Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Any excess above the par value of shares received upon issuance of those shares is classified as share premium.
In the case the excess above par value is available for distribution, it is classified as merger reserve and then transferred to retained earnings.
m Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Mine closure cost Provisions for mine closure costs are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates and operating lives.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the statement of financial position by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised.
If, for mature mines, the related mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to the income statement.
Similarly, reductions to the estimated costs exceeding the carrying value of the mine asset, that portion of the decrease is credited directly to the income statement.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Workers profit sharing and other employee benefits In accordance with Peruvian legislation, companies in Peru must provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 8% of taxable income of each year.
This amount is charged to the income statement within personnel expenses note 9 and is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
The Group has no pension or retirement benefit schemes.
Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 111 n Share-based payments Cash-settled transactions The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability between reporting dates are recognised as personnel expenses.
The fair value of the awards is taken to be the market value of the shares at the date of award adjusted by a factor for anticipated relative TSR performance.
Fair values are subsequently remeasured at each reporting date to reflect the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in other reserves in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that vest.
The income statement expense for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in personnel expenses note 9. o Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements and are disclosed in notes to the financial statements unless their occurrence is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements, but are disclosed in the notes if their recovery is deemed probable.
p Revenue recognition The Group is involved in the production and sale of gold and silver from dore and concentrate containing both gold and silver.
Dore bars are either sold directly to customers or are sent to a third-party for further refining into gold and silver before they are sold.
Concentrate is sold directly to customers.
Revenue from contracts with costumers is recognised when control of the goods or services is transferred to the costumer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
The revenue is subject to adjustment based on inspection of the product by the customer.
Revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained gold and silver.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, certain sales are provisionally priced where the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period, normally ranging from 15 to 90 days after the start of the delivery process to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met, using market prices at that date.
The price exposure is considered to be an adjustment and hence separated from the sales contract at each reporting date.
The provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotational period ends.
The selling price of gold and silver can be measured reliably as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges.
The revaluation of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as revenue.
A proportion of the Groups sales are sold under CIF Incoterms, whereby the Group is responsible for providing freight shipping services as principal after the date that the Group transfers control of the metal in concentrate to its customers.
The Group, therefore, has separate performance obligations for freight shipping services which are provided solely to facilitate sale of the commodities it produces.
Other Incoterms commonly used by the Group are Free On Board FOB, where the Group has no responsibility for freight or insurance once control of the products has passed at the loading port, and Delivered at Place DAP where control of the goods passes when the product is delivered to the agreed destination.
For arrangements which have these Incoterms, the only performance obligations are the provision of the product at the point where control passes.
For CIF arrangements, the transaction price as determined above is allocated to the metal in concentrate and freight shipping services using the relative stand-alone selling price method.
Under these arrangements, a portion of consideration may be received from the customer in cash at, or around, the date of shipment under a provisional invoice.
Therefore, some of the upfront consideration that relates to the freight shipping services yet to be provided, is deferred.
It is then recognised as revenue over time using an output method being days of shipping transportation elapsed to measure progress towards complete satisfaction of the service as this best represents the Groups performance.
This is on the basis that the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group as the services are being provided.
The costs associated with these freight shipping services are also recognised over the same period of time as incurred.
Income from services provided to related parties note 29 is recognised in revenue when services are provided.
Deferred revenue results when cash is received in advance of revenue being earned.
Deferred revenue is recorded as a liability until it is earned.
Once earned, the liability is reduced and revenue is recorded.
The Group analyses when revenue is earned or deferred.
q Finance income and costs Finance income and costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest income on funds invested, unwind of discount, and gains and losses from the change in fair value of derivative instruments.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
112 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Significant accounting policies continued r Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
s Uncertain tax positions An estimates tax liability is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Separate provisions for interest and penalties are also recorded if appropriate.
Movements in interest and penalty amounts in respect of tax provisions are not included in the tax charge, but are disclosed in the income statement.
Tax provisions are based on managements interpretation of country specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
This involves a significant amount of judgement as tax legislation can be complex and open to different interpretation.
Management uses in-house tax experts, professional firms and previous experience when assessing tax risks.
Where actual tax liabilities differ from the provisions, adjustments are made which can have a material impact on the Groups profits for the year.
Refer to note 33 a for specific tax contingencies.
t Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
The depreciation policy for leased assets is consistent with that for similar assets owned.
A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
u Financial instruments A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income OCI, and fair value through profit or loss.
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial assets contractual cash flow characteristics and the Groups business model for managing them.
The Groups business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows.
The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both.
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place regular way trades are recognised on the trade date, i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 113 Subsequent measurement For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four categories: Financial assets at amortised cost debt instruments The Group measures financial assets at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met: The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows, and The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest EIR method and are subject to impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.
The Groups financial assets at amortised cost includes trade receivables.
Financial assets at fair value through OCI debt instruments The Group measures debt instruments at fair value through OCI if both of the following conditions are met: The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective of both holding to collect contractual cash flows and selling, and The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
For debt instruments at fair value through OCI, interest income, foreign exchange revaluation and impairment losses or reversals are recognised in the statement of profit or loss and computed in the same manner as for financial assets measured at amortised cost.
The remaining fair value changes are recognised in OCI.
Upon derecognition, the cumulative fair value change recognised in OCI is recycled to profit or loss.
The Group does not have debt instruments at fair value through OCI.
Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI equity instruments Upon initial recognition, the Group can elect to classify irrevocably its equity investments as equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI when they meet the definition of equity under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and are not held for trading.
The classification is determined on an  basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to profit or loss.
Dividends are recognised as other income in the statement of profit or loss when the right of payment has been established, except when the Group benefits from such proceeds as a recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI.
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are not subject to impairment assessment.
The Group elected to classify irrevocably its listed and non-listed equity investments under this category.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets mandatorily required to be measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial assets with cash flows that are not solely payments of principal and interest are classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the business model.
Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be classified at amortised cost or at fair value through OCI, as described above, debt instruments may be designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition if doing so eliminates, or significantly reduces, an accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
This category includes derivative instruments.
Dividends on listed equity investments are also recognised as other income in the statement of profit or loss when the right of payment has been established.
Derecognition A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is primarily derecognised i. e. removed from the Groups consolidated statement of financial position when: The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: and either a the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if, and to what extent, it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership.
When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement.
In that case, the Group also recognises an associated liability.
The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the Group has retained.
114 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of financial assets The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses ECLs for all debt instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss.
ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest rate.
The expected cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term.
This category also includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by IFRS 9.
Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated at the initial date of recognition, and only if the criteria in IFRS 9 are satisfied.
The Group has not designated any financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and borrowings This is the category most relevant to the Group.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit or loss.
This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost, debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income or financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss.
v Dividend distribution Dividends on the Companys ordinary shares are recognised when they have been appropriately authorised and are no longer at the Companys discretion.
Accordingly, interim dividends are recognised when they are paid and final dividends are recognised when they are declared following approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
w Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at cost.
For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents, as defined above, are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Liquidity funds are classified as cash equivalents if the amount of cash that will be received is known at the time of the initial investment and the risk of changes in value is considered insignificant.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 115 x Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement to enable a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group and facilitate comparison with prior years.
Exceptional items mainly include: impairments or write offs of assets, assets held for sale, property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets: gains or losses arising on the disposal of subsidiaries, investments or property, plant and equipment: any gain or loss resulting from restructuring within the Group: taxes and interests owed by the Group following a change in circumstances surrounding tax disputes, resulting in the exposure being assessed as probable: the impact of infrequent labour action related to work stoppages in mine units: the penalties generated by the early termination of agreements with providers of the Group: the reversal of an accumulation of prior years tax expenses that resulted from an agreement with the government: and the related tax impact of the above items.
y Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives, at each statement of financial position date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: in the principal market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, as described in note 24 and 35 e. For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis at fair value, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
The Group determines the policies and procedures for both recurring fair value measurement and unquoted financial assets, and for non-recurring measurement.
At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be remeasured or re-assessed as per the Groups accounting policies.
For this analysis, the Group verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents.
The Group, in conjunction with its external valuers, where applicable, also compares each the changes in the fair value of each asset and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is reasonable.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
116 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 Segment reporting The Groups activities are principally related to mining operations which involve the exploration, production and sale of gold and silver.
Products are subject to the same risks and returns and are sold through similar distribution channels.
The Group undertakes a number of activities solely to support mining operations including power generation and services.
Transfer prices between segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to that used for third parties.
Segment revenue, segment expense and segment results include transfers between segments at market prices.
Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
For internal reporting purposes, management takes decisions and assesses the performance of the Group through consideration of the following reporting segments: Operating units San Jose, which generates revenue from the sale of gold and silver dore and concentrate.
Operating unit Arcata and Pallancata, which generate revenue from the sale of gold and silver concentrate.
Operating unit Inmaculada, which generates revenue from the sale of gold and silver dore.
Exploration, which explores and evaluates areas of interest in brownfield and greenfield sites with the aim of extending the life-of-mine of existing operations and to assess the feasibility of new mines.
The exploration segment includes costs charged to the profit and loss and capitalised as assets.
Other includes the profit or loss generated by Empresa fide Transmisin Aymaraes S. A. C. a power transmission company that absorbed Empresa fide Transmisin Callalli S. A. C. on 1 June 2016.
The Groups administration, financing, other activities including other income and expense, and income taxes are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment information is consistent with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Management evaluates the financial information based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union.
The Group measures the performance of its operating units by the segment profit or loss that comprises gross profit, selling expenses and exploration expenses.
Segment assets include items that could be allocated directly to the segment.
3 Includes depreciation capitalised in the Crespo project US$810,000, and San Jose unit US$1,783,000.
4 Not reportable assets are comprised of financial assets at fair value through OCI of US$5,296,000, other receivables of US$38,986,000, other financial assets of US$47,000, income tax receivable of US$20,733,000, deferred income tax asset of US$1,504,000 and cash and cash equivalents of US$79,704,000.
3 Includes depreciation capitalised in the Crespo project US$831,000, and San Jose unit US$2,290,000.
4 Not reportable assets are comprised of available-for-sale financial assets of US$6,264,000, other receivables of US$45,344,000, other financial assets of US$2,591,000, income tax receivable of US$21,241,000, deferred income tax asset of US$2,400,000 and cash and cash equivalents of US$256,988,000.
b Geographical information The revenue for the period based on the country in which the customer is located is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 External customer USA 357,096 370,035 Korea 97,943 102,596 Switzerland 89,285 73,186 Peru 70,842 45,274 Germany 32,277 34,777 Canada 28,661 60,991 Japan 26,084 8,502 Bulgaria 2,102 27,211 Total 704,290 722,572 Inter-segment Peru 6,328 5,712 Total 710,618 728,284 118 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 Segment reporting continued In the periods set out below, certain customers accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups total revenues as detailed in the following table: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 US$000 % Revenue Segment US$000 % Revenue Segment Bank of Nova Scotia 162,843 23% Inmaculada 44,758 6% Inmaculada Pallancata Pallancata LS Nikko 97,943 14% and San Jose 102,596 14% and San Jose Inmaculada Inmaculada Republic Metals Corporation 86,974 12% and San Jose 116,274 16% and San Jose Asahi Refining USA 85,136 12% Inmaculada 130,024 18% Inmaculada Argor Heraus 74,210 11% San Jose 48,843 7% San Jose Non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and deferred income tax assets, were allocated to the geographical areas in which the assets are located as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Peru 753,016 782,659 Argentina 172,727 182,139 Mexico 38,834 38,841 Chile 64,199 63,970 Total non-current segment assets 1,028,776 1,067,609 Available-for-sale financial assets 6,264 Financial assets at fair value through OCI 5,296 Trade and other receivables 5,451 7,487 Other financial assets 47 1,333 Deferred income tax assets 1,504 2,400 Total non-current assets 1,041,074 1,085,093 4 Revenue Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Gold from dore bars 277,357 266,214 Silver from dore bars 131,818 144,762 Gold from concentrate 101,492 106,101 Silver from concentrate 193,238 205,080 Other minerals from concentrate 45 Services 340 415 Total 704,290 722,572 Included within revenue is a loss of US$5,646,000 relating to provisional pricing adjustments arising on sales of concentrates and dore, mainly contributed by provisional pricing of $4,515,000 from silver concentrates and $1,080,000 from gold concentrates refer to note 2 p, resulting in total revenue from customers in the amount of US$709,936,000 2017: included within revenue is a gain of US$2,578,000 relating to provisional pricing adjustments representing the change in the fair value of embedded derivatives.
Included within revenue is a transaction price of US$5,485,000 related to the shipping services provided by the Group to the customers arising on sale of concentrates US$3,965,000, Gold: US$1,806,000, Silver: US$2,159,000 and dore US$1,520,000, Gold: US$856,000, Silver: US$664,000 refer to note 2 p. Other sources of revenue are disclosed in note 12.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 119 5 Cost of sales Included in cost of sales are: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 1 Depreciation and amortisation in cost of sale s 164,819 196,150 Personnel expenses note 9 116,065 124,507 Mining royalty note 34 5,857 6,677 Change in products in process and finished goods 2,481 4,131 2 Other items 1,141 3,241 1 The depreciation and amortisation in production cost is US$164,244,000 2017: US$196,241,000.
2 Other items includes costs related to stoppage of US$202,000 and termination benefits of US$939,000 at the San Jose mine unit 2017: Other items included costs related to stoppage at Pallancata and San Jose mine units.
6 Administrative expenses Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Personnel expenses note 9 28,165 34,775 Professional fees 3,614 3,233 Donations 785 586 Lease rentals 1,372 1,474 Travel expenses 1,061 1,020 Communications 430 415 Indirect taxes 1,041 2,173 Depreciation and amortisation 1,486 1,564 Technology and systems 537 686 Security 784 773 Supplies 145 123 1 Other 6,363 4,461 Total 45,783 51,283 1 Predominantly related to third-party services of US$3,434,000 2017: US$1,273,000, technical services of US$144,000 2017: US$553,000, repair and maintenance of US$480,000 2017: US$388,000 and impairment of receivables of US$nil 2017: US$79,000.
120 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 1 Mine site exploration Arcata 9,024 3,029 Ares 699 69 Inmaculada 1,732 1,127 Pallancata 2,162 1,279 San Jose 4,224 3,407 17,841 8,911 2 Prospects Peru 815 336 USA 2,928 Argentina 30 Chile 2,213 267 5,956 633 3 Generative Peru 4,640 1,862 USA 28 398 4,668 2,260 Personnel note 9 5,397 4,646 Others 519 749 Total 34,381 17,199 1 Mine-site exploration is performed with the purpose of identifying potential minerals within an existing mine-site, with the goal of maintaining or extending the mines life.
2 Prospects expenditure relates to detailed geological evaluations in order to determine zones which have mineralisation potential that is economically viable for exploration.
Exploration expenses are generally incurred in the following areas: mapping, sampling, geophysics, identification of local targets and reconnaissance drilling.
3 Generative expenditure is early stage exploration expenditure related to the basic evaluation of the region to identify prospects areas that have the geological conditions necessary to contain mineral deposits.
Related activities include regional and field reconnaissance, satellite images, compilation of public information and identification of exploration targets.
The increase in exploration expenses is mainly explained by the work performed at the Arcata mine unit trying to identify new possible ore targets and the signature of new agreements related to projects in the United States, Chile and Peru.
The Group determines the cash flows which relate to the exploration activities of the companies engaged only in exploration.
Exploration activities incurred by Group operating companies are not included since it is not practicable to separate the liabilities related to the exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
Cash outflows on exploration activities were US$10,498,000 in 2018 2017: US$2,600,000.
8 Selling expenses Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 1 Transportation of dore, concentrate and maritime freight 6,477 Personnel expenses note 9 302 296 Warehouse services 2,032 1,742 2 Taxes 5,148 16 Other 2,586 2,493 Total 10,068 11,024 1 Since 2018, under IFRS 15 the Group reclassified the portion of the selling expenses relating to transport of gold and silver from the Groups production plants to the ports and to the customer, to cost of sales 2018: US$6,102,000.
2 Corresponds to the export duties in Argentina, applicable since September 2018.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 121 9 Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Salaries and wages 110,290 116,597 Other legal contributions 23,268 26,937 Statutory holiday payments 7,282 7,124 Long-Term Incentive Plan 4,487 9,348 Restricted share plan 1,374 2,090 Termination benefits 4,101 2,228 Other 2,764 2,670 Total 153,566 166,994 Personnel expenses are distributed as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales 116,065 124,507 Administrative expenses 28,165 34,775 Exploration expenses 5,398 4,646 Selling expenses 302 296 Other expenses 3,225 1,621 Capitalised as property, plant and equipment 411 1,149 Total 153,566 166,994 Average number of employees for 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 Peru 2,878 2,920 Argentina 1,220 1,175 Chile 3 3 United Kingdom 10 10 Total 4,111 4,108 122 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement to enable a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group and facilitate comparison with prior years.
Unless stated, exceptional items do not correspond to a reporting segment of the Group.
Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Impairment impairment reversal and write-off of non-financial assets, net 3 Impairment of assets 43,009 3 Reversal of impairment of assets 40,256 Total 2,753 Finance costs 1 Expenses related to the repayment of the bond 16,346 Total 16,346 2 and 4 Income tax benefit 4,822 3,279 Total 4,822 3,279 The exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2018 are as follows: 1 Premium and other finance expenses related to the repayment of Compaia Minera Ares CMA bond refer to note 24 a.
2 Deferred tax credit generated by the premium and other finance expenses related to the repayment of the CMA bond.
The exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2017 are as follows: 3 Impairment of the Arcata mine unit of US$43,009,000 and reversals of impairment related to the Pallancata mine unit of US$31,892,000 and San Felipe project of US$8,364,000.
4 Deferred tax credit generated by the impairment of the Arcata mine unit, net by the reversal on impairment of the Pallancata mine unit.
11 Other income and other expenses before exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Before Before exceptional exceptional items items US$000 US$000 Other Income Decrease in provision for mine closure note 25 3 1,428 1 Export credits 1,287 1,613 Lease rentals 97 253 2 Gain on sale of other assets 1,495 Logistic services 4,128 3,552 3 Other 2,550 1,851 Total 8,062 10,192 Other expenses Increase in provision for mine closure note 25 3 52 Provision of obsolescence of supplies 384 542 Contingencies 140 347 Donations 9 754 Write off of value added tax 66 221 4 Corporate social responsibility contribution in Argentina 2,382 3,063 5 Termination benefits Arcata mine unit 1,324 6 Impairment of receivables 5,656 722 7 Other 7,131 5,900 Total 17,144 11,549 1 Corresponds to the benefit of silver refund in Argentina.
2 Corresponds to the gain generated by the sale of mining rights of the Ricky project in 2017.
3 Mainly corresponds to the gain on recovery of expenses of US$930,000 2017: US$462,000, gain on sale of supplies of US$410,000 2017: US$nil and the gain recognised for the Mosquito project of US$400,000 2017: US$400,000.
4 Relates to a contribution in Argentina to the Santa Cruz province, effective since January 2016 and calculated as a proportion of sales.
5 Due to the redundancy of 107 employees in the Arcata mine unit, aligned with the mine plan for 2018.
6 Mainly related to the accrual of a trade receivable from Republic Metals Corp, a customer declared bankrupt under the United States bankruptcy code chapter 11.
7 Mainly corresponds to the expenses due to care and maintenance of Ares mine unit of US$5,688,000 2017: US$4,369,000, concessions of US$320,000 2017: US$491,000 and rentals of US$191,000 2017: US$205,000.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 123 12 Finance income and finance costs before exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Before Before exceptional exceptional items items US$000 US$000 Finance income Interest on deposits and liquidity funds 2,001 1,696 Interest income 2,001 1,696 Gain from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 647 Gain on exchange of available-for-sale financial assets 1,386 1 Gain on discount of other receivables 47 1,946 Other 252 Total 2,048 5,927 Finance costs Interest on secured bank loans note 24 4,923 185 Other interest 726 813 Interest on bond note 24 1,392 24,088 Interest expense 7,041 25,086 Unwind of discount on mine rehabilitation note 25 368 280 1 Loss on discount of other receivables 1,625 2 Loss from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 1,256 Loss on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 32 Other 904 697 Total 11,194 26,095 1 Mainly related to the effect of the discount of tax credits in Argentina and Peru.
2 Related to the fair value adjustments of the warrants of Red Eagle Mining Corporation acquired in 2017.
13 Income tax expense Year ended Year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current corporate income tax from continuing operations Corporate income tax charge 8,338 8,338 15,070 15,070 8,338 8,338 15,070 15,070 Deferred taxation Origination and reversal of temporary differences from continuing operations note 27 20,909 4,822 16,087 2,755 3,279 524 1 Effect of change in income tax rates 10,780 10,780 20,909 4,822 16,087 8,025 3,279 11,304 Corporate income tax 29,247 4,822 24,425 7,045 3,279 3,766 Current mining royalties Mining royalty charge note 34 4,494 4,494 4,201 4,201 Special mining tax charge note 34 2,746 2,746 2,229 2,229 Total current mining royalties 7,240 7,240 6,430 6,430 Total taxation charge credit in the income statement 36,487 4,822 31,665 13,475 3,279 10,196 1 On 29 December 2017, the Argentinian government enacted a tax reform.
The main change is the reduction in the statutory income tax rate, from its current level of 35% to 30% with effect from 1 January 2018 and to 25% with effect from 1 January 2020.
124 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 Income tax expense continued The weighted average statutory income tax rate was 32.2% for 2018 and 31.9% for 2017.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the Group companies in their respective countries as included in the consolidated financial statements.
The change in the weighted average statutory income tax rate is due to a change in the weighting of profit loss before tax in the various jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The tax related to items charged or credited to equity is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Deferred taxation: Total tax credit in the statement of other comprehensive income The total taxation charge on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the consolidated profits of the Group companies as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Profit from continuing operations before income tax 38,366 64,077 At average statutory income tax rate of 32.2% 2017: 31.9% 12,352 20,459 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 593 776 1 Deferred tax recognised on special investment regime 1,399 1,819 2 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax 2,915 1,324 3 Change in statutory income tax rate 10,780 Utilisation of losses not previously recognised 1,618 Special mining tax and mining royalty deductible for corporate income tax 2,136 1,897 Other 1,971 1,012 Corporate income tax at average effective income tax rate of 27.0% 2017: 7.5% before foreign exchange effect 10,354 4,809 4 Special mining tax and mining royalty 7,240 6,430 Corporate income tax and mining royalties at average effective income tax rate of 45.9% 2017: 17.5% 17,594 11,239 5 Foreign exchange rate effect 14,071 1,043 Total taxation charge in the income statement at average effective tax rate 82.5% 2017: 15.9% from continuing operations 31,665 10,196 1 Argentina benefits from a special investment regime that allows for a super double deduction in calculating its taxable profits for all costs relating to prospecting, exploration and metallurgical analysis, pilot plants and other expenses incurred in the preparation of feasibility studies for mining projects.
2 Includes the income tax credit on mine closure provision of US$412,000 2017: US$3,010,000, the tax charge related to the Inmaculada mine unit depreciation of US$1,631,000 2017: US$3,246,000, the effect of not recognised tax losses of US$1,696,000 2017: US$949,000 and the unrecognised deferred tax on San Felipe of US$nil 2017: credit of US$2,509,000.
3 The Argentinian government approved a reduction in the statutory income tax rate, from 35% to 30% with effect from 1 January 2018 and 25% with effect from 1 January 2020.
4 Corresponds to the impact of a mining royalty and special mining tax in Peru note 34.
5 The foreign exchange effect is composed of US$9,311,000 2017: US$2,893,000 from Argentina and US$4,760,000 2017: credit of US$3,936,000 from Peru.
This mainly corresponds to the foreign exchange effect of converting tax bases and monetary items from local currency to the corresponding functional currency.
The main contributor of the foreign exchange effect on the tax charge in 2018 is the devaluation of the Argentinian peso.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 125 14 Basic and diluted earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year.
The Company has dilutive potential ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2018 and 2017, EPS has been calculated as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 Basic earnings loss per share from continuing operations Before exceptional items US$ 0.05 0.08 Exceptional items US$ 0.02 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.03 0.08 Diluted earnings loss per share from continuing operations Before exceptional items US$ 0.05 0.08 Exceptional items US$ 0.02 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.03 0.08 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and attributable to equity holders of the parent is derived as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent continuing operations US$000 12,836 41,561 Exceptional items after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 11,524 526 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 24,360 41,035 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items attributable to equity holders of the parent for the purpose of diluted earnings per share US$000 24,360 41,035 The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: As at 31 December 2018 2017 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue thousands 508,878 507,204 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares related to contingently issuable shares thousands 4,018 7,768 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for the purpose of diluted earnings per share thousands 512,896 514,972 126 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 Property, plant and equipment Mining Construction in properties and Mine progress and development Land and Plant and closure capital 1 costs buildings equipment Vehicles asset advances Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2018 Cost At 1 January 2018 1,259,902 496,924 557,482 6,611 98,537 33,409 2,452,865 3 Additions 83,106 754 18,888 82 19,447 122,277 Change in discount rate 1,126 1,126 Change in mine closure estimate 1,014 1,014 Disposals 156 212 368 Write-offs 176 1,094 392 21 1,683 2 Transfers and other movements 2,508 21,948 15,327 591 37,869 2,505 At 31 December 2018 1,345,516 519,450 590,447 6,680 96,397 14,966 2,573,456 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2018 899,381 266,069 318,817 4,745 67,155 1,032 1,557,199 Depreciation for the year 100,185 32,095 31,983 476 3,848 168,587 Disposals 141 191 332 Write-offs 141 808 350 1,299 Impairment reversal of impairment, net 2 Transfers and other movements 129 1 57 27 85 129 At 31 December 2018 999,695 298,024 349,908 4,707 71,003 947 1,724,284 Net book amount at 31 December 2018 345,821 221,426 240,539 1,973 25,394 14,019 849,172 1 Within mining properties and development costs there is a balance at 31 December 2018 related to Crespo project US$26,855,000 that is not currently being depreciated.
2 Transfers and other movements include US$2,379,000 that was transferred from evaluation and exploration assets note 16.
3 Includes borrowing costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment amounting to US$239,000.
The capitalisation rate used was 2.88%.
In 2018, management determined there were triggers of impairment in the San Jose mine unit due to the devaluation of the US$, inflation and the new export tax approved in Argentina since September 2018.
Impairment test result did not show a difference versus the carrying value given that the level of devaluation offset inflation and the new export tax.
Therefore, no impairment was recognised.
In addition, during 2018, management evaluated the carrying value of the San Felipe Project, not recognising any impairment in the period refer to note 16.
No indicators of impairment or reversal of impairment were identified in the other CGUs, which includes other exploration projects.
In 2017, management determined there were triggers of impairment in the Arcata mine unit due to difficulties in replacing production with incremental resources and to convert resources into reserves, and there was a significant decrease in production during the year.
An impairment test was carried out resulting in an impairment charge of US$43,009,000 US$39,905,000 in property, plant and equipment and US$3,104,000 and evaluation and exploration assets.
Also in 2017, in the case of the Pallancata mine unit, there was an increase in terms of tonnage, grades, and resources and reserves due to the Pablo vein.
An impairment test was carried out resulting in an impairment reversal of US$31,892,000 US$31,509,000 in property, plant and equipment and US$383,000 and evaluation and exploration assets.
Finally, in 2017 management evaluated the carrying value of the San Felipe Project, recognising an impairment reversal of US$8,364,000 all in evaluation and exploration assets refer to notes 10 and 16.
The recoverable values of the San Jose, Arcata and Pallancata CGUs were determined using a fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD methodology.
FVLCD was determined using a combination of level 2 and level 3 inputs, which result in fair value measurements categorised in its entirety as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, to construct a discounted cash flow model to estimate the amount that would be paid by a willing third party in an arms length transaction.
In assessing the recoverable value of the San Felipe CGU, given the early stage of the project, the Group applied a value in-situ methodology which applies a realisable enterprise value to unprocessed mineral resources.
The enterprise value used is based on observable external market information.
Together with the US$31,396,000 2017: US$29,396,000 recognised as a deferred income refer to note 22 that will be realised once the option is exercised or terminated: the total recoverable value of the project under a VIU approach amounts to US$37,081,000 2017: US$37,081,000.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 127 The key assumptions on which management has based its determination of FVLCD and the associated recoverable values calculated are gold and silver prices, production costs, reserves and resources, the discount rate and the value per in-situ regarding the San Felipe project.
Gold and silver prices used, discount rate applied and value per in-situ per zinc equivalent tonne are presented below.
2018 2019 2020 Long-term Gold 1,273 1,300 1,300 1,300 Gold 1,298 1,300 1,303 1,300 Silver 16.0 17.5 18.0 18.0 Silver 18 18 19 19 1 San Jose San Felipe Arcata Pallancata San Felipe Discount rate post tax 9.5% n a Discount rate post tax 4.3% 5.4% n a Value per in-situ per zinc equivalent Value per in-situ per zinc tonne US$ n a 22.12 equivalent tonne US$ n a n a 29.53 1.
The Pallancata CGU was assessed for impairment reversal at 30 June 2017 and The period of 6 years was used to make the cash flow therefore the above reflects the relevant assumption at that date.
projections of San Jose mine unit and it is not shorter than the life of mine.
Current carrying value of CGU, Current carrying value of CGU, net of deferred tax US$000 San Jose San Felipe net of deferred tax US$000 Arcata Pallancata San Felipe 31 December 2018 138,877 37,081 31 December 2017 5,859 91,065 37,081 Sensitivity analysis Other than as disclosed below, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions above would cause the carrying value of any of its cash generating units to exceed its recoverable amount.
The estimated recoverable amounts of the following of the Groups CGUs are equal to, or not materially greater than, their carrying values.
A change in any of the key assumptions would have the following impact in the San Jose mine unit: US$000 Prices decrease by 10% 85,590 Post tax discount rate increase by 3% 9,937 Production costs increase by 10% 56,551 Inflation increase by 10% 19,425 Devaluation of Argentinian peso increase by 10% 20,765 With respect to the impairment assessment performed at the San Felipe CGU, a decrease of 10% in the value in-situ per tonne would result in a reversal of impairment of US$504,000, whilst an increase of 10% would result in a reversal of previously recognised impairment of US$647,000.
2 Transfers and other movements include US$1,607,000 that was transferred from evaluation and exploration assets note 16.
3 Includes borrowing costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment amounting to US$601,000, the capitalisation rate used was 8.27%.
1 At 31 December 2017, the Group has recorded an impairment charge with respect to evaluation and exploration assets of the Arcata mine unit of US$3,104,000, and reversals of impairment with respect to the Pallancata mine unit of US$383,000 and the San Felipe project of US$8,364,000.
The calculation of the recoverable values is detailed in note 15.
At 31 December 2018 the remaining amortisation period is approximately 7 years 2017: 8 years.
2 Corresponds to the acquisition of water permits of Andina Minerals Group Andina.
These permits have an indefinite life according to Chilean law.
To determine the fair value less costs of disposal of the Volcan cash-generating unit, which includes the water permits held by the Group, the Group used the value-in-situ methodology.
This methodology applies a realisable enterprise value to unprocessed mineral resources which was US$6.70 per gold equivalent ounce of resources at 31 December 2018 2017: US$7.10.
The risk adjusted enterprise value figure has been determined using a combination of level 2 and level 3 inputs, which result in a fair value measurement categorised in its entirety as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, to estimate the amount that would be paid by a willing third party in an arms length transaction, taking into account the water restrictions imposed by the Chilean government.
3 Legal rights correspond to expenditures required to give the Group the right to use a property for the surface exploration work, development and production.
At 31 December 2018 the remaining amortisation period is from 5 to 20 years 2017: 10 to 20 years.
4 The amortisation for the period is included in cost of sales and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The carrying amount of the Volcan CGU, which includes the water permits, is reviewed annually to determine whether it is in excess of its recoverable amount.
No impairments were recognised in 2018 and 2017.
Key assumptions US$ 2018 2017 Risk adjusted value per in-situ gold equivalent ounce 6.70 7.10 US$000 2018 2017 Current carrying value Volcan CGU 64,198 63,968 Sensitivity analysis Other than as disclosed below, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions above would cause the carrying value exceed its recoverable amount.
The estimated recoverable amount is not materially greater than its carrying value.
A change in the value-in-situ assumption could cause an impairment loss or reversal of impairment to be recognised as follows: Approximate impairment reversal of impairment resulting from the following changes US$000 2018 2017 Value per in-situ ounce 10% decrease 6,407 2,667 Risk factor increase by 5% 1,725 1,095 Risk factor decrease by 5% 1,725 9,384 130 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 Financial assets at fair value through OCI Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Beginning balance 6,264 1 Acquisitions 6,433 Fair value change recorded in equity 6,450 2 Disposals 951 Ending balance 5,296 1 Corresponds to the purchase of 591,326,947 shares of REE UNO SpA REE UNO US$2,000,000, 7,519,331 shares of Skeena Resources Limited Skeena US$4,313,000 and 15,600 shares of Cobalt Power Group Cobalt US$120,000.
2 As the investments were not considered to be strategic, the Group sold 14,545,454 shares of Red Eagle with a fair value at the date of sale of US$799,000 and 3,383,000 shares of Santa Cruz Silver Mining with a fair value at the date of sale of US$155,000, generating a loss on disposal of US$2,514,000 and US$546,000 respectively.
The Group made the election at initial recognition to measure the equity investments at fair value through OCI as they are not held for trading.
The fair value at 31 December 2018 is as follows: US$000 Listed equity investments: Cobalt Power Group 53 Santa Cruz Silver Mining 435 Revelo Resources Corp. 4 Skeena Resources Limited 1,599 Empire Petroleum Corp. 19 Total listed equity investments 2,110 Non-listed equity investments: Pembrook Mining Corp. ECI Exploration and Mining Inc. Goldspot Discoveries Inc. 1,240 REE UNO SpA 1,946 Total non-listed equity investments 3,186 Total 5,296 Fair value of the listed shares is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market and they are categorised as level 1.
The fair value of non-listed equity investments is determined based on financial information available of the companies and they are categorised as level 3.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 131 19 Trade and other receivables As at 31 December 2018 2017 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Trade receivables note 35 c 45,201 43,209 Advances to suppliers 2,950 4,482 1 Duties recoverable from exports of Minera Santa Cruz 1,546 1,788 1,570 2,681 Receivables from related parties note 29 a 76 160 Loans to employees 744 206 877 353 Interest receivable 66 402 Receivable from Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank 195 208 2 Other 723 12,591 1,810 9,397 3 Provision for impairment 5,997 4,594 Assets classified as receivables 3,013 57,076 4,257 56,298 Prepaid expenses 8 2,028 91 3,720 4 Value Added Tax VAT 2,430 19,632 3,139 21,048 Total 5,451 78,736 7,487 81,066 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate their book value.
1 Relates to export benefits through the Patagonian Port and silver refunds in Minera Santa Cruz, discounted over 24 months 2017: 19 months at a rate of 9.98% 2017: 5.40% for dollars denominated amounts and 57.00% 2017: 29.60% for Argentinian pesos.
The loss on the unwinding of the discount is recognised within finance costs 2017: gain on discount is recognised within finance income.
2 Mainly corresponds to account receivables from contractors for the sale of supplies of US$6,111,000 2017: US$4,773,000, and other tax claims of US3,227,000 2017: US$3,903,000.
3 Includes the provision for impairment of trade receivable from customers in Peru of US$1,554,000 2017: US$1,080,000, the impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander of US$195,000 2017: US$208,000, the impairment of the account receivable from a third party of US$3,233,000 2017: US$2,501,000 and other receivables of US$1,015,000 2017: US$805,000.
4 Primarily relates to US$11,462,000 2017: US$12,829,000 of VAT receivable related to the San Jose project that will be recovered through future sales of gold and silver and also through the sale of these credits to third-parties by Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
It also includes the VAT of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. of US$6,248,000 2017: US$6,519,000 and Empresa fide Transmisin Aymaraes S. A. C. of US$3,569,000 2017: US$4,034,000.
The VAT is valued at its recoverable amount.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables: Individually impaired US$000 At 1 January 2017 6,342 Provided for during the year 1,065 1 Released during the year 2,813 At 31 December 2017 4,594 Provided for during the year 5,884 1 Released during the year 4,481 At 31 December 2018 5,997 1 Corresponds to the reversal of the provision of US$2,000 2017: US$9,000 and write off of US$4,479,000 2017: US$2,804,000.
As at 31 December 2018 and 2017, none of the financial assets classified as receivables net of impairment were past due.
132 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20 Inventories As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Finished goods valued at cost 1,543 3,011 Products in process valued at cost 16,085 17,099 Products in process accrual 8,030 Raw materials Supplies and spare parts 37,765 41,572 63,423 61,682 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 5,388 5,004 Total 58,035 56,678 Finished goods include ounces of gold and silver, dore and concentrate.
Products in process include stockpile and precipitates.
The Group either sells dore bars as a finished product or if it is commercially advantageous to do so, delivers the bars for refining into gold and silver ounces which are then sold.
In the latter scenario, the dore bars are classified as products in process.
At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the Group had no dore on hand included in products in process.
Concentrate is sold to smelters, but in addition could be used as a product in process to produce dore.
As part of the Groups short-term financing policies, it acquires pre-shipment loans which are guaranteed by the sales contracts.
The amount of expense recognised in profit and loss related to the consumption of inventory of supplies, spare parts and raw materials is US$111,485,000 2017: US$104,689,000.
Movements in the provision for obsolescence comprise an increase in the provision of US$384,000 2017: US$542,000 and the reversal of US$nil relating to the sale of supplies and spare parts, that had been provided for 2017: US$2,997,000.
21 Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank 366 335 1 Liquidity funds 2,869 2 Current demand deposit accounts 43,095 61,612 3 Time deposits 36,243 192,172 Cash and cash equivalents considered for the statement of cash flows 79,704 256,988 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their book value.
The Group does not have undrawn borrowing facilities available in the future for operating activities or capital commitments.
1 The liquidity funds are mainly invested in certificates of deposit, commercial papers and floating rate notes with a weighted average maturity of nil days as at 31 December 2018 2017: average of 29 days.
2 Relates to bank accounts which are freely available and bear interest.
3 These deposits have an average maturity of 14 days 2017: Average of 32 days refer to note 35 c. Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 133 22 Deferred income As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 1 San Felipe contract 31,396 29,396 2 El Mosquito contract 970 1,413 32,366 30,809 Current balance 400 400 Non-current 31,966 30,409 1 On 3 August 2011, the Group entered into an agreement with Impulsora Minera Santa Cruz IMSC whereby IMSC acquired the right to explore the San Felipe properties and an option to purchase the related concessions.
Under the terms of this agreement the Group has received US$31,396,000 as non-refundable payments at 31 December 2018 2017: US$29,396,000.
These payments will reduce the total consideration that IMSC will be required to pay upon exercise of the option and constitute an advance of the final purchase price, rather than an option premium and, as such, they were recorded as deferred income.
On 30 November 2016, IMSC renegotiated the terms of the agreement, extending the validity of the agreement to 1 December 2017.
As a result of this extension, on 9 March 2017 the Group received in payment 13,415,000 ordinary shares of Santa Cruz Silver Mining SCSM quoted in the Toronto Stock Exchange, at the unit price of CAD 0.28 amounting to CAD 3,756,000 equivalent to US$2,780,000.
The amount received included valued added taxes of US$384,000 and part consideration of US$2,396,000 recognised as deferred income.
On 28 February 2017, the Group signed a new option agreement with IMSC for the San Felipe properties for a total consideration of US$10,000,000.
An initial payment of US$2,000,000 was received in cash on 7 March 2017.
In March 2017, IMSC entered into an agreement with Americas Silver Corporation ASC to assign 100% of its interest in the San Felipe Project.
On 15 December 2018, the option to sell the San Felipe property to ASC was extended to 31 December 2020.
2 On 25 April 2017 the Group signed a five-year option agreement with Minas Argentinas S. A. MASA giving MASA the right to explore and the option to purchase the Mosquito property, located in Argentina.
The Group has received in cash US$2,000,000, recognising US$970,000 as deferred income at 31 December 2018.
23 Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2018 2017 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Trade payables 69,568 63,038 2 Salaries and wages payable 36,272 36,143 Dividends payable 2,247 107 Taxes and contributions 14 6,314 32 6,425 Guarantee deposits 7,922 6,946 Mining royalties note 34 506 684 Accounts payable to related parties note 29 a 7 149 Other 773 2,639 1,049 3,287 Total 787 125,475 1,081 116,779 The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
1 Trade payables relate mainly to the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractors services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
2 Salaries and wages payable relates to remuneration payable.
There were Board members remuneration payable of US$nil 2017: US$nil and long-term incentive plan awards payable of US$8,215,000 2017: US$7,520,000 at 31 December 2018.
134 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 Borrowings As at 31 December 2018 2017 NonNonEffective current Current Effective current Current interest rate US$000 US$000 interest rate US$000 US$000 Bond payable a 8.56% 291,955 8,779 Secured bank loans b Pre-shipment loans in Minera Santa Cruz note 20 4.0% to 5.0% 6,047 1.80% to 2.85% 9,043 Bank loans 2.43% to 3.00% 50,000 101,020 1.75% 50,041 Total 50,000 107,067 291,955 67,863 a Bond payable Relates to the issuance of US$350,000,000 7.75% Senior Unsecured Notes on 23 January 2014, fully repaid on 23 January 2018.
The Group repaid the capital of US$294,775,000, plus interests of US$11,423,000, premium of US$11,423,000 and their corresponding withholding tax of US$946,000.
The charge in profit and loss during the period is US$17,833,000, of which US$1,487,000 corresponds to the interests and its corresponding withholding tax generated in the period, and the balance of US$16,346,000, recognised as an exceptional item, includes the premium of US$11,423,000, its corresponding withholding tax of US$473,000 and the recognition of the capitalised expenses related to obtaining the bond of US$4,450,000 refer to note 10. b Secured bank loans Short-term bank loans Two credit agreements signed by Compaa Minera Ares S. A.
C with BBVA Continental with an interest rate of 2.70% and Scotiabank with an interest rate of 3.00%.
The carrying value including accrued interest payable at 31 December 2018 is US$50,581,000 and US$50,111,000 respectively.
2017: One credit agreement signed by Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. with BBVA Continental with an interest rate of 1.75%, the carrying value including accrued interest payable at 31 December 2017 was US$50,041,000 and was repaid on the due date of 10 December 2018.
Medium-term bank loans Two credit agreements signed by Compaa Minera Ares S. A.
C with Nova Scotia Bank with an interest rate of 2.43% and Citibank with an interest rate of 2.43%.
The carrying value including accrued interest payable at 31 December 2018 is US$25,164,000 and US$25,164,000 respectively.
The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Between 1 and 2 years 50,000 Between 2 and 5 years 291,955 Over 5 years Total 50,000 291,955 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 135 The carrying amount of current borrowings differs from their fair value only with respect to differences arising under the effective interest rate calculations described above.
The carrying amount and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows: Carrying amount Fair value as at 31 December as at 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Secured bank loans 50,000 47,353 Bond payable 291,955 306,566 Total 50,000 291,955 47,353 306,566 In the case of the bond payable, the fair value was determined with reference to the quoted price of these bonds in an active market, and is a Level 1 input.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a real pre-tax annual discount rate, based on a US Treasury bond of an appropriate tenure adjusted for the impact of quantitative easing as at 31 December 2018 and 2017 respectively, and the cash flows have been adjusted to reflect the risk attached to these cash flows.
Uncertainties on the timing for use of this provision include changes in the future that could impact the time of closing the mines, as new resources and reserves are discovered.
Expected cash flows will be over a period from one to 19 years.
2 Corresponds to the provision related to awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP to designated personnel of the Group.
Includes the following benefits: i 2018 awards, granted in May 2018, payable in May 2021, as 50% in cash refer to note 26 c iv, ii 2017 awards, granted in March 2017, payable in full on vesting in March 2020.
Only employees who remain in the Groups employment on the vesting date will be entitled to vested awards, subject to exceptions approved by the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
There are two parts to the performance conditions attached to LTIP awards: 70% is subject to the Companys TSR ranking relative to a tailored peer group of mining companies, and 30% is subject to the Companys TSR ranking relative to the constituents of the FTSE 350 mining index.
The liability for the LTIP paid in cash is measured, initially and at the end of each reporting period until settled, at the fair value of the awards, by applying the Monte Carlo pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions on which the awards were granted, and the extent to which the employees have rendered services to date.
Changes to the provision of US$3,386,000 2017: US$8,702,000 have been recorded as administrative expenses US$3,203,000 2017: US$8,215,000 and exploration expenses US$183,000 2017: US$487,000.
The following tables list the inputs to the Monte Carlo model used for the LTIPs as at 31 December 2018 and 2017, respectively: LTIP 2016 LTIP 2017 LTIP 2018 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 For the period ended US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Dividend yield % 0.81 1.80 0.81 1.80 Expected volatility % 4.02 2.41 4.02 3.51 Riskfree interest rate % 0.25 0.71 0.25 0.71 Expected life years 1 1 2 2 Weighted average share price pence 63.07 240.88 239.22 235.08 The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the awards and is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
3 Based on the 2018 2017 internal and external review of mine rehabilitation estimates, the provision for mine closure decreased increased by: Adjustment Arcata Ares Sipan Selene Azuca Crespo Inmaculada Pallancata San Jose Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 31 December 2018 1,745 68 11 1,131 330 117 903 324 479 At 31 December 2017 1,131 22 607 7 43 1,191 1,385 54 856 4 An expense of US$52,000 related to changes in estimate and discount rates for mines already closed.
2017: an income of US$1,428,000 related to changes in estimate and discount rates for mines already closed and the Arcata mine unit which reduction of the estimated costs exceeded the carrying value of the mine asset, therefore the effect has been recognised directly in the income statement.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 137 26 Equity a Share capital and share premium Issued share capital The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2018 is as follows: Issued Class of shares Number Amount Ordinary shares 510,553,920 127,638,480 The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2017 is as follows: Issued Class of shares Number Amount Ordinary shares 507,232,310 126,808,078 At 31 December 2018 and 2017, all issued shares with a par value of 25 pence each were fully paid 2018: weighted average of US$0.441 per share, 2017: weighted average of US$0.442 per share.
Rights attached to ordinary shares: At general meetings of the Company, on a show of hands and on a poll, every member who is present in person or subject to the below, by proxy, has one vote for every share of which they are the holder proxy.
However, in the case of a vote on a show of hands where a proxy has been appointed by more than one member, the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
On 2 January 2018 the Group issued 1,660,805 ordinary shares and on 31 December 2018 the Group issued 1,660,805 ordinary shares, under the Restricted Share Plan, to certain employees of the Group.
The changes in share capital are as follows: Share Share Number of capital premium shares US$000 US$000 Shares issued as at 1 January 2017 507,232,310 224,315 438,041 Shares issued according the Restricted Share Plan benefit on 2 January 2018 at GBP 0.25 1,660,805 564 Shares issued according the Restricted Share Plan benefit on 31 December 2018 at GBP 0.25 1,660,805 530 Shares issued as at 31 December 2018 510,553,920 225,409 438,041 b Treasury shares Treasury shares represent the cost of Hochschild Mining plc shares purchased in the market and held by the trustee of the Hochschild Mining Employee Share Trust to satisfy the award of conditional shares under the Groups Enhanced Long-Term Incentive Plan granted to the CEO note 2 n. During 2011, the Group purchased 126,769 shares for the purposes of the plan, for a total consideration of 561,478 equivalent to US$898,000.
No shares were purchased by the Group during 2017.
On 5 April 2018, the Group purchased 205,400 shares for a total consideration of 414,000 equivalent to US$579,000.
On 20 March 2017, 40,383 Treasury shares with a value of US$286,000 being the cost incurred to acquire the shares were transferred to the CEO of the Group with respect to the Deferred Bonus Plan benefit.
On 20 March 2018, 40,383 Treasury shares with a value of US$84,000 being the cost incurred to acquire the shares were transferred to the CEO of the Group with respect to the Deferred Bonus Plan benefit.
On 5 April 2018, 232,172 Treasury shares with a value of US$635,000 being the cost incurred to acquire the shares were transferred to the CEO of the Group with respect to the Enhanced Long-Term Incentive Plan.
At 31 December 2018 the balance of Treasury shares is 42 31 December 2017: 67,197 ordinary shares with a value of US$115 31 December 2017: US$140,000.
c Other reserves Unrealised gain loss on available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through OCI Under IAS 39, the Group classified its investments in listed companies as available-for-sale financial assets which are carried at fair value.
Consequently, the increase decrease in carrying values, net of the related deferred tax liability, is taken directly to this account where it will remain until disposal or impairment of the investment, when the cumulative unrealised gains and losses are recycled through the income statement.
According IFRS 9, the Group made the decision to classify its investments in listed and unlisted companies as financial assets at fair value through OCI.
The increase decrease in carrying values, net of the related deferred tax liability, is taken directly to this account where it will remain until disposal, when the cumulative unrealised gains and losses are recycled through retained earnings.
Cumulative translation adjustment The cumulative translation adjustment account is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries and associates with a functional currency different to the reporting currency of the Group.
138 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 Equity continued Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets of the Cayman Holding Companies Ardsley, Garrison, Larchmont and Hochschild Mining Peru acquired under the Share Exchange Agreement and the nominal value of the shares issued in consideration of such acquisition.
Share-based payment reserve Share-based payment reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payment transactions provided to employees, as a part of their remuneration.
Restricted Share Plan RSP At the beginning of 2015, the Group introduced the RSP, which is a new one-off share-based long-term incentive plan for some executives and key employees who play a fundamental role in the performance of the business.
Under the RSP of the Group, on 30 December 2014 and 16 February 2015, 1,319,392 and 6,026,089 share options with a fair value of 86.8p US$1.35 and 92.3p US$1.42 per share were granted to the CEO and certain key employees.
Following the rights issue in October 2015, the number of share options were adjusted to 1,491,572 and 6,812,485 with a fair value of 76.7p US$1.19 and 81.6p US$1.25 per share, respectively.
The vesting of the options is subject to the satisfaction of certain performance as well as service conditions classified as non-market conditions.
The options vest over a five-year period in tranches of 20% of the shares after each of two, three and four years and the balance after five years.
If the service conditions are not met, the options lapse.
As the performance conditions are non-market-based they are not reflected in the fair value of the award at grant date, and therefore the Company will assess the likelihood of these conditions being met with a relevant adjustment to the cumulative charge as required at each financial year end.
The fair value of the option was determined with respect to the market price of the shares on the grant date.
The awards do not entitle the recipients to dividends or payment in lieu of dividends during the vesting period.
The RSP does not have an exercise price.
On 30 December 2016 the Group issued 1,660,805 ordinary shares under the Restricted Share Plan, to certain employees of the Group, including the CEO.
On 2 January 2018 the Group issued 1,660,805 ordinary shares and on 31 December 2018 the Group issued 1,660,805 ordinary shares, under the Restricted Share Plan, to certain employees of the Group, including the CEO.
The carrying amount of the share-based payment reserve relating to the RSP at 31 December 2018 is US$3,289,000 2017: US$6,048,000 with the amount recognised in the consolidated income statement of US$1,374,000 2017: US$2,090,000.
On 30 December 2017 20% of the options vested, resulting in 1,660,805 ordinary shares that were issued on 2 January 2018.
On 30 December 2018 20% of the options vested, resulting in 1,660,805 ordinary shares that were issued on 31 December 2018.
The balance of shares pending to vest at 31 December 2018 is 3,321,642 2017: 4,982,447 ordinary shares.
The remaining contract life is one year.
The movement in other reserves during 2018 is as follows: US$000 Balance at 1 January 2018 6,047 Vesting at 30 December 2017, shares issued on 2 January 2018 at GBP 0.25 refer to a 2,066 Vesting at 30 December 2018, shares issued on 31 December 2018 at GBP 0.25 refer to a 2,066 Provision of the period 1,374 Balance at 31 December 2018 3,289 The movement of the shares according the date of vesting is as follows: Number of shares Balance of shares pending to vest at 1 January 2018 4,982,447 Shares vested on 30 December 2018 1,660,805 Balance of shares pending to vest at 31 December 2018 3,321,642 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 139 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP At the beginning of 2014, the Group introduced the DBP, as a mechanism to pay the annual bonuses to the employees.
Before the approval of DBP the annual bonuses were paid entirely in cash.
Under the DBP rules a part of the annual bonuses could be deferred into shares for one or two years.
A Deferred Bonus award granted under the Plan, and the terms of that Deferred Bonus award, must be approved in advance by the Directors.
The fair value of the awards was determined with respect to the market price of the shares on the grant date.
The carrying amount of the share-based payment reserve relating to the DBP at 31 December 2018 is US$nil 2017: US$43,000 with the amount recognised in the consolidated income statement of US$4,000 2017: US$34,000.
On 20 March 2017 and 20 March 2018, 40,383 and 40,383 Treasury shares were transferred respectively to the CEO of the Group with respect to the DBP.
The movement in other reserves during 2018 is as follows: US$000 Balance at 1 January 2018 44 Provision of the period 4 Vesting on 20 March 2018, paid with treasury shares with a value of US$2.07 totalling US$84,000 refer to b 48 Balance at 31 December 2018 The movement of the shares according the date of vesting is as follows: Number of shares Balance of shares pending to vest at 1 January 2018 40,383 Shares vested on 20 March 2018 40,383 Balance of shares pending to vest at 31 December 2018 Enhanced Long-term Incentive Plan ELTIP In April 2011 and March 2014, the CEO was granted awards under the ELTIP 397,645 and 1,076,122 shares respectively.
Awards were made over conditional shares with a value, on the date of grant, equivalent to six times salary and which vest in tranches over an extended performance period of four, five and six years.
Further details on the design of the ELTIP award and numbers of awards granted are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The fair value of the option was determined using the Monte Carlo model.
The carrying amount of the share-based payment reserve relating to the ELTIP at 31 December 2018 is US$1,359,000 2017: US$1,543,000.
The amount recognised in the consolidated income statement amounts to US$311,000 2017: US$449,000.
In 2017 US$760,000 relating to options that lapsed during the year 204,731 ordinary shares lapsed in 2017 were transferred from the share-based payment reserve to retain earnings.
As at 31 December 2017, 1,076,122 ordinary shares were pending to vest.
The vesting percentage of the 25% of the award resulted in 86.3% and on 5 April 2018 the CEO received 232,172 Treasury shares, and US$140,000 was transferred from the share-based payment reserve to retain earnings.
As at 31 December 2018, 807,091 ordinary shares are pending to vest 31 December 2017: 1,076,122 ordinary shares.
The remaining contract life is 1.2 years.
The movement in other reserves during 2018 is as follows: US$000 Balance at 1 January 2018 1,543 Provision of the period 311 Vesting at 20 March 2018, treasury shares received by the CEO on 5 April 2018 with a value of US$2.73 totalling US$635,000 refer to b 495 Balance at 31 December 2018 1,359 The movement of the shares according the date of vesting is as follows: Number of shares Balance of shares pending to vest at 1 January 2018 1,076,122 Shares lapsed on 20 March 2018 25% of the award 36,859 Shares vested on 20 March 2018 232,172 Balance of shares pending to vest at 31 December 2018 807,091 140 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 Equity continued Long-Term Incentive Plan 2018 LTIP 2018 On 25 May 2018 the Group approved the 2018 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The award gives a right to receive a cash payment equivalent to 50% of the prize cash-settled transaction refer to note 25 2, and the other 50% will be used to acquire shares equity-settled transaction.
Further details on the design of the ELTIP award are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The remaining contract life is 2.4 years.
The movement in other reserves during 2018 is as follows: US$000 Balance at 1 January 2018 Provision of the period 212 Balance at 31 December 2018 212 No shares were vested during the period.
27 Deferred income tax The changes in the net deferred income tax assets liabilities are as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Beginning of the year 53,640 64,944 Income statement charge credit note 13 16,087 11,304 End of the year 69,727 53,640 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
The amounts after offset, as presented on the face of the Statement of financial position, are as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets 1,504 2,400 Deferred income tax liabilities 71,231 56,040 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 141 Tax losses expire in the following years: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Unrecognised Expire in one year 465 3,517 Expire in two years 493 Expire in three years 4,511 42 Expire in four years 2,861 4,320 Expire after four years 121,583 119,461 129,420 127,833 Other unrecognised deferred income tax assets comprise gross amounts : As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 1 Provision for mine closure 6,596 7,287 2 Impairments of assets 2,509 1 This relates to provision for mine closure expenditure which is expected to be incurred in periods in which taxable profits are not expected against which the expenditure can be offset.
2 Related to the impairment of San Felipe project note 16.
Unrecognised deferred tax liability on retained earnings At 31 December 2018 and 2017, there was no recognised deferred tax liability for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries as the intention is that these amounts are permanently reinvested.
28 Dividends 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Dividends paid and proposed during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2017: 1.965 US cents per share 2016: 1.38 US cents per share 9,999 6,997 Interim dividend for 2018: 1.965 US cents per share 2017: 1.38 US cents per share 10,000 6,999 Total dividends paid on ordinary shares 19,999 13,996 Proposed dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2018: 1.959 US cents per share 2017: 1.965 US cents per share 10,000 9,967 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests: 0.08 US$ per share 2017: 1.80 US$ per share 13,039 12,585 Total dividends paid to non-controlling interests 13,039 12,585 Dividends per share The interim dividend paid in September 2018 was US$10,000,000 1.965 US cents per share.
A proposed dividend in respect of the year ending 31 December 2018 of 1.959 US cents per share, amounting to a total dividend of US$10,000,000, is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 June 2019 and is not recognised as a liability as at 31 December 2018.
142 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 Related-party balances and transactions a Related-party accounts receivable and payable The Group had the following related-party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017.
The related parties are companies owned or controlled by the main shareholder of the parent company or associates.
Accounts receivable Accounts payable as at 31 December as at 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current related party balances 1 Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
76 160 7 149 Total 76 160 7 149 1 The account receivable relates to reimbursement of expenses paid by the Group on behalf of Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
The account payable relates to the payment of rentals.
As at 31 December 2018 and 2017, all accounts are, or were, non-interest bearing.
No security has been granted or guarantees given by the Group in respect of these related-party balances.
Principal transactions between affiliates are as follows: Year ended 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Expenses Expense recognised for the rental paid to Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
200 200 Transactions between the Group and these companies are on an arms length basis.
b Compensation of key management personnel of the Group As at 31 December 2018 2017 Compensation of key management personnel including Directors US$000 US$000 Short-term employee benefits 6,619 6,086 Long-Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan and Restricted Share Plan 2,899 5,446 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 9,518 11,532 This amount includes the remuneration paid to the Directors of the Parent Company of the Group of US$4,601,000 2017: US$5,439,000.
30 Auditors remuneration The auditors remuneration for services provided to the Group during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 is as follows: Amounts paid to Ernst & Young in the year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 1 Audit fees pursuant to legislation 597 597 Audit-related assurance services 53 53 Taxation compliance services 9 14 Taxation advisory services 29 2 Other non-audit services 18 Total 659 711 1 The total audit fee in respect of local statutory audits of subsidiaries is US$340,000 2017: US$350,000.
2 Related to the benchmark on derivatives and IFRS 15 and 9 implementation.
In 2018 and 2017, all fees are included in administrative expenses.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 143 31 Notes to the statement of cash flows As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Reconciliation of loss for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 6,701 53,881 Adjustments to reconcile Group loss to net cash inflows from operating activities Depreciation note 3 a 163,639 195,954 Amortisation of intangibles note 17 2,091 1,851 Write-off of assets 384 405 Provision of doubtful receivable 5,656 Impairment of assets note 10 2,753 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets, net 1,354 Loss gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 61 145 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 384 542 Increase decrease of provision for mine closure 52 1,428 Finance income 2,048 4,541 Finance costs 28,796 26,063 Income tax expense 31,666 10,196 Other 9,045 5,464 Increase decrease of cash flows from operations due to changes in assets and liabilities Trade and other receivables 16,242 22,109 Income tax receivable Other financial assets and liabilities 3,671 Inventories 1,741 165 Trade and other payables 648 22,670 Provisions 6,303 1,143 Cash generated from operations 222,667 287,799 32 Commitments a Mining rights purchase options During the ordinary course of business, the Group enters into agreements to carry out exploration under concessions held by third parties.
Generally, under the terms of these agreements, the Group has the option to acquire the concession or invest in the entity holding the concession.
In order to exercise these options the Group must satisfy certain financial and other obligations during the term of the agreement.
The options lapse in the event that the Group does not meet its financial obligations.
At any point in time, the Group may cancel the agreements without penalty, except where specified below.
These agreements are not under noncancellable irrevocable clauses.
The Group continually reviews its requirements under the agreements and determines, on an annual basis, whether to proceed with its financial commitment.
Based on managements current intention regarding these projects, the commitments at the statement of financial position date are as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Commitment for the subsequent 12 months 1,100 3,300 More than one year 46,369 41,200 144 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32 Commitments continued b Operating lease commitments The Group has a number of operating lease agreements, as a lessee.
As at 31 December 2018 and 2017, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under the operating lease agreements are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 1,746 2,462 Later than one year and not later than five years 702 764 c Capital commitments For the year ended 31 December 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Peru 33,625 15,925 Argentina 2,564 5,739 36,189 21,664 33 Contingencies As at 31 December 2018 the Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
No provision has been made in the financial statements and none of these claims are currently expected to result in any material loss to the Group.
a Taxation Fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities for four years in Peru and five years in Argentina and Mexico, preceding the year of review.
During this time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, coupled with the complexity of the Group and the transactions undertaken by it, there remains a risk that significant additional tax liabilities may arise.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had exposures totalling US$26,345,000 2017: US$46,664,000 which are assessed as possible, rather than probable.
No amounts have been provided in respect of these items.
This predominantly relates to potential tax penalties and related interest on intercompany loans.
Notwithstanding this risk, the Directors believe that managements interpretation of the relevant legislation and assessment of taxation is appropriate and that it is probable that the Groups tax and customs positions will be sustained in the event of a challenge by the tax authorities.
Consequently, the Directors consider that they have made adequate provision for any future outflow of resources and no additional provision is required in respect of these claims or risks.
b Guarantees The Group is required to provide guarantees in Peru in respect of environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations.
The Group has provided for the estimated cost of these activities see note 25.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 145 34 Mining royalties Peru In accordance with Peruvian legislation, owners of mining concessions must pay a mining royalty for the exploitation of metallic and non-metallic resources.
Mining royalties have been calculated with rates ranging from 1% to 3% of the value of mineral concentrate or equivalent sold, based on quoted market prices.
In October 2011 changes came into effect for mining companies, with the following features: a I ntroduction of a Special Mining Tax SMT, levied on mining companies at the stage of exploiting mineral resources.
The additional tax is calculated by applying a progressive scale of rates ranging from 2% to 8.4%, of the quarterly operating profit.
b M odification of the mining royalty calculation, which consists of applying a progressive scale of rates ranging from 1% to 12%, of the quarterly operating profit.
The former royalty was calculated on the basis of the monthly sales value of mineral concentrates.
The SMT and modified mining royalty are accounted for as an income tax in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
c F or companies that have mining projects benefiting from tax stability regimes, mining royalties are calculated and recorded as they were previously, applying an additional new special charge on mining that is calculated using progressive scale rates, ranging from 4% to 13.12% of quarterly operating profit.
d I n the case of the Arcata mine unit, the company left the tax stability agreement, but has maintained the agreement for the mining royalties, such that the Arcata unit is liable for the new SMT but the mining royalties remain payable at the same rate as they were, before the modification in 2011.
As at 31 December 2018, the amount payable as under the former mining royalty for the Arcata mining unit, the new mining royalty for the Ares, Pallancata and Inmaculada mining units, and the SMT amounted to US$39,000 2017: US$108,000, US$975,000 2017: US$1,133,000, and US$279,000 2017: US$492,000 respectively.
The former mining royalty is recorded as Trade and other payables, and the new mining royalty and SMT as Income tax payable in the Statement of Financial Position.
The amount recorded in the income statement was US$561,000 2017: US$885,000 representing the former mining royalty, classified as cost of sales, US$4,494,000 2017: US$4,201,000 of new mining royalty and US$2,727,000 2017: US$2,229,000 of SMT, both classified as income tax.
Argentina In accordance with Argentinian legislation, Provinces being the legal owners of the mineral resources are entitled to collect royalties from mine operators.
For San Jose, the mining royalty applicable to dore and concentrate is 3% of the pit-head value.
As at 31 December 2018, the amount payable as mining royalties amounted to US$467,000 2017: US$576,000.
The amount recorded in the income statement as cost of sales was US$5,296,000 2017: US$5,792,000.
35 Financial risk management The Group is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may have a financial impact on the Group and which also impact the achievement of social, economic and environmental objectives.
These risks include strategic, commercial, operational and financial risks and are further categorised into risk areas to facilitate consolidated risk reporting across the Group.
The Group has made significant developments in the management of the Groups risk environment which seeks to identify and, where appropriate, implement the controls to mitigate the impact of the Groups significant risks.
This effort is supported by a Risk Committee with the participation of the CEO, the Vice Presidents, and the head of the internal audit function.
The Risk Committee is responsible for implementing the Groups policy on risk management and internal control in support of the Companys business objectives, and monitoring the effectiveness of risk management within the organisation.
a Commodity price risk Silver and gold prices have a material impact on the Groups results of operations.
Prices are significantly affected by changes in global economic conditions and related industry cycles.
Generally, producers of silver and gold are unable to influence prices directly: therefore, the Groups profitability is ensured through the control of its cost base and the efficiency of its operations.
The Groups policy is generally to remain hedge free.
However, management continuously monitors silver and gold prices and reserves the right to take the necessary action, where appropriate and within Board approved parameters, to mitigate the impact of this risk.
During 2018 and 2017 the Group had no hedging instruments.
At 31 December 2018 and 2017 the Group is not exposed to commodity price risk on commodity forward contracts.
The Group has price adjustments arising from the sale of concentrate and dore which were provisionally priced at the time the sale was recorded refer to note 4.
The sensitivity of the fair value to an immediate 10% favourable or adverse change in the price of gold and silver assuming all other variables remain constant, is as follows: Increase Effect on decrease in price profit before tax Year of ounces of: US$000 2018 Gold -10% -111 Silver -10% -456 2017 Gold -10% -335 Silver -10% -542 146 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 35 Financial risk management continued b Foreign currency risk The Group produces silver and gold which are typically priced in US dollars.
A proportion of the Groups costs are incurred in pounds sterling, Peruvian nuevos soles, Canadian dollars, Argentinian pesos and Mexican pesos.
Accordingly, the Groups financial results may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and the local currency.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and currencies in the countries in which the Group operates provides a certain degree of natural protection.
The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its foreign currency risks.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities, at the reporting date, denominated in their respective currencies, to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
Increase decrease in Effect US$ other on profit Effect currencies before tax on equity Year rate US$000 US$000 2018 Pounds sterling -10% -23 Argentinian pesos -10% -40 Mexican pesos -10% -939 Peruvian nuevos soles -10% - 334 Canadian dollars -10% -8 -343 Chilean pesos -10% - 92 -195 2017 Pounds sterling -10% -58 Argentinian pesos -10% -4,124 Mexican pesos -10% - 1,945 Peruvian nuevos soles -10% -864 Canadian dollars -10% -141 -567 Chilean pesos -10% -13 c Credit risk Credit risk arises from debtors inability to make payment of their obligations to the Group as they become due without taking into account the fair value of any guarantee or pledged assets.
The Group is primarily exposed to credit risk as a result of commercial activities and noncompliance, by counterparties, in transactions in cash which are primarily limited to cash balances deposited in banks and accounts receivable at the statement of financial position date.
Counterparty credit exposure based on commercial activities, including trade receivables, embedded derivatives and cash balances in banks as at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017: % collected As at as at 19 As at % collected 31 December February 31 December as at 19 2018 2019 2017 February Summary commercial partners US$000 US$000 US$000 2018 Trade receivables 45,201 63% 43,209 41% As at As at 31 31 December December 2018 2017 1 Cash and cash equivalents Credit rating US$000 US$000 A 6,651 A 10,165 20,700 A- 3,744 29,798 BBB 65,102 199,166 BBB 37 61 BBB- 6 NA 656 606 Total 79,704 256,988 1 The long-term credit rating as at 31 January 2019 2017: 6 February 2018.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 147 To manage the credit risk associated with commercial activities, the Group took the following steps: Active use of prepayment advance clauses in sales contracts.
Delaying delivery of title and or requiring advance payments to reduce exposure timeframe potential delay in sales recognition.
Maintaining as diversified a portfolio of clients as possible.
To manage credit risk associated with cash balances deposited in banks, the Group took the following steps: Increasing banking relationships with large, established and well-capitalised institutions in order to secure access to credit and to diversify credit risk.
Limiting exposure to financial counterparties according to Board approved limits.
Investing cash in short-term, highly liquid and low risk instruments money market accounts, term deposits, US Treasuries.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in notes 20, 22 and 36 e. The company will start a project to improve monitoring of counterparty risk.
The project will include private and public information from main counterparties customers, suppliers, banks and insurance companies.
d Equity risk on financial instruments The Group acquires financial instruments in connection with strategic alliances with third parties.
The Group constantly monitors the fair value of these instruments in order to decide whether or not it is convenient to dispose of these investments.
The disposal decision is also based on managements intention to continue with the strategic alliance, the tax implications and changes in the share price of the investee.
At 31 December 2018 the sensitivity to reasonable movements in the share price of financial assets at fair value through OCI of - 25% with all other variables held constant isUS$528,000 recognised in equity.
At 31 December 2017 the sensitivity to reasonable movements in the share price of available-for-sale financial assets of - 25% with all other variables held constant isUS$1,421,000 recognised in equity.
e Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: t echniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2018 and 2017, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: 31 December 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Equity shares note 18 5,296 2,110 3,186 Warrants note 18 47 47 1 Trade receivables due to price adjustments 5,555 5,555 31 December 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Equity shares note 18 5,683 5,683 Warrants note 18 1,333 1,333 1 Embedded derivatives 1,258 1,258 1 Sales of concentrate and certain dore volumes are provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded.
The price is then adjusted after an agreed period of time usually linked to the length of time it takes for the smelter to refine and sell the concentrate or for the refiner to process the dore into gold and silver, with the Group either paying or receiving the difference between the provisional price and the final price.
This price exposure is considered a price adjustment and is recorded in Revenue note 4.
Until 2017 the price adjustment was considered as an embedded derivative, recorded in Revenue note 4.
During the period ending 31 December 2018 and 2017, there were no transfers between these levels.
148 Hochschild Mining PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 35 Financial risk management continued The reconciliation of the financial instruments categorised as Level 3 is as follows: Trade receivables Embedded Unlisted price derivatives equity shares adjustments liabilities US$000 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 2017 1,726 Acquisitions 569 Foreign exchange adjustment 12 1 Changes in fair value of embedded derivatives 2,160 1 Realised embedded derivatives during the period 824 Balance at 31 December 2017 581 1,258 Reclassification to trade receivables price adjustments 1,258 1,258 Acquisition 2,120 Fair value adjustment 485 1 Changes in fair value of price adjustments 5,646 Realised price adjustments during the period 9,943 Balance at 31 December 2018 3,186 5,555 1 The movement of the period has been recognised in Revenue note 4. f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises from the Groups inability to obtain the funds it requires to comply with its commitments, including the inability to sell a financial asset quickly enough and at a price close to its fair value.
Management constantly monitors the Groups level of shortand medium-term liquidity, and their access to credit lines, in order to ensure appropriate financing is available for its operations.
The table below categorises the undiscounted cash flows of Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period as at the statement of financial position to the contractual maturity date.
Interest cash flows have been calculated using the spot rate at year end.
Changes in interest rates primarily impact loans and borrowings by changing either their fair value fixed rate debt or their future cash flows variable rate debt.
The Group does not have a formal policy of determining how much of its exposure should be at fixed or at variable rates.
However, at the time of taking new loans or borrowings, management applies its judgement to decide whether it believes that a fixed or variable rate borrowing would be more favourable to the Group over the expected period until maturity.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 149 As at 31 December 2018 Between Between Within 1 and 2 and Over 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Assets 36,243 36,243 Liabilities 107,067 107,067 Floating rate Liabilities 50,000 50,000 As at 31 December 2017 Between Between Within 1 and 2 and Over 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Assets 192,172 192,172 Liabilities 67,863 291,955 359,818 Floating rate Assets 2,869 2,869 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The sensitivity to a reasonable movement in the interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the financial instruments with a floating rate, determined as a -50bps change in interest rates has a - US$479,000 effect on profit before tax 2017: - US$14,000.
The Group is exposed to fluctuations in market interest rates.
This assumes that the amount remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2018 and 2017 and that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the year.
In reality, the floating rate will fluctuate over the year and interest rates will change accordingly.
h Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Management considers as part of its capital, the financial sources of funding from shareholders and third parties notes 24 and 26.
Management also retains the right to fund operations fully owned and with joint venture partners with a mix of equity and joint venture partners debt.
36 Subsequent events The Group announced its intention to suspend operations at the Arcata mine, in south west Peru, and place it on care and maintenance.
It is anticipated that full care and maintenance will be in effect by the second quarter of 2019.
An exploration programme and permitting work are expected to continue along with a regular review of the market conditions for a potential restart of operations in the future.
150 Hochschild Mining PLC PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 As at 31 December 2018 2017 Notes US$000 US$000 ASSETS Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries 5 1,648,457 2,336,010 1,648,457 2,336,010 Current assets Other receivables 6 8,392 10,463 Cash and cash equivalents 7 792 2,182 9,184 12,645 Total assets 1,657,641 2,348,655 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity share capital 8 225,409 224,315 Share premium 8 458,267 458,267 Treasury shares 8 140 Other reserves 4,860 7,634 Retained earnings 719,736 1,423,704 Total equity 1,408,272 2,113,780 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 9 3,500 Provisions 10 71 480 71 3,980 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 9 249,298 230,895 249,298 230,895 Total liabilities 249,369 234,875 Total equity and liabilities 1,657,641 2,348,655 The loss of the Company after tax amounted to US$686,831,000 2017: gain of US$487,315,000.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Ignacio Bustamante Chief Executive Officer 19 February 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 151 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Year ended 31 December 2018 2017 Notes US$000 US$000 Reconciliation of loss for the year to net cash used in operating activities Profit for the year 686,831 487,315 Adjustments to reconcile Company profit to net cash outflows from operating activities Impairment reversal of impairment on investment in subsidiary 5 687,553 491,285 Share-based payments 1,543 449 Finance income 5,207 1,739 Finance costs 11 19 Income tax Decrease increase of cash flows from operations due to changes in assets and liabilities Other receivables 38 484 Trade and other payables 385 235 Provision for Long-Term Incentive Plan 293 795 Cash used in operating activities 5,377 4,197 Interest received 12 45 Net cash used in operating activities 5,365 4,152 Cash flows from investing activities Repayment of loans 5,553 Net cash generated from investing activities 5,553 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 19,999 13,996 Purchase of treasury shares 579 Repayment of borrowings 1,500 72 Loans from subsidiaries 20,500 10,000 Cash flows used in financing activities 1,578 4,068 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year 1,390 8,220 Exchange difference 60 61 Other 60 61 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,182 10,402 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 7 792 2,182 152 Hochschild Mining PLC PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Other reserves ShareEquity based share Share Treasury payment Total other Retained Total capital premium shares reserve reserves earnings equity Notes US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 2017 224,315 458,267 426 5,869 5,869 949,863 1,637,888 Other comprehensive income Profit for the year 487,315 487,315 Total comprehensive profit for the year 487,315 487,315 Exercise of share options 8 286 48 48 238 Dividends 2 13,996 13,996 Share-based payments 2 1,813 1,813 760 2,573 Balance at 31 December 2017 224,315 458,267 140 7,634 7,634 1,423,704 2,113,780 Other comprehensive income Profit for the year 686,831 686,831 Total comprehensive profit for the year 686,831 686,831 Exercise of share options 1,094 719 4,675 4,675 2,862 Dividends 19,999 19,999 Purchase of treasury shares 579 579 Share-based payments 1,901 1,901 1,901 Balance at 31 December 2018 225,409 458,267 4,860 4,860 719,736 1,408,272
