Additional information Shareholder information Page Fourth interim dividend for 2018 310 Interim dividends for 2019 310 2018 Annual General Meeting 311 Earnings releases and interim results 311 Shareholder enquiries and communications 311 Stock symbols 312 Investor relations 312 Where more information about HSBC is available 312 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 314 Certain defined terms 315 Abbreviations 316 A glossary of terms used in this Annual Report and Accounts can be found in the Investors section of www.
Fourth interim dividend for 2018 The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend for 2018 of $0.21 per ordinary share.
Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 6 March2019.
The timetable for the dividend is: Footnotes Announcement 19 February 2019 Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda and American Depositary Shares ADS quoted ex-dividend in New York 21 February 2019 1 Record date London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris, Bermuda 22 February 2019 Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2018 and or Strategic Report 2018 and dividend documentation 6 March 2019 Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election, Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing instructions for scrip dividends 21 March 2019 Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars 25 March 2019 Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certificates or transaction advices and notional tax vouchers mailed and shares credited to stock accounts in CREST 8 April 2019 1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date.
Interim dividends for 2019 The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on ordinary shares.
Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend.
It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2019 will be $0.10 per ordinary share.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, pounds sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Boards determination that a scrip dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
Other equity instruments Additional tier 1 capital contingent convertible securities HSBC continues to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in its capital base as fully CRD IV-compliant additional tier 1 capital securities on an end point basis.
These securities are marketed principally and subsequently allotted to corporate investors and fund managers.
The net proceeds of the issuances are used for HSBCs general corporate purposes and to further strengthen its capital base to meet requirements under CRD IV.
These securities bear a fixed rate of interest until their initial call dates.
After the initial call dates, if they are not redeemed, the securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on credit spreads, fixed at issuance, above prevailing market rates.
Interest on the contingent convertible securities will be due and payable only at the sole discretion of HSBC, and HSBC has sole and absolute discretion at all times to cancel for any reason in whole or part any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any payment date.
Distributions will not be paid if they are prohibited under UK banking regulations or if the company has insufficient reserves or fails to meet the solvency conditions defined in the securities terms.
The contingent convertible securities are undated and are repayable at the option of HSBC in whole at the initial call date or on any fifth anniversary after this date.
In addition, the securities are repayable at the option of HSBC in whole for certain regulatory or tax reasons.
Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA.
These securities rank pari passu with HSBCs dollar and sterling preference shares and therefore rank ahead of ordinary shares.
The contingent convertible securities will be converted into fully paid ordinary shares of HSBC at a predetermined price, should HSBCs consolidated end point CET1 ratio fall below 7.0%.
Therefore, in accordance with the terms of the securities, if the end point CET1 ratio breaches the 7.0% trigger, the securities will convert into ordinary shares at fixed contractual conversion prices in the issuance currencies of the relevant securities, equivalent to 2.70 at the prevailing rate of exchange on the issuance date, subject to anti-dilution adjustments.
310 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Additional tier 1 capital instruments issued during 2018 Nominal Issue price Market price Net price Issue date $m % % % $2,350m 6.250% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities 2,350 100.00 93.80 100.00 23 March 2018 $1,800m 6.500% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities 1,800 100.00 91.75 100.00 23 March 2018 24 September SGD750m 5.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities 550 100.00 100.29 100.00 2018 28 September 1,000m 5.875% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities 1,301 100.00 95.89 100.00 2018 2018 Annual General Meeting All resolutions considered at the 2018 Annual General Meeting held at 11.00am on 20 April 2018 at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London SW1P 3EE were passed on a poll.
Earnings releases and interim results Earnings releases are expected to be issued on or around 3 May 2019 and 28 October 2019.
The interim results for the six months to 30June 2019 are expected to be issued on 5 August 2019.
Shareholder enquiries and communications Enquiries Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register for example, transfers of shares, changes of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below.
The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically.
Principal Register: Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Hong Kong Investor Investors Relations Team The Pavilions Services Limited HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited Bridgwater Road Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor 37 Front Street Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hopewell Centre Hamilton HM 11 United Kingdom 183 Queens Road East Bermuda Telephone: 44 0 370 702 0137 Hong Kong Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 Email via website: Telephone: 852 2862 8555 Email: hbbm.
co. uk contactus Email: hsbc.
hk Investor Centre: Investor Centre: Investor Centre: www.
com bm Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 505000 Louisville, KY 40233-5000 USA Telephone US : 1 877 283 5786 Telephone International : 1 201 680 6825 Email: shrrelations@.
com Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for NYSE Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: CACEIS Corporate Trust 14, rue Rouget fide Lisle 92130 Issy-Les-Moulineaux France Telephone: 33 1 57 78 34 28 Email: ct-service-ost@caceis.
com If you have elected to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is important to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to your investment remains the registered shareholder, or custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf.
Therefore any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding including any administration of it must continue to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian or broker.
HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in error.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 311 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Additional information Shareholders who wish to receive a hard copy should contact HSBCs Registrars.
com investors investor-contacts for further information.
You can also download an online version of the report from www.
Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive notifications of their availability on HSBCs website.
To receive notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBCs website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.
If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email.
If you received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBCs website and would like to receive a printed copy, or if you would like to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email quoting your shareholder reference number to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above.
Printed copies will be provided without charge.
Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2018 will be available upon request after 6 March 2019 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Computershare Investor Services PLC Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor The Pavilions Hopewell Centre Bridgwater Road 183 Queens Road East Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hong Kong United Kingdom Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents, or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive them in future.
Stock symbols HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC.
BH New York Stock Exchange ADS HSBC HSBCs Primary market Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBCs strategy or operations may be directed to: Richard OConnor, Global Head of Investor Relations Hugh Pye, Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 8 Canada Square Corporation Limited London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central United Kingdom Hong Kong Telephone: 44 0 20 7991 6590 Telephone: 852 2822 4908 Email: investorrelations@hsbc.
hk Where more information about HSBC is available This Annual Report and Accounts 2018, and other information on HSBC, may be downloaded from HSBCs website: www.
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.
Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N. E. Washington, DC 20549-0213 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.
Investors should call the Commission at 1 202 551 8090 if they require further assistance.
Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC Holdings files at www.
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013.
The legislation requires HSBC Holdings to publish additional information in respect of the year ended 31December 2018 by 31 December 2019.
This information will be available on HSBCs website: www.
312 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 allowance that is given in calculating the gain would be frozen at Taxation of shares and dividends the value that would apply to the disposal of assets acquired on or after 1 January 2018.
If in doubt, shareholders are recommended Taxation UK residents to consult their professional advisers.
The following is a summary, under current law and the current Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax published practice of UK HM Revenue and Customer HMRC, of certain UK tax considerations that are likely to be material to the Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer generally ownership and disposition of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
The will be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description of consideration paid for the transfer rounded up to the next 5, and all the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of such stamp duty is generally payable by the transferee.
In particular, the summary deals with shareholders who agreement to transfer shares, or any interest therein, normally will are resident solely in the UK for UK tax purposes and only with give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% holders who hold the shares as investments and who are the of the consideration.
However, provided an instrument of transfer beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address the tax of the shares is executed pursuant to the agreement and duly treatment of certain classes of holders such as dealers in stamped before the date on which the stamp duty reserve tax securities.
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult becomes payable, under the current published practice of HMRC it their own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an will not be necessary to pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to investment in shares in light of their particular circumstances, apply for such tax to be cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve tax is including the effect of any national, state or local laws.
generally payable by the transferee.
Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UKs paperless Taxation of dividends share transfer system, are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by rate of 0.5% of the consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax is HSBCHoldings.
calculated and payment made automatically.
Deposits of shares UK resident individuals into CREST generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer into CREST is itself for consideration.
Following UK resident individuals are generally entitled to a tax-free annual the case HSBC pursued before the European Court of Justice allowance in respect of dividends received.
The amount of the Case C-569 07 HSBC Holdings plc and Vidacos Nominees Ltd v allowance for the tax year beginning 6 April 2018 is 2,000.
To the The Commissioners for HM Revenue & Customs and a extent that dividend income received by an individual in the subsequent case in relation to depositary receipts, HMRC accepts relevant tax year does not exceed the allowance, a nil tax rate will that the charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue of apply.
Dividend income in excess of this allowance will be taxed at shares and transfers integral to capital raising to a depositary 7.5% for basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and receipt issuer or a clearance service is incompatible with European 38.1% for additional rate taxpayers.
Union law, and will not be imposed.
UK resident companies At Autumn Budget 2017, the UK government announced that it Shareholders that are within the charge to UK corporation will continue its policy of not charging a 1.5% stamp duty and taxshould generally be entitled to an exemption from UK stamp duty reserve tax on issues of shares to overseas clearance corporation tax on any dividends received from HSBC Holdings.
services and depositary receipt issuers following the UKs However, the exemptions are not comprehensive and are subject departure from the European Union, although no further to anti-avoidance rules.
confirmations or assurances have been given since then.
If the conditions for exemption are not met or cease to be Taxation US residents satisfied, or a shareholder within the charge to UK corporation tax The following is a summary, under current law, of the principal UK elects for an otherwise exempt dividend to be taxable, the tax and US federal income tax considerations that are likely to be shareholder will be subject to UK corporation tax on dividends material to the ownership and disposition of shares or American received from HSBC Holdings at the rate of corporation tax Depositary Shares ADSs by a holder that is a US holder, as applicable to that shareholder.
defined below, and who is not resident in the UK for UK tax Scrip dividends purposes.
Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC Holdings The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 2017 fourth interim dividend of all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of and the first, second and third interim dividends for 2018 was set shares or ADSs.
In particular, the summary deals only with US out in the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 7 March, 31 May, holders that hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, and does not 29 August and 24 October 2018.
In no case was the difference address the tax treatment of holders that are subject to special tax between the cash dividend forgone and the market value of the rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, scrip dividend in excess of 15% of the market value.
Accordingly, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or for individual shareholders, the amount of the dividend income ADSs as part of an integrated investment including a straddle or chargeable to tax, and the acquisition price of the HSBC Holdings hedge comprised of a share or ADS and one or more other ordinary shares for UK capital gains tax purposes, was the cash positions, and persons that own, directly or indirectly, 10% or dividend forgone.
more by vote or value of the stock of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and Taxation of capital gains regulatory interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of which The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising on are subject to change.
disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to For the purposes of this discussion, a US holder is a beneficial UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly depending on holder that is a citizen or resident of the United States, a US whether, for example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, domestic corporation or otherwise is subject to US federal income acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and taxes on a net income basis in respect thereof.
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange for shares in other companies.
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary shares or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, including shares is adjusted to take account of subsequent rights and the effect of any national, state or local laws.
Any capital gain arising on a disposal of shares in HSBC Holdings by a UK company may also be adjusted Any US federal tax advice included in this Annual Report and to take account of indexation allowance if the shares were Accounts 2018 is for informational purposes only: it was not acquired before 1 January 2018, although the level of indexation HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 313 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Additional information intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at purpose of avoiding US federal tax penalties.
all times outside the UK, and provided further that any such transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK.
Taxation of dividends No stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
For US tax purposes, a US holder must include cash US backup withholding tax and information reporting dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the date that such holder or the ADS depositary receives them, Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into US dollars of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain using the exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt.
A US financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to information holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash dividend must reporting and may be subject to a US backup withholding tax.
include in ordinary income the fair market value of such shares on General exceptions to this rule happen when the US holder: the dividend payment date, and the tax basis of those shares will establishes that it is a corporation other than an S corporation or equal such fair market value.
other exempt holder: or provides a correct taxpayer identification number, certifies that no loss of exemption from backup Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less withholding has occurred and otherwise complies with the than 61 days, and subject to a foreign corporation being applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules.
Holders considered a qualified foreign corporation which includes not that are not US taxpayers generally are not subject to information being classified for US federal income tax purposes as a passive reporting or backup withholding tax, but may be required to foreign investment company, certain dividends qualified comply with applicable certification procedures to establish that dividends received by an individual US holder generally will be they are not US taxpayers in order to avoid the application of such subject to US taxation at preferential rates.
Based on the information reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to companys audited financial statements and relevant market and payments received within the US or through certain financial shareholder data, HSBC Holdings was not and does not anticipate intermediaries.
being classified as a passive foreign investment company.
Accordingly, dividends paid on the shares or ADSs generally should be treated as qualified dividends.
Cautionary statement regarding Taxation of capital gains forward-looking statements Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of The Annual Report and Accounts 2018 contains certain forwardshares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless looking statements with respect to HSBCs financial condition, at the time of the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a results of operations and business, including the strategic trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency priorities and 2020 financial, investment and capital targets or permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have described herein.
been used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, Statements that are not historical facts, including statements profession, vocation, branch or agency or permanent about HSBCs beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking establishment.
Such gains will be included in income for US tax statements.
Words such as expects, targets, anticipates, purposes, and will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, potential and were held for more than one year.
A long-term capital gain realised reasonably possible, variations of these words and similar by an individual US holder generally will be subject to US tax at expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans, estimates and Inheritance tax projections, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is are made.
HSBC makes no commitment to revise or update any determined to be the US for the purposes of the United  statements to reflect events or circumstances United Kingdom Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and occurring or existing after the date of any forward-looking gift taxes the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not for such statements.
purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK Written and or oral forward-looking statements may also be made inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of in the periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange shares or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or ADSs Commission, summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy i are comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a and other written materials, and in oral statements made by national of the UK, ii are part of the business property of a UK HSBCs Directors, officers or employees to third parties, including permanent establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertain to a UK financial analysts.
fixed base of an individual used for the performance of Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and independent personal services.
In such cases, the Estate Tax uncertainties.
Readers are cautioned that a number of factors Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability for could cause actual results to differ, in some instances materially, the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or from those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal statement.
These include, but are not limited to: estate or gift tax.
Changes in general economic conditions in the markets Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax ADSs inwhich we operate, such as continuing or deepening If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American recessions and fluctuations in employment beyond those factored into consensus forecasts: changes in foreign exchange Depositary Receipt ADR issuer which will include a transfer of shares to the Depositary under the current published HMRC rates and interest rates, including the accounting impact practice, UK stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax will be resulting from financial reporting in respect of hyperinflationary economies: volatility in equity markets: lack of liquidity in payable.
The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the wholesale funding markets: illiquidity and downward price pressure in national real estate markets: adverse changes in aggregate rate of 1.5%.
central banks policies with respect to the provision of liquidity The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer support to financial markets: heightened market concerns over will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the sovereign creditworthiness in over-indebted countries: adverse same transfer.
changes in the funding status of public or private defined No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to benefit pensions: and consumer perception as to the transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate continuing availability of credit and price competition in 314 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 themarket segments we serve: and deviations from the market Certain defined terms and economic assumptions that form the basis for our ECL measurements: Unless the context requires otherwise, HSBC Holdings means HSBC Holdings plc and HSBC, the Group, we, us and our Changes in government policy and regulation, including the refer to HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries.
Within this monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and document the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the other regulatory authorities: initiatives to change the size, Peoples Republic of China is referred to as Hong Kong.
When scope of activities and interconnectedness of financial used in the terms shareholders equity and total shareholders institutions in connection with the implementation of stricter equity, shareholders means holders of HSBC Holdings ordinary regulation of financial institutions in key markets worldwide: shares and those preference shares and capital securities issued revised capital and liquidity benchmarks which could serve to by HSBC Holdings classified as equity.
The abbreviations $m, deleverage bank balance sheets and lower returns available $bn and $tn represent millions, billions thousands of millions from the current business model and portfolio mix: imposition and trillions of US dollars, respectively.
of levies or taxes designed to change business mix and risk appetite: the practices, pricing or responsibilities of financial institutions serving their consumer markets: expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation of assets and changes in legislation relating toforeign ownership: changes in bankruptcy legislation in theprincipal markets in which we operate and the consequences thereof: general changes in government policy that may significantly influence investor decisions: extraordinary government actions as a result of current market turmoil: other unfavourable political or diplomatic developments producing social instability or legal uncertainty which in turn may affect demand for our products and services: the costs, effects and outcomes of product regulatory reviews, actions or litigation, including any additional compliance requirements: and the effects of competition in the markets where we operate including increased competition from nonbank financial services companies, including securities firms.
Factors specific to HSBC, including our success in adequately identifying the risks we face, such as the incidence of loan losses or delinquency, and managing those risks through account management, hedging and other techniques.
Effective risk management depends on, among other things, our ability through stress testing and other techniques to prepare for events that cannot be captured by the statistical models it uses: and our success in addressing operational, legal and regulatory, and litigation challenges: and other risks and uncertainties we identify in top and emerging risks on pages 69 to 73.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 315 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
