Notes on the financial statements Notes on the Financial Statements Page Page 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies 224 21 Goodwill and intangible assets 272 2 Net fee income 237 22 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 274 23 Trading liabilities 274 Net income expense from financial instruments through profit or 3 loss measured at fair value 238 24 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 274 4 Insurance business 238 25 Debt securities in issue 275 5 Operating profit 240 26 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 275 6 Employee compensation and benefits 240 27 Provisions 276 7 Auditors remuneration 246 28 Subordinated liabilities 277 8 Tax 246 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet 29 commitments 280 9 Dividends 249 10 Earnings per share 249 30 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities 284 11 Trading assets 250 31 Non-controlling interests 285 12 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fairvalue 250 32 Called up share capital and other equity instruments 286 13 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 258 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments 33 and guarantees 288 Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured 14 at fair value 259 34 Lease commitments 288 15 Derivatives 260 35 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 289 16 Financial investments 263 36 Related party transactions 294 17 Assets pledged, collateral received and assets transferred 264 37 Effects of reclassification upon adoption of IFRS 9 296 18 Interests in associates and joint ventures 265 38 Events after the balance sheet date 301 19 Investments in subsidiaries 269 39 HSBC Holdings subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 301 20 Structured entities 270 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, including interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, and as endorsed by the European Union EU.
At 31 December 2018, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2018 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and HSBCs application of IFRSs results in no differences between IFRSs as issued by the IASB and IFRSs as endorsed by the EU.
Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2018 HSBC has adopted the requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 January 2018, with the exception of the provisions relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value, which were adopted from 1 January 2017.
This includes the adoption of Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation Amendments to IFRS 9, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 with early adoption permitted.
The effect of its adoption is not significant.
IFRS 9 includes an accounting policy choice to remain with IAS 39 hedge accounting, which HSBC has exercised.
The classification and measurement, and impairment requirements, are applied retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet at the date of initial application.
As permitted by IFRS 9, HSBC has not restated comparatives.
Adoption reduced net assets at 1 January 2018 by $1,647m as set out in Note 37 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018.
In addition, HSBC has adopted the requirements of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers and a number of interpretations and amendments to standards, which have had an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
IFRS 9 transitional requirements The transitional requirements of IFRS 9 necessitated a review of the designation of financial instruments at fair value.
IFRS 9 requires that the designation is revoked where there is no longer an accounting mismatch at 1 January 2018 and permits designations to be revoked or additional designations created at 1 January 2018 if there are accounting mismatches at that date.
As a result: fair value designations for financial liabilities were revoked where the accounting mismatch no longer exists, as required by IFRS 9: and fair value designations were revoked for certain long-dated securities where accounting mismatches continue to exist, but where HSBC has revoked the designation as permitted by IFRS 9 since it will better mitigate the accounting mismatch by undertaking fair value hedge accounting.
The results of these changes are included in the reconciliation set out in Note 37.
Changes in accounting policy While not necessarily required by the adoption of IFRS 9, the following voluntary changes in accounting policy and presentation were made as a result of reviews carried out in conjunction with its adoption.
The effect of presentational changes at 1 January 2018 is included in the reconciliation set out in Note 37, and comparatives have not been restated.
224 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 We considered market practices for the presentation of certain financial liabilities, which contain both deposit and derivative components.
We concluded that it would be appropriate to change the accounting policy and presentation of trading customer accounts and other debt securities in issue, to better align with the presentation of similar financial instruments by peers.
This therefore provides more relevant information about the effect of these financial liabilities on our financial position and performance.
As a result, rather than being classified as held for trading, we designate these financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or loss since they are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis.
A further consequence of this change in presentation is that the effects of changes in the liabilities credit risk are presented in Other comprehensive income, with the remaining effect presented in profit or loss in accordance with Group accounting policy adopted in 2017 following the adoption of the requirements in IFRS 9 relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value.
Cash collateral, margin and settlement accounts have been reclassified from Trading assets and Loans and advances to banks and customers to Prepayments, accrued income and other assets and from Trading liabilities and Deposits by banks and Customer accounts to Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities.
The change in presentation for financial assets is in accordance with IFRS 9 and the change in presentation for financial liabilities is considered to provide more relevant information, given the change in presentation for the financial assets.
The change in presentation for financial liabilities has had no effect on the measurement of these items and therefore on retained earnings or profit for any period.
Certain stock borrowing assets have been reclassified from Loans and advances to banks and customers to Trading assets.
The change in measurement is a result of the determination of the global business model for this activity and will align the presentation throughout the Group.
Prior to 2018, foreign exchange exposure on some financial instruments designated at fair value was presented in the same line in the income statement as the underlying fair value movement on these instruments.
In 2018, we have grouped the presentation of the entire effect of foreign exchange exposure in profit or loss and presented it within Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis.
Comparative data has been re-presented.
b Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC, and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the financial statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements.
c Future accounting developments Minor amendments to IFRSs The IASB has published a number of minor amendments to IFRSs that are effective from 1 January 2019, some of which have been endorsed for use in the EU.
HSBC expects they will have an insignificant effect, when adopted, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
Major new IFRSs The IASB has published IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts.
IFRS 16 has been endorsed for use in the EU and IFRS 17 has not yet been endorsed.
In addition, an amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes has not yet been endorsed.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases has an effective date for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 results in lessees accounting for most leases within the scope of the standard in a manner similar to the way in which finance leases are currently accounted for under IAS 17 Leases.
Lessees will recognise a right of use ROU asset and a corresponding financial liability on the balance sheet.
The asset will be amortised over the length of the lease, and the financial liability measured at amortised cost.
Lessor accounting remains substantially the same as under IAS 17.
The Group expects to adopt the standard using a modified retrospective approach where the cumulative effect of initially applying it is recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings and comparatives are not restated.
The implementation is expected to increase assets by approximately $5bn and increase financial liabilities by the same amount with no effect on net assets or retained earnings.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts was issued in May 2017, and sets out the requirements that an entity should apply in accounting for insurance contracts it issues and reinsurance contracts it holds.
IFRS 17 is currently effective from 1 January 2021.
However, the IASB is considering delaying the mandatory implementation date by one year and may make additional changes to the standard.
The Group is in the process of implementing IFRS 17.
Industry practice and interpretation of the standard is still developing and there may be changes to it, therefore the likely impact of its implementation remains uncertain.
Amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes An amendment to IAS 12 was issued in December 2017 as part of the annual improvement cycle.
The amendment clarifies that an entity should recognise the tax consequences of dividends where the transactions or events that generated the distributable profits are recognised.
This amendment is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and is applied to the income tax consequences of distributions recognised on or after the beginning of the earliest comparative period.
As a result of its application, the income tax consequences of distributions on certain capital securities classified as equity will be presented in profit or loss rather than directly in equity.
If the amendment had been applied in 2018, the impact for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have been a $261m increase in profit after tax 2017: $224m with no effect on equity.
d Foreign currencies HSBCs consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business.
The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings functional currency because the US dollar and currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, except non-monetary assets andliabilities measured at historical cost, which are translated using the rate of exchange at the initial transaction date.
Exchange differences are HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 225 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements included in other comprehensive income or in the income statement depending on where the gain or loss on the underlying item is recognised.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, liabilities and results of foreign operations, whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
e Presentation of information Certain disclosures required by IFRSs have been included in the sections marked as Audited in this Annual Report and Accounts as follows: segmental disclosures are included in the Report of the Directors: Financial summary on pages 34 to 68: disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments are included in theReport of the Directors: Risk on pages 69 to 147: capital disclosures are included in the Report of the Directors: Capital on pages 148 to 151: and disclosures relating to HSBCs securitisation activities and structured products are included in the Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 69 to 147.
In accordance with the policy to provide disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders understand the Groups performance, financial position and changes to them, the information provided in the Notes on the financial statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by accounting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules.
In addition, HSBC follows the UK Finance Disclosure Code the UKF Disclosure Code.
The UKF Disclosure Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance agreed in 2010.
In line with the principles of the UKF Disclosure Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters, and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
f Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions.
In view of the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items, highlighted as the critical accounting estimates and judgements in section 1.2 below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which managements estimates are based.
This could result in materially different estimates and judgements from those reached by management for the purposes of these financial statements.
Managements selection of HSBCs accounting policies that contain critical estimates and judgements reflects the materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved.
g Segmental analysis HSBCs Chief Operating Decision Maker is the Group Chief Executive, who is supported by the rest of the Group Management Board GMB, which operates as a general management committee under the direct authority of the Board.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Group Chief Executive and the GMB.
Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income and expenses is in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Segmental income and expenses include transfers between segments, and these transfers are conducted at arms length.
Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.
h Going concern The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
1.2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Consolidation and related policies Investments in subsidiaries Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when it holds directly or indirectly the necessary voting rights to pass resolutions by the governing body.
In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors, including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct relevant activities, and whether power is held as agent or principal.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either atfair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
This election is made foreach business combination.
HSBC Holdings investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses.
Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
HSBCs CGUs are based on geographical regions subdivided by global business, except for Global Banking and Markets, for which goodwill is monitored on a global basis.
Impairment testing is performed at least once a year, or whenever there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount of a CGU with its carrying amount.
Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated or it is an operation within such a CGU.
The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU retained.
226 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The review of goodwill for impairment reflects managements best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as follows: The future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of sustainable cash flows thereafter.
Forecasts are compared with actual performance and verifiable economic data, but they reflect managements view of future business prospects at the time of the assessment.
The rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their valuation, and are based on the costs of capital assigned to individual CGUs.
The cost of capital percentage is generally derived from a capital asset pricing model, which incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, including the risk-free interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates and economic conditions beyond managements control.
They are therefore subject to uncertainty and require the exercise of significant judgement.
The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market conditions.
In such circumstances, management re-tests goodwill for impairment more frequently than once a year when indicators of impairment exist.
This ensures that the assumptions on which the cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect current market conditions and managements best estimate of future business prospects.
HSBC sponsored structured entities HSBC is considered to sponsor another entity if, in addition to ongoing involvement with the entity, it had a key role in establishing that entity or in bringing together relevant counterparties so the transaction that is the purpose of the entity could occur.
HSBC is generally not considered a sponsor if the only involvement with the entity is merely administrative.
Interests in associates and joint arrangements Joint arrangements are investments in which HSBC, together with one or more parties, has joint control.
Depending on HSBCs rights and obligations, the joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a joint venture.
HSBC classifies investments inentities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint arrangements, as associates.
HSBC recognises its share of the assets, liabilities and results in a joint operation.
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
The attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates is included in the consolidated financial statements of HSBC based on either financial statements made up to 31 December or pro-rated amounts adjusted for any material transactions or events occurring between the date the financial statements are available and 31 December.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are assessed at each reporting date and tested for impairment when there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is not tested separately for impairment, but is assessed as part of the carrying amount of the investment.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Impairment testing of investments in associates involves significant judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from continuing to hold the investment.
The most significant judgements relate to the impairment testing of our investment in Bank of Communications Co. Limited BoCom.
Key assumptions used in estimating BoComs value in use, the sensitivity of the value in use calculation to different assumptions and a sensitivity analysis that shows the changes in key assumptions that would reduce the excess of value in use over the carrying amount the headroom to nil are described in Note 18. b Income and expense Operating income Interest income and expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments, excluding those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value, are recognised in Interest income and Interest expense in the income statement using the effective interest method.
However, as an exception to this, interest on debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated under the fair value option and on derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities is included in interest expense.
Interest on credit-impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Non-interest income and expense HSBC generates fee income from services provided at a fixed price over time, such as account service and card fees, or when HSBC delivers a specific transaction at a point in time, such as broking services and import export services.
With the exception of certain fund management and performance fees, all other fees are generated at a fixed price.
Fund management and performance fees can be variable depending on the size of the customer portfolio and HSBCs performance as fund manager.
Variable fees are recognised when all uncertainties are resolved.
Fee income is generally earned from short-term contracts with payment terms that do not include a significant financing component.
HSBC acts as principal in the majority of contracts with customers, with the exception of broking services.
For most brokerage trades, HSBC acts as agent in the transaction and recognises broking income net of fees payable to other parties in the arrangement.
HSBC recognises fees earned on transaction-based arrangements at a point in time when we have fully provided the service to the customer.
Where the contract requires services to be provided over time, income is recognised on a systematic basis over the life of the agreement.
Where HSBC offers a package of services that contains multiple non-distinct performance obligations, such as those included in account service packages, the promised services are treated as a single performance obligation.
If a package of services contains distinct performance obligations, such as those including both account and insurance services, the corresponding transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on the estimated stand-alone selling prices.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
This is the ex-dividend date for listed equity securities, and usually the date when shareholders approve the dividend for unlisted equity securities.
Net income expense from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss includes the following: HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 227 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis: This comprises net trading income, which includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends.
It also includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Net income expense from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss: This includes interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss: and those derivatives managed in conjunction with the above that can be separately identifiable from other trading derivatives.
Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives: Interest paid on the external long-term debt and interest cash flows on related derivatives is presented in interest expense.
Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss: This includes interest on instruments that fail the solely payments of principal and interest SPPI test, see d below.
The accounting policies for insurance premium income are disclosed in Note 1.2 j. c Valuation of financial instruments All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid totransfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is generally its transaction price that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
However, if there is a difference between the transaction price and the fair value of financial instruments whose fair value is based ona quoted price in an active market or a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets, HSBC recognises the difference as a trading gain or loss at inception a day 1 gain or loss.
In all other cases, the entire day 1 gain or loss is deferred and recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction until the transaction matures, is closed out, the valuation inputs become observable or HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction.
The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on an individual basis.
However, in cases where HSBC manages a group of financial assets and liabilities according to its net market or credit risk exposure, the fair value of the group of financial instruments is measured on a net basis but the underlying financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the financial statements, unless they satisfy the IFRS offsetting criteria.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data.
However, certain financial instruments are classified on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them the measurement of fair value is more judgemental.
An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if, in the opinion of management, greater than 5% of the instruments valuation is driven by unobservable inputs.
Unobservable in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to determine the price at which an arms length transaction would be likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there is no data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value consensus pricing data may, for example, be used.
d Financial instruments measured at amortised cost Financial assets that are held to collect the contractual cash flows and which contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost.
Such financial assets include most loans and advances to banks and customers and some debt securities.
In addition, most financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
HSBC accounts for regular way amortised cost financial instruments using trade date accounting.
The carrying value of these financial assets at initial recognition includes any directly attributable transactions costs.
If the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced, such as in the case of some leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the difference is deferred and recognised over the life of the loan through the recognition of interest income.
HSBC may commit to underwriting loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time.
When the loan arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative.
When HSBC intends tohold the loan, the loan commitment is included in the impairment calculations set out below.
Non-trading reverse repurchase, repurchase and similar agreements When debt securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price repos, they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received.
Securities purchased under commitments to resell reverse repos are not recognised on the balance sheet and an asset is recorded in respect of the initial consideration paid.
Non-trading repos and reverse repos are measured at amortised cost.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price or between the purchase and resale price is treated as interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement.
Contracts that are economically equivalent to reverse repo or repo agreements such as sales or purchases of debt securities entered into together with total return swaps with the same counterparty are accounted for similarly to, and presented together with, reverse repo or repo agreements.
e Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Financial assets held for a business model that is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling and which contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
These comprise primarily debt securities.
They are recognised on the trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements to purchase and are normally derecognised when they are either sold or redeemed.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value and changes therein except for those relating to impairment, interest income and foreign currency exchange gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income until the assets are sold.
Upon disposal, the cumulative gains or losses in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as Gains less losses from financial instruments.
Financial assets measured at FVOCI are included in the impairment calculations set out below and impairment is recognised in profit or loss.
f Equity securities measured at fair value with fair value movements presented in other comprehensive income The equity securities for which fair value movements are shown in other comprehensive income are business facilitation and other similar investments where HSBC holds the investments other than to generate a capital return.
Gains or losses on the derecognition of these 228 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 equity securities are not transferred to profit or loss.
Otherwise, equity securities are measured at fair value through profit or loss except for dividend income which is recognised in profit or loss.
g Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below and are so designated irrevocably at inception: the use of the designation removes or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch: a group of financial assets and liabilities or a group of financial liabilities is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy: and the financial liability contains one or more non-closely related embedded derivatives.
Designated financial assets are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when the rights to the cash flows expire or are transferred.
Designated financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on settlement date, and are normally derecognised when extinguished.
Subsequent changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis or Net income expense from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Under the above criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are: Long-term debt issues: The interest and or foreign exchange exposure on certain fixed-rate debt securities issued has been matched with the interest and or foreign exchange exposure on certain swaps as part of a documented risk management strategy.
Financial assets and financial liabilities under unit-linked and non-linked investment contracts: a contract under which HSBC does not accept significant insurance risk from another party is not classified as an insurance contract, other than investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF, but is accounted for as a financial liability.
Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts issued by insurance subsidiaries are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds.
If no fair value designation was made for the related assets, at least some of the assets would otherwise be measured at either fair value through other comprehensive income or amortised cost.
The related financial assets and liabilities are managed and reported to management on a fair value basis.
Designation at fair value of the financial assets and related liabilities allows changes in fair values to be recorded in the income statement and presented in the same line.
h Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, interest rates or other indices.
Derivatives are recognised initially and are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
This includes embedded derivatives in financial liabilities, which are bifurcated from the host contract when they meet the definition of a derivative on a stand-alone basis.
Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated at fair value, the contractual interest is shown in Interest expense together with the interest payable on the issued debt.
Hedge accounting When derivatives are not part of fair value designated relationships, if held for risk management purposes they are designated in hedge accounting relationships where the required criteria for documentation and hedge effectiveness are met.
HSBC uses these derivatives or, where allowed, other non-derivative hedging instruments in fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations as appropriate to the risk being hedged.
Fair value hedge Fair value hedge accounting does not change the recording of gains and losses on derivatives and other hedging instruments, but results in recognising changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk that would not otherwise be recognised in the income statement.
If a hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued: the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement on a recalculated effective interest rate, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case it is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments is recognised in other comprehensive income: the ineffective portion of the change in fair value of derivative hedging instruments that are part of a cash flow hedge relationship is recognised immediately in the income statement within Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis.
The accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the same periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
When a hedge relationship is discontinued, or partially discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income remains in equity until the forecast transaction is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to the income statement.
Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of gains and losses on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income: other gains and losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the disposal, or part disposal, of the foreign operation.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Non-qualifying hedges are derivatives entered into as economic hedges of assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting was not applied.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 229 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Critical accounting estimates and judgements As a result of the request received by the Financial Stability Board from the G20, a fundamental review and reform of the major interest rate benchmarks is under way across the worlds largest financial markets.
The process of replacing existing benchmark interbank offered rates Ibors with alternative risk-free rates RFRs is at different stages, and is progressing at different speeds, across several major jurisdictions.
There is therefore uncertainty as to the timing and the methods of transition for many financial products affected by these changes, and whether some existing benchmarks will continue to be supported in some way.
As a result of these developments, significant accounting judgement is involved in determining whether certain hedge accounting relationships that hedge the variability of cash flows and interest rate risk due to changes in Ibors continue to qualify for hedge accounting as at 31 December 2018.
Managements judgement is that those existing hedge accounting relationships continue to be supported at the 2018 year-end.
Even though there are plans to replace those rates with economically similar rates based on new RFRs over the next few years, there is widespread continued reliance on Ibors in market pricing structures for long-term products with maturities over the hedged horizons that extend beyond the timescales for replacing Ibors.
In addition there is a current absence of term structures on the new RFRs.
This judgement will be kept under review in future as markets based on the new RFRs develop, taking into consideration any specific accounting guidance that may be developed to deal with these unusual circumstances.
The IASB has commenced the due process for providing clarification on how the guidance for hedge accounting in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 9: Financial Instruments should be applied in these circumstances, which were not contemplated when the standards were published.
i Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets Expected credit losses ECL are recognised for loans and advances to banks and customers, non-trading reverse repurchase agreements, other financial assets held at amortised cost, debt instruments measured at FVOCI, and certain loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts.
At initial recognition, allowance or provision in the case of some loan commitments and financial guarantees is required for ECL resulting from default events that are possible within the next 12 months, or less, where the remaining life is less than 12 months 12-month ECL.
In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, allowance or provision is required for ECL resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of the financial instrument lifetime ECL.
Financial assets where 12- month ECL is recognised are considered to be stage 1: financial assets that are considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk are in stage 2: and financial assets for which there is objective evidence of impairment so are considered to be in default or otherwise credit impaired are in stage 3.
Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets POCI are treated differently, as set out below.
Credit impaired stage 3 HSBC determines that a financial instrument is credit impaired and in stage 3 by considering relevant objective evidence, primarily whether: contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due for more than 90 days: there are other indications that the borrower is unlikely to pay, such as when a concession has been granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial condition: and the loan is otherwise considered to be in default.
If such unlikeliness to pay is not identified at an earlier stage, it is deemed to occur when an exposure is 90 days past due, even where regulatory rules permit default to be defined based on 180 days past due.
Therefore the definitions of credit impaired and default are aligned as far as possible so that stage 3 represents all loans that are considered defaulted or otherwise credit impaired.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost amount, i. e. gross carrying amount less ECL allowance.
Write-off Financial assets and the related impairment allowances are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security.
In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier.
Renegotiation Loans are identified as renegotiated and classified as credit impaired when we modify the contractual payment terms due to significant credit distress of the borrower.
Renegotiated loans remain classified as credit impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows and retain the designation of renegotiated until maturity or derecognition.
A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement is made on substantially different terms, or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the renegotiated loan is a substantially different financial instrument.
Any new loans that arise following derecognition events in these circumstances are considered to be POCI and will continue to be disclosed as renegotiated loans.
Other than originated credit-impaired loans, all other modified loans could be transferred out of stage 3 if they no longer exhibit any evidence of being credit impaired and, in the case of renegotiated loans, there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows over the minimum observation period, and there are no other indicators of impairment.
These loans could be transferred to stage 1 or 2 based on the mechanism as described below by comparing the risk of a default occurring at the reporting date based on the modified contractual terms and the risk of a default occurring at initial recognition based on the original, unmodified contractual terms.
Any amount written off as a result of the modification of contractual terms would not be reversed.
Loan modifications that are not credit impaired Loan modifications that are not identified as renegotiated are considered to be commercial restructuring.
Where a commercial restructuring results in a modification whether legalised through an amendment to the existing terms or the issuance of a new loan contract such that HSBCs rights to the cash flows under the original contract have expired, the old loan is derecognised and the new loan is recognised at fair value.
The rights to cash flows are generally considered to have expired if the commercial restructure is at market rates and no payment-related concession has been provided.
230 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Significant increase in credit risk stage 2 An assessment of whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition is performed at each reporting period by considering the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument.
The assessment explicitly or implicitly compares the risk of default occurring at the reporting date compared with that at initial recognition, taking into account reasonable and supportable information, including information about past events, current conditions and future economic conditions.
The assessment is unbiased, probability-weighted, and to the extent relevant, uses forward-looking information consistent with that used in the measurement of ECL.
The analysis of credit risk is multifactor.
The determination of whether a specific factor is relevant and its weight compared with other factors depends on the type of product, the characteristics of the financial instrument and the borrower, and the geographical region.
Therefore, it is not possible to provide a single set of criteria that will determine what is considered to be a significant increase in credit risk, and these criteria will differ for different types of lending, particularly between retail and wholesale.
However, unless identified at an earlier stage, all financial assets are deemed to have suffered a significant increase in credit risk when 30 days past due.
In addition, wholesale loans that are individually assessed, typically corporate and commercial customers, and included on a watch or worry list, are included in stage 2.
For wholesale portfolios, the quantitative comparison assesses default risk using a lifetime probability of default PD which encompasses a wide range of information including the obligors customer risk rating CRR, macroeconomic condition forecasts and credit transition probabilities.
For origination CRRs up to 3.3, significant increase in credit risk is measured by comparing the average PD for the remaining term estimated at origination with the equivalent estimation at the reporting date.
The quantitative measure of significance varies depending on the credit quality at origination as follows: Origination CRR Significance trigger - PD to increase by 0.11.2 15bps 2.13.3 30bps For CRRs greater than 3.3 that are not impaired, a significant increase in credit risk is considered to have occurred when the origination PD has doubled.
The significance of changes in PD was informed by expert credit risk judgement, referenced to historical credit migrations and to relative changes in external market rates.
For loans originated prior to the implementation of IFRS 9, the origination PD does not include adjustments to reflect expectations of future macroeconomic conditions since these are not available without the use of hindsight.
In the absence of this data, origination PD must be approximated assuming through-the-cycle TTC PDs and TTC migration probabilities, consistent with the instruments underlying modelling approach and the CRR at origination.
For these loans, the quantitative comparison is supplemented with additional CRR deterioration-based thresholds, as set out in the table below: Additional significance criteria number of CRR grade notches deterioration Origination CRR required to identify as significant credit deterioration stage 2 or equal to 0.1 5 notches 1.14.2 4 notches 4.35.1 3 notches 5.27.1 2 notches 7.28.2 1 notch 8.3 0 notch Further information about the 23-grade scale used for CRR can be found on page 80.
For certain portfolios of debt securities where external market ratings are available and credit ratings are not used in credit risk management, the debt securities will be in stage 2 if their credit risk increases to the extent they are no longer considered investment grade.
Investment grade is where the financial instrument has a low risk of incurring losses, the structure has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near term, and adverse changes in economic and business conditions in the longer term may, but will not necessarily, reduce the ability of the borrower to fulfil their contractual cash flow obligations.
For retail portfolios, default risk is assessed using a reporting date 12-month PD derived from credit scores, which incorporates all available information about the customer.
This PD is adjusted for the effect of macroeconomic forecasts for periods longer than 12 months and is considered to be a reasonable approximation of a lifetime PD measure.
Retail exposures are first segmented into homogeneous portfolios, generally by country, product and brand.
Within each portfolio, the stage 2 accounts are defined as accounts with an adjusted 12-month PD greater than the average 12-month PD of loans in that portfolio 12 months before they become 30 days past due.
The expert credit risk judgement is that no prior increase in credit risk is significant.
This portfolio-specific threshold identifies loans with a PD higher than would be expected from loans that are performing as originally expected, and higher than what would have been acceptable at origination.
It therefore approximates a comparison of origination to reporting date PDs.
Unimpaired and without significant increase in credit risk stage 1 ECL resulting from default events that are possible within the next 12 months 12-month ECL are recognised for financial instruments that remain in stage 1.
Purchased or originated credit impaired Financial assets that are purchased or originated at a deep discount that reflects the incurred credit losses are considered to be POCI.
This population includes the recognition of a new financial instrument following a renegotiation where concessions have been granted for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty that otherwise would not have been considered.
The amount of change-in-lifetime ECL is recognised in profit or loss until the POCI is derecognised, even if the lifetime ECL are less than the amount of ECL included in the estimated cash flows on initial recognition.
Movement between stages Financial assets can be transferred between the different categories other than POCI depending on their relative increase in credit risk since initial recognition.
Financial instruments are transferred out of stage 2 if their credit risk is no longer considered to be significantly increased since initial recognition based on the assessments described above.
Except for renegotiated loans, financial instruments are transferred out of stage 3 when they no longer exhibit any evidence of credit impairment as described above.
Renegotiated loans that are not POCI will continue to be in stage 3 until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 231 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements of future cash flows, observed over a minimum one-year period and there are no other indicators of impairment.
For loans that are assessed for impairment on a portfolio basis, the evidence typically comprises a history of payment performance against the original or revised terms, as appropriate to the circumstances.
For loans that are assessed for impairment on an individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Measurement of ECL The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL are unbiased and probability-weighted, and incorporate all available information that is relevant to the assessment including information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future events and economic conditions at the reporting date.
In addition, the estimation of ECL should take into account the time value of money.
In general, HSBC calculates ECL using three main components: a probability of default, a loss given default LGD and the exposure at default EAD.
The 12-month ECL is calculated by multiplying the 12-month PD, LGD and EAD.
Lifetime ECL is calculated using the lifetime PD instead.
The 12-month and lifetime PDs represent the probability of default occurring over the next 12 months and the remaining maturity of the instrument respectively.
The EAD represents the expected balance at default, taking into account the repayment of principal and interest from the balance sheet date to the default event together with any expected drawdowns of committed facilities.
The LGD represents expected losses on the EAD given the event of default, taking into account, among other attributes, the mitigating effect of collateral value at the time it is expected to be realised and the time value of money.
HSBC leverages the Basel II IRB framework where possible, with recalibration to meet the differing IFRS 9 requirements as set out in the following table: Model Regulatory capital IFRS 9 Through the cycle represents long-run average PD throughout a Point in time based on current conditions, adjusted totake into full economic cycle account estimates of future conditions that will impact PD The definition of default includes a backstop of90 days past Default backstop of 90 days past due for all portfolios PD due, although this has been modified to 180 days past due for some portfolios, particularly UK and US mortgages EAD Cannot be lower than current balance Amortisation captured for term products Downturn LGD consistent losses expected to be suffered Expected LGD based on estimate of loss given default including during a severe but plausible economic downturn the expected impact of future economic conditions such as Regulatory floors may apply to mitigate risk of underestimating changes in value of collateral LGD downturn LGD due to lack of historical data No floors Discounted using cost of capital Discounted using the original effective interest rate of the loan All collection costs included Only costs associated with obtaining selling collateral included Other Discounted back from point of default to balance sheet date While 12-month PDs are recalibrated from Basel II models where possible, the lifetime PDs are determined by projecting the 12-month PD using a term structure.
For the wholesale methodology, the lifetime PD also takes into account credit migration, i. e. a customer migrating through the CRR bands over its life.
The ECL for wholesale stage 3 is determined on an individual basis using a discounted cash flow DCF methodology.
The expected future cash flows are based on the credit risk officers estimates as at the reporting date, reflecting reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections of future recoveries and expected future receipts of interest.
Collateral is taken into account if it is likely that the recovery of the outstanding amount will include realisation of collateral based on the estimated fair value of collateral at the time of expected realisation, less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral.
The cash flows are discounted at a reasonable approximation of the original effective interest rate.
For significant cases, cash flows under four different scenarios are probability-weighted by reference to the three economic scenarios applied more generally by the Group and the judgement of the credit risk officer in relation to the likelihood of the workout strategy succeeding or receivership being required.
For less significant cases, the effect of different economic scenarios and work-out strategies is approximated and applied as an adjustment to the most likely outcome.
Period over which ECL is measured Expected credit loss is measured from the initial recognition of the financial asset.
The maximum period considered when measuring ECL be it 12-month or lifetime ECL is the maximum contractual period over which HSBC is exposed to credit risk.
For wholesale overdrafts, credit risk management actions are taken no less frequently than on an annual basis and therefore this period is to the expected date of the next substantive credit review.
The date of the substantive credit review also represents the initial recognition of the new facility.
However, where the financial instrument includes both a drawn and undrawn commitment and the contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn commitment does not serve to limit HSBCs exposure to credit risk to the contractual notice period, the contractual period does not determine the maximum period considered.
Instead, ECL is measured over the period HSBC remains exposed to credit risk that is not mitigated by credit risk management actions.
This applies to retail overdrafts and credit cards, where the period is the average time taken for stage 2 exposures to default or close as performing accounts, determined on a portfolio basis and ranging from between two and six years.
In addition, for these facilities it is not possible to identify the ECL on the loan commitment component separately from the financial asset component.
As a result, the total ECL is recognised in the loss allowance for the financial asset unless the total ECL exceeds the gross carrying amount of the financial asset, in which case the ECL is recognised as a provision.
Forward-looking economic inputs HSBC will in general apply three forward-looking global economic scenarios determined with reference to external forecast distributions representative of our view of forecast economic conditions, the consensus economic scenario approach.
This approach is considered sufficient to calculate unbiased expected loss in most economic environments.
They represent a most likely outcome the Central scenario and two, less likely, outer scenarios referred to as the Upside and Downside scenarios.
The Central scenario is the basis for the annual operating planning process and, with regulatory modifications, will also be used in enterprise-wide stress tests.
The Upside and Downside scenarios are constructed following a standard process supported by a scenario narrative reflecting the Groups current top and emerging risks and by consulting external and internal subject matter experts.
The relationship between the outer scenarios and Central scenario will generally be fixed with the Central scenario being assigned a weighting of 80% and the Upside and Downside 232 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 scenarios 10% each, with the difference between the Central and outer scenarios in terms of economic severity being informed by the spread of external forecast distributions among professional industry forecasts.
The outer scenarios are economically plausible, internally consistent states of the world and will not necessarily be as severe as scenarios used in stress testing.
The period of forecasts is five years for the Central scenario.
Upside and Downside scenarios use distributional forecasts for the first two years, after which they converge to the Central forecasts.
The spread between the Central and outer scenarios is grounded on consensus distributions of projected gross domestic product of the following economies:UK, France, Hong Kong, mainland China, US and Canada.
The economic factors include, but are not limited to, gross domestic product, unemployment, interest rates, inflation and commercial property prices across all the countries and territories in which HSBC operates.
In general, the consequences of the assessment of credit risk and the resulting ECL outputs will be probability-weighted using the standard probability weights.
This probability weighting may be applied directly or the effect of the probability weighting determined on a periodic basis, at least annually, and then applied as an adjustment to the outcomes resulting from the central economic forecast.
The central economic forecast is updated quarterly.
HSBC recognises that the consensus economic scenario approach using three scenarios will be insufficient in certain economic environments.
Additional analysis may be requested at managements discretion, including the production of extra scenarios.
If conditions warrant, this could result in alternative scenarios and probability weightings being applied in arriving at the ECL.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements In determining ECL, management is required to exercise judgement in defining what is considered to be a significant increase in credit risk and in making assumptions and estimates to incorporate relevant information about past events, current conditions and forecasts of economic conditions.
Judgement has been applied in determining the lifetime and point of initial recognition of revolving facilities.
The PD, LGD and EAD models, which support these determinations are reviewed regularly in light of differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience, but given that IFRS 9 requirements have only just been applied, there has been little time available to make these comparisons.
Therefore, the underlying models and their calibration, including how they react to forward-looking economic conditions, remain subject to review and refinement.
This is particularly relevant for lifetime PDs, which have not been previously used in regulatory modelling, and for the incorporation of Upside scenarios, that have not generally been subject to experience gained through stress testing.
The exercise of judgement in making estimations requires the use of assumptions that are highly subjective and very sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes in economic and credit conditions across a large number of geographical areas.
Many of the factors have a high degree of interdependency and there is no single factor to which loan impairment allowances as a whole are sensitive.
The sections marked as audited on pages 94 to 101, Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates, set out the assumptions underlying the Central scenario and information about how scenarios are developed in relation to the Groups top and emerging risks and its judgements, informed by consensus forecasts of professional industry forecasters.
The sensitivity of ECL to different economic scenarios is illustrated by recalculating the ECL for selected portfolios as if 100% weighting had been assigned to each scenario.
j Insurance contracts A contract is classified as an insurance contract where HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event.
An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant.
In addition, HSBC issues investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF, which are also accounted for as insurance contracts as required by IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
Net insurance premium income Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance contracts to which they relate.
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movements in liabilities to policyholders Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration.
Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment.
Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance liabilities.
Death claims are recognised when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Liabilities under insurance contracts Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on local actuarial principles.
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value, which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Future profit participation on insurance contracts with DPF Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, liabilities for these contracts include provisions for the future discretionary benefits to policyholders.
These provisions reflect the actual performance of the investment portfolio to date and managements expectation of the future performance of the assets backing the contracts, as well as other experience factors such as mortality, lapses and operational efficiency, where appropriate.
The benefits to policyholders may be determined by the contractual terms, regulation, or past distribution policy.
Investment contracts with DPF While investment contracts with DPF are financial instruments, they continue to be treated as insurance contracts as required by IFRS 4.
The Group therefore recognises the premiums for these contracts as revenue and recognises as an expense the resulting increase in the carrying amount of the liability.
In the case of net unrealised investment gains on these contracts, whose discretionary benefits principally reflect the actual performance of the investment portfolio, the corresponding increase in the liabilities is recognised in either the income statement or other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised gains on the relevant assets.
In the case of net unrealised losses, a HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 233 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements deferred participating asset is recognised only to the extent that its recoverability is highly probable.
Movements in the liabilities arising from realised gains and losses on relevant assets are recognised in the income statement.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business HSBC recognises the value placed on insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF, which are classified as long-term and inforce at the balance sheet date, as an asset.
The asset represents the present value of the equity holders interest in the issuing insurance companies profits expected to emerge from these contracts written at the balance sheet date.
The present value of in-force business PVIF is determined by discounting those expected future profits using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses, and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to the respective contracts.
The PVIF incorporates allowances for both non-market risk and the value of financial options and guarantees.
The PVIF asset is presented gross of attributable tax in the balance sheet and movements in the PVIF asset are included in Other operating income on a gross of tax basis.
k Employee compensation and benefits Share-based payments HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as compensation for the provision of their services.
The vesting period for these schemes may commence before the legal grant date if the employees have started to render services in respect of the award before the legal grant date, where there is a shared understanding of the terms and conditions of the arrangement.
Expenses are recognised when the employee starts to render service to which the award relates.
Cancellations result from the failure to meet a non-vesting condition during the vesting period, and are treated as an acceleration of vesting recognised immediately in the income statement.
Failure to meet a vesting condition by the employee is not treated as a cancellation, and the amount of expense recognised for the award is adjusted to reflect the number of awards expected to vest.
Post-employment benefit plans HSBC operates a number of pension schemes including defined benefit, defined contribution and post-employment benefit schemes.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as the employees render service.
Defined benefit pension obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method.
The net charge to the income statement mainly comprises the service cost and the net interest on the net defined benefit asset or liability, and is presented in operating expenses.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset or liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
The net defined benefit asset or liability represents the present value of defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value of plan assets, after applying the asset ceiling test, where the net defined benefit surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The cost of obligations arising from other post-employment plans are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans.
l Tax Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the tax is recognised in the same statement as the related item appears.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year and on any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled.
Current and deferred tax are calculated based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The recognition of a deferred tax asset relies on an assessment of the probability and sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and ongoing tax planning strategies.
In the absence of a history of taxable profits, the most significant judgements relate to expected future profitability and to the applicability of tax planning strategies, including corporate reorganisations.
m Provisions, contingent liabilities and guarantees Provisions Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a present legal or constructive obligation that has arisen as a result of past events and for which a reliable estimate can be made.
234 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Critical accounting estimates and judgements Judgement is involved in determining whether a present obligation exists and in estimating the probability, timing and amount of any outflows.
Professional expert advice is taken on the assessment of litigation, property including onerous contracts and similar obligations.
Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters typically require a higher degree of judgement than other types of provisions.
When matters are at an early stage, accounting judgements can be difficult because of the high degree of uncertainty associated with determining whether a present obligation exists, and estimating the probability and amount of any outflows that may arise.
As matters progress, management and legal advisers evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions should be recognised, revising previous judgements and estimates as appropriate.
At more advanced stages, it is typically easier to make judgements and estimates around a better defined set of possible outcomes.
However, the amount provisioned can remain very sensitive to the assumptions used.
There could be a wide range of possible outcomes for any pending legal proceedings, investigations or inquiries.
As a result, it is often not practicable to quantify a range of possible outcomes for individual matters.
It is also not practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges of potential outcomes in aggregate for these types of provisions because of the diverse nature and circumstances of such matters and the wide range of uncertainties involved.
Provisions for customer remediation also require significant levels of estimation and judgement.
The amounts of provisions recognised depend on a number of different assumptions, such as the volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of inbound complaint volumes, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per customer complaint.
Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, and contingent liabilities related to legal proceedings or regulatory matters, are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is remote.
Financial guarantee contracts Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts that are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or present value of the fee receivable.
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees and similar contracts to other Group entities.
HSBC elects to account for certain guarantees as insurance contracts in HSBC Holdings financial statements, in which case they are measured and recognised as insurance liabilities.
This election is made on a contract-by-contract basis, and is irrevocable.
n Accounting policies applied to financial instruments prior to 1 January 2018 Financial instruments measured at amortised cost Loans and advances to banks and customers, held-to-maturity investments and most financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
If the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced, such as in the case of some leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the difference is deferred and recognised over the life of the loan as described in sub-section c above through the recognition of interest income, unless the loan becomes impaired.
When HSBC intends to hold the loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss.
Impairment of loans and advances Losses for impaired loans are recognised when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred.
Losses that may arise from future events are not recognised.
Individually assessed loans and advances The factors considered in determining whether a loan is individually significant for the purposes of assessing impairment include the size of the loan, the number of loans in the portfolio, the importance of the individual loan relationship and how this is managed.
Loans that are determined to be individually significant will be individually assessed for impairment, except when volumes of defaults and losses are sufficient to justify treatment under a collective methodology.
Loans considered as individually significant are typically to corporate and commercial customers, are for larger amounts and are managed on an individual basis.
For these loans, HSBC considers on a case-by-case basis at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired.
The determination of the realisable value of security is based on the most recently updated market value at the time the impairment assessment is performed.
The value is not adjusted for expected future changes in market prices, although adjustments are made to reflect local conditions such as forced sale discounts.
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan, which include expected future receipts of contractual interest, at the loans original effective interest rate or an approximation thereof, and comparing the resultant present value with the loans current carrying amount.
Collectively assessed loans and advances Impairment is assessed collectively to cover losses that have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment or for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, which are generally retail lending portfolios.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for a collective impairment assessment.
This assessment captures impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date that HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
When information becomes available that identifies losses on individual loans within a group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed individually.
Homogeneous groups of loans and advances Statistical methods are used to determine collective impairment losses for homogeneous groups of loans not considered individually significant.
The methods used to calculate collective allowances are set out below: HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 235 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology, which employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to reliably estimate the amount of the loans that will eventually be written off as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date.
Individual loans are grouped using ranges of past due days, and statistical estimates are made of the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various stages of delinquency and become irrecoverable.
Additionally, individual loans are segmented based on their credit characteristics, such as industry sector, loan grade or product.
In applying this methodology, adjustments are made to estimate the periods of time between a loss event occurring, for example because of a missed payment, and its confirmation through write-off known as the loss identification period.
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain highly developed markets, models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience, or a discounted cash flow model.
Where a basic formulaic approach is undertaken, the period between a loss event occurring and its identification is estimated by local management, and is typically between six and 12 months.
Write-off of loans and advances Loans and the related impairment allowance accounts are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly.
The write-back is recognised in the income statement.
Assets acquired in exchange for loans When non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are held for sale, these assets are recorded as Assets held for sale.
Renegotiated loans Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due, but are treated as up-to-date loans for measurement purposes once a minimum number of required payments has been received.
Where collectively assessed loan portfolios include significant levels of renegotiated loans, these loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for the purposes of collective impairment assessment to reflect their risk profile.
Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired.
The carrying amounts of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or derecognition.
A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement made on substantially different terms or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the renegotiated loan is substantially a different financial instrument.
Any new loans that arise following derecognition events will continue to be disclosed as renegotiated loans and are assessed for impairment as above.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price, or between the purchase and resale price is treated as interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement.
Contracts that are economically equivalent to reverse repurchase or repurchase agreements such as sales or purchases of debt securities entered into together with total return swaps with the same counterparty are accounted for similarly to, and presented together with, reverse repurchase or repurchase agreements.
Financial instruments measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised on the trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements to purchase them, and are normally derecognised when they are either sold or redeemed.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in other comprehensive income until the assets are either sold or become impaired.
Upon disposal, the cumulative gains or losses in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as Gains less losses from financial investments.
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are assessed at each balance sheet date for objective evidence of impairment.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement within Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions for debt instruments and within Gains less losses from financial investments for equities.
Available-for-sale debt securities In assessing objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date, HSBC considers all available evidence, including observable data or information about events specifically relating to the securities which may result in a shortfall in the recovery of future cash flows.
A subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement when there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of decreases in the estimated future cash flows.
Where there is no further objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, or the instrument is no longer impaired, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
236 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Available-for-sale equity securities A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity below its cost is objective evidence of impairment.
In assessing whether it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the original cost of the asset at initial recognition.
In assessing whether it is prolonged, the decline is evaluated against the continuous period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial recognition.
All subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument are treated as a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Subsequent decreases in the fair value of the available-for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement to the extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred.
Impairment losses recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial instruments designated at fair value Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below, and are so designated irrevocably at inception: the use of the designation removes or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch: when a group of financial assets, liabilities or both is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy: and where financial instruments contain one or more non-closely related embedded derivatives.
Subsequent changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value.
Under this criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are: Long-term debt issues The interest and or foreign exchange exposure on certain fixed rate debt securities issued has been matched with the interest and or foreign exchange exposure on certain swaps as part of a documented risk management strategy.
Financial assets and financial liabilities under unit-linked and non-linked investment contracts A contract under which HSBC does not accept significant insurance risk from another party is not classified as an insurance contract, other than investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF, but is accounted for as a financial liability.
See Note 1.2 j for investment contracts with DPF and contracts where HSBC accepts significant insurance risk.
Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts issued by insurance subsidiaries and the corresponding financial assets are designated at fair value.
Liabilities are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value, which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts.
The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management services are provided.
Comparatives for fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities have been restated to align with current year treatment.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 237 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Net income expense from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or 3 loss 2018 2017 2016 Footnotes $m $m $m Net income expense arising on: 1 Net trading activities 6,982 8,236 7,473 1 Other instruments managed on a fair value basis 2,549 190 48 2 Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis 9,531 8,426 7,521 Financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts 1,585 3,211 1,480 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 97 375 218 Net income from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, 1,488 2,836 1,262 measured at fair value through profit or loss 3 Changes in own credit spread on long-term debt 1,793 Derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBCs issued debt securities 626 343 1,604 Other changes in fair value 529 498 1,400 2 Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives 97 155 1,997 Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through 695 N A N A profit or loss Year ended 31 Dec 8,641 11,417 6,786 1 At 1 January 2018 we changed our accounting policy for financial liabilities that contain both deposit and derivative components.
As a result, net income from these instruments is reported in Other instruments managed on a fair value basis rather than Trading activities.
Comparative periods have not been re-presented.
Refer to Note 1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies for further details.
2 Prior to 2018, foreign exchange exposure on some financial instruments designated at fair value was presented in the same line in the income statement as the underlying fair value movement on these instruments.
In 2018, we grouped the presentation of the entire effect of foreign exchange exposure in profit or loss and presented it within Net trading activities in Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis.
Comparative data has been represented.
There is no net impact on Total operating income and the impact on Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives is $ 517 m in 2017 and $1,978m in 2016.
3 From 1 January 2017, HSBC Holdings plc adopted, in its consolidated financial statements, the requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value.
As a result, changes in fair value attributable to changes in own credit risk are presented in other comprehensive income with the remaining effect presented in profit or loss.
HSBC Holdings 2018 2017 2016 $m $m $m Net income expense arising on: - trading activities 176 392 119 - other instruments managed at on a fair value basis 421 211 Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis 245 181 119 derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings issued debt securities 337 292 642 other changes in fair value 260 189 593 Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives 77 103 49 Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or 43 loss Year ended 31 Dec 211 78 70 4 Insurance business Net insurance premium income Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts with 1 insurance insurance DPF Total $m $m $m $m Gross insurance premium income 8,616 422 2,300 11,338 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 672 7 679 Year ended 31 Dec 2018 7,944 415 2,300 10,659 Gross insurance premium income 8,424 351 2,027 10,802 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 1,016 7 1,023 Year ended 31 Dec 2017 7,408 344 2,027 9,779 Gross insurance premium income 8,036 675 1,877 10,588 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 629 8 637 Year ended 31 Dec 2016 7,407 667 1,877 9,951 1 Discretionary participation features.
238 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts with 1 DPF insurance insurance Total $m $m $m $m Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 8,943 446 1,724 10,221 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 3,852 1,088 1,869 6,809 movement in liabilities 5,091 1,534 145 3,412 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 605 191 414 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 311 181 492 movement in liabilities 294 372 78 Year ended 31 Dec 2018 8,338 255 1,724 9,807 Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 8,894 1,413 2,901 13,208 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 2,883 1,044 2,002 5,929 movement in liabilities 6,011 369 899 7,279 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 942 65 877 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 297 223 520 movement in liabilities 645 288 357 Year ended 31 Dec 2017 7,952 1,478 2,901 12,331 Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 8,778 1,321 2,409 12,508 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 2,828 749 2,017 5,594 movement in liabilities 5,950 572 392 6,914 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 560 78 638 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 112 14 126 movement in liabilities 448 64 512 Year ended 31 Dec 2016 8,218 1,243 2,409 11,870 1 Discretionary participation features.
Liabilities under insurance contracts Investment Non-linked Linked life 1 insurance insurance contracts with DPF Total Footnotes $m $m $m $m Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 1 Jan 2018 52,112 7,548 26,007 85,667 Impact on transition to IFRS 9 69 69 Claims and benefits paid 3,852 1,088 1,869 6,809 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 8,943 446 1,724 10,221 2 Exchange differences and other movements 149 225 1,604 1,680 Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2018 57,283 5,789 24,258 87,330 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts 2,438 68 2,506 Net liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2018 54,845 5,721 24,258 84,824 Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 1 Jan 2017 46,043 6,949 22,281 75,273 Claims and benefits paid 2,883 1,044 2,002 5,929 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 8,894 1,413 2,901 13,208 2 Exchange differences and other movements 58 230 2,827 3,115 Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2017 52,112 7,548 26,007 85,667 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts 2,203 268 2,471 Net liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2017 49,909 7,280 26,007 83,196 1 Discretionary participation features.
2 Exchange differences and other movements includes movements in liabilities arising from net unrealised investment gains recognised in other comprehensive income.
The key factors contributing to the movement in liabilities to policyholders included movements in the market value of assets supporting policyholder liabilities, death claims, surrenders, lapses, liabilities to policyholders created at the initial inception of the policies, the declaration of bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 239 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements 5 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after the following items: 2018 2017 2016 Footnotes $m $m $m Income Interest recognised on impaired financial assets 263 261 574 1 Interest recognised on financial assets measured at amortised cost 42,130 N A N A 1 Interest recognised on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 7,020 N A N A Expense Interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on financial liabilities held for trading or designated or otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 16,972 10,912 11,858 Payments under lease and sublease agreements 879 936 969 minimum lease payments 862 911 945 contingent rents and sublease payments 17 25 24 UK bank levy 964 916 922 Restructuring provisions 73 204 415 Gains losses Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities N A 98 36 Gains losses recognised on assets held for sale 27 195 206 Loss on net monetary position 136 Gain loss on disposal of operations in Brazil 15 19 1,743 Change in expected credit loss charges and other credit impairment charges 1,767 N A N A loans and advances to banks and customers 1,896 N A N A loans commitments and guarantees 3 N A N A other financial assets 21 N A N A debt instruments measured at fair value though other comprehensive income 105 N A N A Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions N A 1,769 3,400 net impairment charge on loans and advances N A 1,992 3,350 release of impairment on available-for-sale debt securities N A 190 63 other credit risk provisions N A 33 113 External net operating income is attributed to countries and territories on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds: 2018 2017 2016 Footnotes $m $m $m 2 External net operating income by country territory 53,780 51,445 47,966 UK 10,340 11,057 9,495 Hong Kong 17,162 14,992 12,864 US 4,379 4,573 5,094 France 1,898 2,203 2,571 other countries 20,001 18,620 17,942 1 Interest revenue calculated using the effective interest method comprises interest recognised on financial assets measured at either amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income.
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue.
6 Employee compensation and benefits 2018 2017 2016 $m $m $m Wages and salaries 14,751 15,227 15,735 Social security costs 1,490 1,419 1,312 Post-employment benefits 1,132 669 1,042 Year ended 31 Dec 17,373 17,315 18,089 240 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by global business Footnotes 2018 2017 2016 Retail Banking and Wealth Management 135,239 134,021 137,234 Commercial Banking 48,757 46,716 45,912 Global Banking and Markets 48,990 49,100 47,623 Global Private Banking 8,206 7,817 8,322 1 Corporate Centre 1,658 7,134 7,842 Year ended 31 Dec 242,850 244,788 246,933 1 The reduction in the average number of people employed was due to the completion of the cost to achieve transformation programme at the end of 2017.
Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by geographical region 2018 2017 2016 Europe 67,007 70,301 71,196 Asia 127,992 125,004 122,282 Middle East and North Africa 9,798 10,408 12,021 North America 17,350 18,610 20,353 Latin America 20,703 20,465 21,081 Year ended 31 Dec 242,850 244,788 246,933 Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to income statement charge 2018 2017 2016 $m $m $m Total incentive awards approved for the current year 3,473 3,303 3,035 Less: deferred bonuses awarded, expected to be recognised in future periods 351 337 323 Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year 3,122 2,966 2,712 Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 322 336 371 Other 70 78 128 Income statement charge for incentive awards 3,374 3,224 2,955 Year in which income statement is expected to reflect deferred bonuses Charge recognised Expected charge 2018 2017 2016 2019 2020 and beyond $m $m $m $m $m Variable compensation from 2018 bonus pool 150 149 202 Variable compensation from 2017 bonus pool 180 162 60 29 Variable compensation from 2016 bonus pool and earlier 142 336 320 111 85 Total 472 498 320 320 316 Cash awards 169 184 114 102 113 Equity awards 303 314 206 218 203 Share-based payments Wages and salaries includes the effect of share-based payments arrangements, of which $450m were equity settled 2017: $500m: 2016: $534m, as follows: 2018 2017 2016 $m $m $m Restricted share awards 499 520 591 Savings-related and other share award option plans 23 26 33 Year ended 31 Dec 522 546 624 HSBC share awards Award Policy Deferred share awards An assessment of performance over the relevant period endingon 31 December is used to determine the amount including annual incentive ofthe award to be granted.
awards, LTI awards Deferred awards generally require employees to remain in employment over the vesting period and are not subject to delivered in shares and performance conditions after the grant date.
Group Performance Share Deferred share awards generally vest over a period of three, five or seven years.
Plans GPSP Vested shares may be subject to a retention requirement post-vesting.
GPSP awards are retained until cessation of employment.
Awards granted from 2010 onwards are subject to a malus provision prior to vesting.
Awards granted to Material Risk Takers from 2015 onwards aresubject to clawback post-vesting.
International Employee The plan was first introduced in Hong Kong in 2013 and now includes employees based in 27 jurisdictions.
Share Purchase Plan Shares are purchased in the market each quarter up to a maximum value of 750, or the equivalent in local currency.
ShareMatch Matching awards are added at a ratio of one free share for every three purchased.
Matching awards vest subject to continued employment and the retention of the purchased shares for a maximum period of two years and nine months.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 241 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Movement on HSBC share awards 2018 2017 Number Number 000s 000s Restricted share awards outstanding at 1 Jan 104,525 123,166 Additions during the year 61,569 62,044 Released in the year 67,899 76,051 Forfeited in the year 3,298 4,634 Restricted share awards outstanding at 31 Dec 94,897 104,525 Weighted average fair value of awards granted $ 7.66 7.09 HSBC share option plans Main plans Policy Savings-related share Two plans: the UK Plan and the International Plan.
The last grant of options under the International Plan was in 2012. option plans Sharesave From 2014, eligible employees could save up to 500 per month with the option to use the savings to acquire shares.
Exercisable within six months following either the third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of a three-year or five-year contract, respectively.
The exercise price is set at a 20% 2017: 20% discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation.
Calculation of fair values The fair values of share options are calculated using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of a share award is based on the share price at the date of the grant.
Movement on HSBC share option plans Savings-related share option plans 1 Number WAEP Footnotes 000s Outstanding at 1 Jan 2018 64,670 4.49 2 Granted during the year 20,501 5.45 3 Exercised during the year 23,260 4.14 Expired during the year 3,148 5.20 Forfeited during the year 1,698 4.53 Outstanding at 31 Dec 2018 57,065 4.92 Of which exercisable 3,513 4.09 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 2.59 Outstanding at 1 Jan 2017 70,027 4.30 2 Granted during the year 10,447 5.96 3 Exercised during the year 9,503 4.83 Expired during the year 3,902 4.45 Forfeited during the year 2,399 4.27 Outstanding at 31 Dec 2017 64,670 4.49 Of which exercisable 1,129 5.00 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 2.42 1 Weighted average exercise price.
2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was $1.40 2017: $1.29.
3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was $8.28 2017: $9.93.
Post-employment benefit plans The Group operates pension plans throughout the world for its employees.
Pension risk management on page 87 contains details of the policies and practices associated with these pension plans.
Some are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the principal plan.
HSBCs balance sheet includes the net surplus or deficit, being the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the discounted value of scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date for each plan.
Surpluses are only recognised to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or through potential future refunds from the schemes.
In assessing whether a surplus is recoverable, HSBC has considered its current right to obtain a future refund or a reduction in future contributions.
The principal plan The principal plan has a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
The defined benefit section was closed to future benefit accrual in 2015, with defined benefits earned by employees at that date continuing to be linked to their salary while they remain employed by HSBC.
The plan is overseen by an independent corporate trustee, who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the plan.
Its assets are held separately from the assets of the Group.
The investment strategy of the plan is to hold the majority of assets in bonds, with the remainder in a diverse range of investments.
It also includes some interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate risk and inflation swaps to reduce inflation risk.
The latest funding valuation of the plan at 31 December 2016 was carried out by Colin G Singer, of Willis Towers Watson Limited, who is a Fellow of the UK Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
At that date, the market value of the plans combined assets was 30.2bn $37.2bn, and this exceeded the value placed on its liabilities on an ongoing basis by 1.3bn $1.6bn, 242 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 giving a funding level of 104%.
These figures include all sections of the plan and defined contribution assets amounting to 3.1bn $3.8bn.
The main differences between the assumptions used for assessing the defined benefit liabilities for this funding valuation and those used for IAS 19 are more prudent assumptions for discount rate, inflation rate and life expectancy.
Although the plan was in surplus at the valuation date, HSBC continues to make further contributions to the plan to support a lower-risk investment strategy over the longer term.
The remaining contributions are 64m $82m in 2019, and 160m $204m in each of 2020 and 2021.
To meet the requirements of the Banking Reform Act, the main employer of the plan changed from HSBC Bank plc to HSBC UK Bank plc with effect from 1 July 2018, with additional support from HSBC Holdings plc.
At the same time, non-ring-fenced entities including HSBC Bank plc exited the section of the plan for ring-fenced entities and joined a newly created section for the future defined benefit and defined contribution pension benefits of their employees.
These changes have not materially affected the overall funding position of the plan.
The actuary also assessed the value of the liabilities if the plan were to be stopped and an insurance company asked to secure all future pension payments.
This is generally larger than the amount needed on the ongoing basis described above because an insurance company would use more prudent assumptions and include an explicit allowance for the future administrative expenses ofthe plan.
Under this approach, the amount of assets needed was estimated to be 38bn $47bn at 31December 2016.
Guaranteed minimum pension GMP equalisation On 26 October 2018, the High Court of Justice of England and Wales issued a judgment in a claim between Lloyds Banking Group Pension Trustees Limited as claimant and Lloyds Bank plc and others as defendants regarding the rights of men and women to equal treatment in relation to their benefits from certain pension schemes.
The judgment concluded that the claimant is under a duty to amend the schemes in order to equalise benefits for men and women in relation to GMP benefits.
The judgment also provided comments on the method to be adopted in order to equalise benefits, on the period during which a member can claim in respect of previously underpaid benefits, and on what should be done in relation to benefits that have been transferred into, and out of, the relevant schemes.
The issues determined by the judgment arise in relation to many other occupational pension schemes and consequently will result in an increase in the principal plans liabilities.
We have estimated the financial effect of equalising benefits in respect of GMPs, and any potential conversion of GMPs into non-GMP benefits, to be an approximate 0.8% increase in the plans liabilities, or 177m $226m on the IAS19 basis as at 31 December 2018.
This has been recognised as a past service cost in profit and loss.
The estimate was performed based on Method C2, which compares the accumulated benefits, with interest, payable to a member on their own sex and an opposite sex basis and each year pays the amount necessary to ensure the higher of the two accumulated amounts has been paid.
Income statement charge 2018 2017 2016 $m $m $m Defined benefit pension plans 355 100 218 Defined contribution pension plans 756 603 783 Pension plans 1,111 703 1,001 Defined benefit and contribution healthcare plans 21 34 41 Year ended 31 Dec 1,132 669 1,042 Net assets liabilities recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans Present value of defined Effect of Fair value of benefit limit on plan plan assets obligations surpluses Total $m $m $m $m Defined benefit pension plans 42,799 36,583 35 6,181 Defined benefit healthcare plans 110 524 414 At 31 Dec 2018 42,909 37,107 35 5,767 Total employee benefit liabilities within Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2,167 Total employee benefit assets within Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 7,934 Defined benefit pension plans 47,265 40,089 37 7,139 Defined benefit healthcare plans 124 663 539 At 31 Dec 2017 47,389 40,752 37 6,600 Total employee benefit liabilities within Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2,152 Total employee benefit assets within Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 8,752 HSBC Holdings Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings employees in 2018 amounted to $37m 2017: $54m.
The average number of persons employed during 2018 was 43 2017: 55.
Employees who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme.
HSBC Holdings pays contributions to such plans for its own employees in accordance with the schedules of contributions determined by the trustees of the plans and recognises these contributions as an expense as they fall due.
From 1 July 2016 employment costs of most employees are recognised by the ServCo group and the ServCo group started providing services to HSBC Holdings.
HSBC Holdings recogniseda management charge of $2,428m 2017: $2,240m for these services, which is included under General and administrative expenses.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 243 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Defined benefit pension plans Net asset liability under defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined Effect of the asset Net defined benefit Fair value of plan assets benefit obligations ceiling asset liability Principal Other Principal Other Principal Other Principal Other plan plans plan plans plan plans plan plans $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2018 38,265 9,000 30,126 9,963 37 8,139 1,000 Current service cost 66 157 66 157 Past service cost and gains losses fromsettlements 280 8 280 8 Service cost 346 149 346 149 Net interest income cost on the net defined benefit asset liability 970 220 759 249 1 211 30 Remeasurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 1,501 568 1,180 413 321 155 return on plan assets excluding interest income 1,501 568 1,501 568 actuarial gains losses 1,051 505 1,051 505 other changes 129 92 129 92 Exchange differences 2,038 151 1,601 86 3 437 62 Contributions by HSBC 197 128 197 128 normal 197 128 197 128 special Contributions by employees 26 26 Benefits paid 1,138 538 1,138 544 6 Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan 51 22 51 22 At 31 Dec 2018 34,704 8,095 27,261 9,322 35 7,443 1,262 Present value of defined benefit obligation relating to: actives 5,337 4,443 deferreds 8,200 1,589 pensioners 13,724 3,290 At 1 Jan 2017 33,442 8,955 29,279 10,468 24 4,163 1,537 Current service cost 65 160 65 160 Past service cost and gains losses fromsettlements 833 231 1,051 231 218 Service cost 833 296 891 296 58 Net interest income cost on the net defined benefit asset liability 864 272 750 300 1 114 29 Remeasurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 1,410 784 1,730 486 9 3,140 289 return on plan assets excluding interest income 1,410 784 1,410 784 actuarial gains losses 954 491 9 954 500 other changes 776 5 776 5 Exchange differences 3,292 239 2,723 306 3 569 70 Contributions by HSBC 449 236 449 236 normal 58 215 58 215 special 391 21 391 21 Contributions by employees 27 27 Benefits paid 1,143 663 1,143 716 53 Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan 49 17 49 17 At 31 Dec 2017 38,265 9,000 30,126 9,963 37 8,139 1,000 Present value of defined benefit obligation relating to: actives 5,837 5,084 deferreds 8,745 1,663 pensioners 15,544 3,216 HSBC expects to make $312m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2019.
Benefits expected to be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years thereafter, are as follows: Benefits expected to be paid from plans 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 - 2028 Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m $m 1 The principal plan 820 856 911 981 1,004 5,248 1 Other plans 442 517 522 514 469 2,286 1 The duration of the defined benefit obligation is 17.0 years for the principal plan under the disclosure assumptions adopted 2017: 17.4 years and 13.3 years for all other plans combined 2017: 12.9 years.
Post-employment defined benefit plans principal actuarial financial assumptions HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans local actuaries, on the basis of current average yields of high-quality AA-rated or equivalent debt instruments with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
Key actuarial assumptions for the principal plan Rate of increase Rate of pay Discount rate Inflation rate for pensions increase % % % % UK At 31 Dec 2018 2.80 3.40 3.10 3.65 At 31 Dec 2017 2.60 3.40 3.10 3.88 At 31 Dec 2016 2.50 3.50 3.20 4.00 Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 65 for the principal plan Mortality Life expectancy at age 65 for Life expectancy at age 65 for table a male member currently: a female member currently: Aged 65 Aged 45 Aged 65 Aged 45 UK 1 At 31 Dec 2018 SAPS S2 21.6 22.9 24.1 25.6 2 At 31 Dec 2017 SAPS S2 22.2 23.6 24.4 25.9 1 Self-administered pension scheme SAPS S2 table males: 'All pensioners' version: females: 'Normal pensions' version with a multiplier of 1.05 for male and 1.01 for female pensioners.
Improvements are projected in accordance with the continuous mortality investigation CMI core projection model 2016 with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum.
Separate tables assuming lighter mortality have been applied to higher-paid pensioners.
2 Self-administered pension scheme SAPS S2 table males: 'All pensioners' version: females: 'Normal pensions' version with a multiplier of 0.98 for both male and female pensioners.
The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan Impact on HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme obligation Financial impact of increase Financial impact of decrease 2018 2017 2018 2017 $m $m $m $m Discount rate increase decrease of 0.25% 1,097 1,246 1,170 1,333 Inflation rate increase decrease of 0.25% 734 850 724 837 Pension payments and deferred pensions increase decrease of 0.25% 1,172 1,077 1,105 1,021 Pay increase decrease of 0.25% 55 62 56 61 Change in mortality increase of 1 year 1,494 1,332 N A N A Directors emoluments Details of Directors emoluments, pensions and their interests are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on page 172.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 245 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements 7 Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 2016 Footnotes $m $m $m 1 Audit fees payable to PwC 86.6 84.8 65.7 Other audit fees payable 0.9 1.2 1.6 Year ended 31 Dec 87.5 86.0 67.3 6 Fees payable by HSBC to PwC 2018 2017 2016 Footnotes $m $m $m 2 Fees for HSBC Holdings statutory audit 16.4 15.1 14.0 Fees for other services provided to HSBC 103.1 114.6 97.1 3 audit of HSBCs subsidiaries 70.2 69.7 51.7 4 audit-related assurance services 11.4 10.8 17.8 5 other assurance services 13.5 25.2 14.9 taxation compliance services 1.4 1.2 1.9 taxation advisory services 0.1 0.4 5 other non-audit services 6.5 7.7 10.4 Year ended 31 Dec 119.5 129.7 111.1 No fees were payable by HSBC to PwC as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit services and services related to litigation, recruitment and remuneration.
Fees payable by HSBCs associated pension schemes to PwC 2018 2017 2016 $000 $000 $000 Audit of HSBCs associated pension schemes 172 260 208 Audit-related assurance services 4 4 Year ended 31 Dec 172 264 212 1 The 2016 audit fees payable amount includes $4.2m related to the prior year audit in respect of overruns.
2 Fees payable to PwC for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
They include amounts payable for services relating to the consolidation returns of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries, which are clearly identifiable as being in support of the Group audit opinion.
3 Fees payable for the statutory audit of the financial statements of HSBCs subsidiaries, including the 2017 and 2016 changes in scope and additional procedures performed due to the technology systems and data access controls matter as described on page 207.
4 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews and work performed related to the implementation of IFRS 9.
5 Including other permitted services relating to advisory, corporate finance transactions, etc.
6 The 2017 and 2016 comparative data has been re-presented to align to the current year presentation of fees payable.
The totals remain unchanged for both 2017 and 2016.
No fees were payable by HSBCs associated pension schemes to PwC as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance transactions, valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment and remuneration, and information technology.
In addition to the above, the estimated fees paid to PwC by third parties associated with HSBC amount to $14.0m 2017: $3.5m: 2016: $4.3m.
In these cases, HSBC is connected with the contracting party and may therefore be involved in appointing PwC.
These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns that borrow from HSBC.
Fees payable for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the HSBC Group.
8 Tax Tax expense 2018 2017 2016 Footnotes $m $m $m 1 Current tax 4,195 4,264 3,669 for this year 4,158 4,115 3,525 adjustments in respect of prior years 37 149 144 Deferred tax 670 1,024 3 origination and reversal of temporary differences 656 228 111 effect of changes in tax rates 17 1,337 4 adjustments in respect of prior years 3 85 112 Year ended 31 Dec 4,865 5,288 3,666 1 Current tax included Hong Kong profits tax of $1,532m 2017: $1,350m: 2016: $1,118m.
The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the profits of subsidiaries assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% 2017: 16.5%: 2016: 16.5%.
246 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Tax reconciliation The tax charged to the income statement differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the UK corporation tax rate as follows: 2018 2017 2016 $m % $m % $m % Profit before tax 19,890 17,167 7,112 Tax expense Taxation at UK corporation tax rate of 19.00% 2017: 19.25%: 2016: 20.0% 3,779 19.00 3,305 19.25 1,422 20.00 Impact of differently taxed overseas profits in overseas locations 264 1.3 407 2.3 43 0.6 Items increasing tax charge in 2018: local taxes and overseas withholding taxes 437 2.2 618 3.6 434 6.1 UK tax losses not recognised 435 2.2 70 0.4 305 4.3 other permanent disallowables 396 2.0 400 2.3 438 6.2 UK banking surcharge 229 1.1 136 0.8 199 2.8 bank levy 191 1.0 180 1.0 170 2.4 non-deductible regulatory settlements 153 0.8 132 0.8 20 0.3 impacts of hyperinflation 78 0.4 adjustments in respect of prior period liabilities 34 0.2 64 0.4 256 3.6 non-UK tax losses not recognised 32 0.2 33 0.2 147 2.1 change in tax rates 17 0.1 49 0.3 4 0.1 non-deductible UK customer compensation 16 0.1 166 1.0 162 2.3 deferred tax remeasurement due to US federal tax rate reduction 1,288 7.5 non-deductible goodwill write-down 648 9.1 non-deductible loss and taxes suffered on Brazil disposal 464 6.5 Items reducing tax charge in 2018: non-taxable income and gains 691 3.5 766 4.4 577 8.1 effect of profits in associates and joint ventures 492 2.5 481 2.8 461 6.5 other items 13 0.1 other deferred tax temporary differences previously not recognised 49 0.3 Year ended 31 Dec 4,865 24.5 5,288 30.8 3,666 51.6 The Groups profits are taxed at different rates depending on the country or territory in which the profits arise.
The key applicable tax rates for 2018 include Hong Kong 16.5%, the US 21% and the UK 19%.
If the Groups profits were taxed at the statutory rates of the countries in which the profits arose, then the tax rate for the year would have been 20.30% 2017: 21.15%.
The effective tax rate for the year was 24.5% 2017: 30.8%.
The effective tax rate for 2018 was significantly lower than for 2017 as 2017 included a charge of $1.3bn relating to the remeasurement of US deferred tax balances to reflect the reduction in the US federal tax rate to 21% from 2018.
Accounting for taxes involves some estimation because the tax law is uncertain and its application requires a degree of judgement, which authorities may dispute.
Liabilities are recognised based on best estimates of the probable outcome, taking into account external advice where appropriate.
We do not expect significant liabilities to arise in excess of the amounts provided.
HSBC only recognises current and deferred tax assets where recovery is probable.
2 After netting off balances within countries, the balances as disclosed in the accounts are as follows: deferred tax assets $4,450m 2017: $4,676m and deferred tax liabilities $2,619m 2017: $1,982m.
In applying judgement in recognising deferred tax assets, management has critically assessed all available information, including future business profit projections and the track record of meeting forecasts.
The net deferred tax asset of $1.8bn 2017: $2.7bn includes $3.0bn 2017: $3.2bn of deferred tax assets relating to the US, of which $1bn relates to US tax losses that expire in 1519 years.
Management expects the US deferred tax asset to be substantially recovered in six to seven years, with the majority recovered in the first five years.
The most recent financial forecasts approved by management covers a five-year period and the forecasts have been extrapolated beyond five years by assuming that performance remains constant after the fifth year.
US tax reform enacted in late 2017 and effective from 2018 included a reduction in the federal rate of tax from 35% to 21% and the introduction of a base erosion anti-abuse tax.
The US deferred tax asset at 31 December 2017 was calculated using the rate of 21%.
The remeasurement of the deferred tax asset due to the reduction in tax rate resulted in charges of $1.3bn to the income statement and $0.3bn to other comprehensive income during 2017.
The impact of the base erosion anti-abuse tax is currently uncertain, and will depend on the finalisation of regulatory guidance and the actions management may take.
It is not currently expected that the base erosion antiabuse tax will have a material impact on the Groups future tax charges.
Unrecognised deferred tax The amount of gross temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was $8.9bn 2017: $18.1bn.
These amounts included unused state losses arising in the Groups US operations of $0.8bn 2017: $12.3bn.
Of the total amounts unrecognised, $7.0bn 2017: $4.8bn had no expiry date, $1.3bn 2017: $0.8bn was scheduled to expire within 10 years and the remaining balance is expected to expire after 10 years.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Groups investments in subsidiaries and branches where HSBC is able to control the timing of remittance or other realisation and where remittance or realisation is not probable in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate temporary differences relating to unrecognised deferred tax liabilities arising on investments in subsidiaries and branches is $13.2bn 2017: $12.1bn and the corresponding unrecognised deferred tax liability is $0.9bn 2017: $0.8bn.
2 Discretionary coupons are paid semi-annually on the perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities, in denominations of each securitys issuance currency 1,000 per security.
3 Further details of these securities can be found in Note 32.
After the end of the year, the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2018 of $0.21 per ordinary share, a distribution of approximately $4,205m.
The fourth interim dividend will be payable on 8 April 2019 to holders on the Principal Register in the UK, the Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register or the Bermuda Overseas Branch Register on 22February 2019.
No liability was recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2018.
On 4 January 2019, HSBC paid a coupon on its 1,250m subordinated capital securities, representing a total distribution of 30m $34m.
On 17 January 2019, HSBC paid a coupon on its $1,500m subordinated capital securities issued at 5.625% of $28.125 per security, a distribution of$42m.
No liability was recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2018 in respect of these coupon payments.
10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held.
Diluted earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 249 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 2018 2017 2016 $m $m $m Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 13,727 10,798 2,479 Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity 90 90 90 Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity 1,029 1,025 1,090 Year ended 31 Dec 12,608 9,683 1,299 Basic and diluted earnings per share 2018 2017 2016 Number Per Number Per Number Per Profit of shares share Profit of shares share Profit of shares share Footnotes $m millions $ $m millions $ $m millions $ 1 Basic 12,608 19,896 0.63 9,683 19,972 0.48 1,299 19,753 0.07 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 87 100 92 1 Diluted 12,608 19,983 0.63 9,683 20,072 0.48 1,299 19,845 0.07 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding basic or assuming dilution diluted.
The number of anti-dilutive employee share options excluded from the weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares is nil 2017: nil: 2016: 10m.
11 Trading assets 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m Treasury and other eligible bills 22,674 17,532 Debt securities 130,539 107,486 Equity securities 60,896 99,260 Trading securities 214,109 224,278 1, 2 Loans and advances to banks 10,425 26,057 1, 2 Loans and advances to customers 13,596 37,660 3 Year ended 31 Dec 238,130 287,995 1 Loans and advances to banks and customers include reverse repos, stock borrowing and other accounts.
2 Settlement accounts, cash collateral and margin receivables included within 'Loans and advances to banks' and 'Loans and advances to customers' were reclassified from Trading assets to Other assets on 1 January 2018 and comparative data was not restated.
This reclassification was in accordance with IFRS 9.
3 Information regarding the effects of adoption of IFRS 9 can be found in Note 37.
1 Trading Securities 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m 2 US Treasury and US Government agencies 34,664 15,995 UK Government 9,710 9,540 Hong Kong Government 10,772 10,070 Other governments 66,530 58,858 3 Asset-backed securities 3,351 2,986 Corporate debt and other securities 28,186 27,569 Equity securities 60,896 99,260 At 31 Dec 214,109 224,278 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of $18,918m 2017: $18,585m, of which $2,367m 2017: $906m are guaranteed by various governments.
2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government.
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies.
12 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Control framework Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the risk taker.
Where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price determination or validation is used.
For inactive markets, HSBC sources alternative market information, with greater weight given to information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
Examples of the factors considered are price observability, instrument comparability, consistency of data sources, underlying data accuracy and timing of prices.
For fair values determined using valuation models, the control framework includes development or validation by independent support functions of the model logic, inputs, model outputs and adjustments.
Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence before becoming operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis.
250 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Changes in fair value are generally subject to a profit and loss analysis process and are disaggregated into high-level categories including portfolio changes, market movements and other fair value adjustments.
The majority of financial instruments measured at fair value are in GB&M.
GB&Ms fair value governance structure comprises its Finance function, Valuation Committees and a Valuation Committee Review Group.
Finance is responsible for establishing procedures governing valuation and ensuring fair values are in compliance with accounting standards.
The fair values are reviewed by the Valuation Committees, which consist of independent support functions.
These committees are overseen by the Valuation Committee Review Group, which considers all material subjective valuations.
Financial liabilities measured at fair value In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific instrument.
When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are either based on quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument or are estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments.
In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of applying the credit spread that is appropriate to HSBCs liabilities.
The change in fair value of issued debt securities attributable to the Groups own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar securities for the same issuer.
Then, using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a Libor-based discount curve.
The difference in the valuations is attributable to the Groups own credit spread.
This methodology is applied consistently across all securities.
Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instruments are included within trading liabilities and are measured at fair value.
Thecredit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC recorded in other comprehensive income, reverse over the contractual life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
Fair value hierarchy Fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined according to the following hierarchy: Level 1 valuation technique using quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets that HSBC can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 valuation technique using observable inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Level 3 valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 251 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values Assets Liabilities Designated and otherwise mandatorily Financial Trading Trading Designated at measured at investments assets Derivatives liabilities fair value Derivatives fair value $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2018 Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 367 435 2 1 79 Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 17,861 4,959 85 128 1,821 138 At 31 Dec 2017 Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 2,231 1,507 35 Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 11,173 1,384 683 Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each quarterly reporting period.
Transfers into and out of levels of the fair value hierarchy are primarily attributable to observability of valuation inputs and price transparency.
Fair value adjustments Fair value adjustments are adopted when HSBC determines there are additional factors considered by market participants that are not incorporated within the valuation model.
Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or losses within the income statement, such as when models are enhanced and therefore fair value adjustments may no longer be required.
Global Banking & Markets GB&M and Corporate Centre fair value adjustments 2018 2017 Corporate Corporate GB&M Centre GB&M Centre $m $m $m $m Type of adjustment Risk-related 1,042 138 1,078 79 bid-offer 430 76 413 5 uncertainty 99 6 91 8 credit valuation adjustment CVA 442 52 420 59 debit valuation adjustment DVA 198 82 funding fair value adjustment FFVA 256 4 233 7 other 13 3 Model-related 79 3 92 13 model limitation 79 3 92 6 other 7 Inception profit Day 1 P&L reserves Note 15 85 106 At 31 Dec 1,206 141 1,276 92 Bid-offer IFRS 13 Fair value measurement requires use of the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value.
Valuation models will typically generate mid-market values.
The bid-offer adjustment reflects the extent to which bid-offer costs would be incurred if substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the position.
Uncertainty Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data, and or the choice of model itself may be more subjective.
Inthese circumstances, an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that market participants would adopt more conservative values for uncertain parameters and or model assumptions than those used in HSBCs valuation model.
Credit and debit valuation adjustments The CVA is an adjustment to the valuation of over-the-counter OTC derivative contracts to reflect the possibility that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions.
The DVA is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the possibility that HSBC may default, and that it may not pay the full market value of the transactions.
HSBC calculates a separate CVA and DVA for each legal entity, and for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure.
With the exception of central clearing parties, all third-party counterparties are included in the CVA and DVA calculations, and these adjustments are not netted across Group entities.
HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default PD of the counterparty, conditional on the non-default of HSBC, toHSBCs expected positive exposure to the counterparty and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default.
Conversely, HSBC calculates the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to HSBC and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default.
Bothcalculations are performed over the life of the potential exposure.
For most products HSBC uses a simulation methodology, which incorporates a range of potential exposures over the life of the portfolio, to calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty.
The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants, such as counterparty netting agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty.
252 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The methodologies do not, in general, account for wrong-way risk.
Wrong-way risk is an adverse correlation between the counterpartys probability of default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction.
The risk can either be general, perhaps related to the currency of the issuer country, or specific to the transaction concerned.
When there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect this risk in the valuation.
Funding fair value adjustment The FFVA is calculated by applying future market funding spreads to the expected future funding exposure of any uncollateralised component of the OTC derivative portfolio.
The expected future funding exposure is calculated by a simulation methodology, where available, and is adjusted for events that may terminate the exposure, such as the default of HSBC or the counterparty.
The FFVA and DVA are calculated independently.
Model limitation Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplified set of assumptions that do not capture all current and future material market characteristics.
In these circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted.
Inception profit Day 1 P&L reserves Inception profit adjustments are adopted when the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more significant unobservable inputs.
The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed in Note 1.
Fair value valuation bases Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs Level 3 Assets Liabilities Designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through Held for Held for Financial Designated profit or investments trading Derivatives Total trading at fair value Derivatives Total loss $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Private equity including strategic investments 427 20 5,106 5,553 12 12 Asset-backed securities 1,030 1,140 32 2,202 Loans held for securitisation 49 49 Structured notes 3 3 46 5,328 5,374 Derivatives with monolines 65 65 Other derivatives 2,358 2,358 1,755 1,755 Other portfolios 543 5,596 305 6,444 1 1 At 31 Dec 2018 2,000 6,759 5,492 2,423 16,674 58 5,328 1,756 7,142 Assets Liabilities Available Held for Designated Held for Designated for sale trading at fair value Derivatives Total trading at fair value Derivatives Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Private equity including strategic investments 2,012 38 1,458 3,508 20 20 Asset-backed securities 1,300 1,277 2,577 Loans held for securitisation 24 24 Structured notes 3 3 4,180 4,180 Derivatives with monolines 113 113 Other derivatives 2,331 2,331 1,944 1,944 Other portfolios 120 3,710 2 3,832 At 31 Dec 2017 3,432 5,052 1,460 2,444 12,388 4,200 1,944 6,144 Level 3 instruments are present in both ongoing and legacy businesses.
Loans held for securitisation, derivatives with monolines, certain other derivatives and predominantly all Level 3 ABSs are legacy positions.
HSBC has the capability to hold these positions.
Private equity including strategic investments The fair value of a private equity investments including strategic investments is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the investees financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors: by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market: or the price at which similar companies have changed ownership.
Asset-backed securities While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of the asset-backed securities ABSs, valuation models are used to substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required.
For certain ABSs, such as residential mortgage-backed securities, the valuation uses an industry standard model with assumptions relating to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, as appropriate.
The valuations output is benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar nature.
Structured notes The fair value of Level 3 structured notes is derived from the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is determined as described in the paragraph below on derivatives.
These structured notes comprise principally equity-linked notes issued by HSBC, which provide the counterparty with a return linked to the performance of equity securities and other portfolios.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 253 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Examples of the unobservable parameters include long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, and interest and foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives OTC derivative valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon no arbitrage principles.
For many vanilla derivative products, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry.
For more complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice.
Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing.
Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources.
Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy Movement in Level 3 financial instruments Assets Liabilities Designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value Financial through Designated investm Trading profit or Trading at fair ents assets loss Derivatives liabilities value Derivatives Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2018 1,767 5,080 3,958 2,444 93 4,107 1,949 Total gains losses recognised in profit orloss 251 284 608 597 4 637 255 net income from financial instruments held for trading or 284 597 4 255 managed on a fair value basis net income from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily 608 637 measured at fair value through profit or loss gains less losses from financial investments at fair value 251 through other comprehensive income expected credit loss charges and other credit risk charges fair value gains transferred to the income statement on disposal Total gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 17 274 107 113 3 144 82 OCI 1 financial investments: fair value gains losses 15 cash flow hedges: fair value gains losses 6 6 2 fair value gains transferred to the income statement on disposal exchange differences 2 274 113 119 3 144 84 Purchases 275 4,377 2,172 3 76 New issuances 975 6 2,442 Sales 51 1,589 395 11 Settlements 141 2,021 541 191 2 32 18 Transfers out 685 1,402 285 337 24 1,112 464 Transfers in 567 1,329 82 23 628 116 At 31 Dec 2018 2,000 6,759 5,492 2,423 58 5,328 1,756 Unrealised gains losses recognised in profit or loss relating to 5 199 342 5 274 351 assets and liabilities held at 31Dec 2018 net income from financial instruments held 5 342 5 351 for trading or managed on a fair value basis net income from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives measured at fair value through profit or loss changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair 199 274 value through profit or loss loan impairment recoveries and other credit risk provisions 254 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Movement in Level 3 financial instruments continued Assets Liabilities Designated Designated at fair value at fair value through through Available Held for Held for profit profit for sale trading or loss Derivatives trading or loss Derivatives Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2017 3,476 6,489 730 2,752 3,582 37 2,300 Total gains losses recognised in profit orloss 351 188 107 152 154 5 400 trading income expense excluding net interest income 188 152 154 400 net income from other financial instruments designated at fair 107 5 value gains less losses from financial investments 313 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions LICs 38 Total gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 71 106 7 188 169 1 120 OCI 1 available-for-sale investments: fair value gains losses 30 cash flow hedges: fair value gains losses 1 3 23 35 exchange differences 101 107 4 211 169 1 155 Purchases 200 1,503 1,127 2 5 23 New issuances 1 1,915 Sales 939 3,221 130 8 12 12 Settlements 69 331 166 60 998 123 Transfers out 565 149 3 885 678 33 1,030 Transfers in 907 843 2 302 63 266 At 31 Dec 2017 3,432 5,052 1,460 2,444 4,200 1,944 Unrealised gains losses recognised in profit or loss relating to 16 110 146 218 117 397 assets and liabilities held at 31Dec 2017 trading income expense excluding net interest income 110 218 117 397 net income from other financial instruments designated at fair 146 value loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 16 1 Included in Available-for-sale investments: fair value gains losses in prior years or 'Debt Instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income in 2018 and Exchange differences in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each quarterly reporting period.
Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives Sensitivity of Level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions 2018 2017 Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI UnUnUnUnFavourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable changes changes changes changes changes changes changes changes Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Derivatives, trading assets and 1 269 257 372 253 trading liabilities Designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 394 310 89 74 through profit or loss Financial investments 34 36 23 22 53 30 128 149 At 31 Dec 697 603 23 22 514 357 128 149 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these instruments are riskmanaged.
Sensitivity of Level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions by instrument type 2018 2017 Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI UnUnUnUnFavourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable changes changes changes changes changes changes changes changes $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Private equity including strategic investments 400 317 142 105 117 102 Asset-backed securities 62 34 23 22 66 39 3 39 Loans held for securitisation 1 1 1 1 Structured notes 13 13 12 9 Derivatives with monolines Other derivatives 157 153 249 150 Other portfolios 64 85 44 53 8 8 At 31 Dec 697 603 23 22 514 357 128 149 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 255 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements The sensitivity analysis aims to measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval.
Methodologies take account of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historical data.
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments The following table lists key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments, and provides the range of those inputs at 31December 2018.
The core range of inputs is the estimated range within which 90% of the inputs fall.
Quantitative information about significant unobservable inputs in Level 3 valuations Fair value 2018 2017 Key Valuation unobservable Full range Core range Full range Core range 1 1 Assets Liabilities techniques inputs of inputs of inputs of inputs of inputs Footnotes $m $m Lower Higher Lower Higher Lower Higher Lower Higher Private equity including 5,554 12 See below See below n a n a n a n a strategic investments n a n a n a n a 2 Asset-backed securities 2,202 Prepayment CLO CDO 394 Market proxy 0% 10% 0% 10% 2% 7% 2% 7% rate Market proxy Bid quotes 0 100 50 100 0 101 6 53 other ABSs 1,808 Market proxy Bid quotes 0 271 71 99 0 103 34 98 Loans held for 49 securitisation Structured notes 3 5,374 Model Equity equity-linked notes 3,882 8% 79% 13% 53% 7% 47% 14% 30% Option model volatility Model Equity 17% 93% 40% 77% 33% 95% 45% 72% Option model correlation Model Fund fund-linked notes 83 21% 21% 21% 21% 6% 15% 6% 15% Option model volatility Model FX-linked notes 1,382 FX volatility 1% 27% 3% 25% 3% 20% 4% 13% Option model other 3 27 Model Derivatives with Credit Discounted monolines 65 spread 0.2% 1% 0.2% 1% 0.4% 3% 1% 3% cash flow Other derivatives 2,358 1,755 Interest rate derivatives: Model Prepayment Discounted securitisation swaps 233 700 rate 6% 7% 6% 7% 20% 90% 20% 90% cash flow Model long-dated swaptions 1,019 27 IR volatility 13% 39% 14% 36% 8% 41% 15% 31% Option model other 250 148 FX derivatives: Model FX options 186 244 FX volatility 1% 27% 7% 12% 0.7% 50% 5% 11% Option model other 113 77 Equity derivatives: long-dated single Model Equity 215 267 5% 83% 5% 81% 7% 84% 15% 44% stock options Option model volatility other 310 216 Credit derivatives: other 32 76 Other portfolios 6,443 1 Model Credit Discounted structured certificates 3,013 volatility 2% 4% 2% 4% 2% 4% 2% 4% cash flow 3 other 3,430 1 At 31 Dec 2018 16,674 7,142 1 The core range of inputs is the estimated range within which 90% of the inputs fall.
2 Collateralised loan obligation collateralised debt obligation.
3 Other includes a range of smaller asset holdings.
Private equity including strategic investments Given the bespoke nature of the analysis in respect of each private equity holding, it is not practical to quote a range of key unobservable inputs.
Prepayment rates Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the due date.
They vary according to the nature of the loan portfolio and expectations of future market conditions, and may be estimated using a variety of 256 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 evidence, such as prepayment rates implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historical prepayment rates and macroeconomic modelling.
Market proxy Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument when specific market pricing is not available but there is evidence from instruments with common characteristics.
In some cases it might be possible to identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider range of instruments will be used to understand the factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence.
Volatility Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price.
It varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike and maturity of the option.
Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable and are estimated from observable data.
The range of unobservable volatilities reflects the wide variation in volatility inputs by reference market price.
The core range is significantly narrower than the full range because these examples with extreme volatilities occur relatively rarely within the HSBC portfolio.
Correlation Correlation is a measure of the inter-relationship between two market prices and is expressed as a number between minus one and one.
It is used to value more complex instruments where the payout is dependent upon more than one market price.
There is a wide range of instruments for which correlation is an input, and consequently a wide range of both same-asset correlations and cross-asset correlations is used.
In general, the range of same-asset correlations will be narrower than the range of cross-asset correlations.
Unobservable correlations may be estimated based upon a range of evidence, including consensus pricing services, HSBC trade prices, proxy correlations and examination of historical price relationships.
The range of unobservable correlations quoted in the table reflects the wide variation in correlation inputs by market price pair.
Credit spread Credit spread is the premium over a benchmark interest rate required by the market to accept lower credit quality.
In a discounted cash flow model, the credit spread increases the discount factors applied to future cash flows, thereby reducing the value of an asset.
Credit spreads may be implied from market prices and may not be observable inmore illiquid markets.
Inter-relationships between key unobservable inputs Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments may not be independent of each other.
As described above, market variables may be correlated.
This correlation typically reflects the manner in which different markets tend to react to macroeconomic or other events.
Furthermore, the effect of changing market variables on the HSBC portfolio will depend on HSBCs net risk position in respect of each variable.
HSBC Holdings Basis of valuing HSBC Holdings financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 2018 2017 $m $m Valuation technique using observable inputs: Level 2 Assets at 31 Dec derivatives 707 2,388 financial investments 4,264 designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 23,513 11,944 Liabilities at 31 Dec designated at fair value 25,049 30,890 derivatives 2,159 3,082 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 257 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements 13 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation Fair value Significant Quoted market Observable unobservable Carrying price inputs inputs amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2018 Assets Loans and advances to banks 72,167 68,378 3,791 72,169 Loans and advances to customers 981,696 10,518 974,559 985,077 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 242,804 81 241,407 1,369 242,857 Financial investments at amortised cost 62,666 1,790 60,073 216 62,079 Liabilities Deposits by banks 56,331 56,308 56,308 Customer accounts 1,362,643 1,362,794 151 1,362,945 Repurchase agreements non-trading 165,884 165,884 165,884 Debt securities in issue 85,342 85,430 85,430 Subordinated liabilities 22,437 24,968 373 25,341 At 31 Dec 2017 Assets Loans and advances to banks 90,393 87,384 3,007 90,391 Loans and advances to customers 962,964 20,029 944,176 964,205 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 201,553 200,012 1,526 201,538 Financial investments at amortised cost 52,919 1,363 52,707 17 54,087 Liabilities Deposits by banks 69,922 69,862 30 69,892 Customer accounts 1,364,462 1,353,017 11,608 1,364,625 Repurchase agreements non-trading 130,002 1 129,995 129,996 Debt securities in issue 64,546 65,138 65,138 Subordinated liabilities 19,826 23,740 355 24,095 Other financial instruments not carried at fair value are typically short term in nature and reprice to current market rates frequently.
Accordingly, their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
They include cash and balances at central banks, items in the course of collection from and transmission to other banks, Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness and Hong Kong currency notes in circulation, all of which are measured at amortised cost.
Valuation Fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
It does not reflect the economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to flow from an instruments cash flow over its expected future life.
Our valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which no observable market prices are available may differ from those of other companies.
Loans and advances to banks and customers To determine the fair value of loans and advances to banks and customers, loans are segregated, as far as possible, into portfolios of similar characteristics.
Fair values are based on observable market transactions, when available.
When they are unavailable, fair values are estimated using valuation models incorporating a range of input assumptions.
These assumptions may include: value estimates from third-party brokers reflecting over-the-counter trading activity: forward-looking discounted cash flow models, taking account of expected customer prepayment rates, using assumptions that HSBC believes are consistent with those that would be used by market participants in valuing such loans: new business rates estimates for similar loans: and trading inputs from other market participants including 258 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 observed primary and secondary trades.
From time to time, we may engage a third-party valuation specialist to measure the fair value of a pool of loans.
The fair value of loans reflects expected credit losses at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants expectations of credit losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value effect of repricing between origination and the balance sheet date.
For creditimpaired loans, fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the time period they are expected to be recovered.
Financial investments The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices.
The fair values of unlisted financial investments are determined using valuation techniques that incorporate the prices and future earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities.
Deposits by banks and customer accounts The fair values of on-demand deposits are approximated by their carrying value.
For deposits with longer-term maturities, fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Fair values in debt securities is issue and subordinated liabilities are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements non-trading Fair values of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements that are held on a non-trading basis provide approximate carrying amounts.
This is due to the fact that balances are generally short dated.
HSBC Holdings The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purposes of measurement and disclosure are described above.
Fair values of HSBC Holdings financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 2018 2017 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 1 1 amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Assets at 31 Dec Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 56,144 56,801 76,627 78,534 Liabilities at 31 Dec Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 949 949 2,571 2,571 Debt securities in issue 50,800 51,552 34,258 36,611 Subordinated liabilities 17,715 20,224 15,877 19,596 1 Fair values were determined using valuation techniques with observable inputs Level 2.
14 Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 2018 2017 Designated at fair Mandatorily measured value at fair value Total Designated at fair value Footnotes $m $m $m $m Securities 2,349 30,217 32,566 29,456 treasury and other eligible bills 641 29 670 606 debt securities 1,708 4,839 6,547 4,090 equity securities 25,349 25,349 24,760 Loans and advances to banks and customers 7,717 7,717 8 Other 828 828 1 At 31 Dec 2,349 38,762 41,111 29,464 1 Information regarding the effects of adoption of IFRS 9 can be found in Note 37.
1 Securities 2018 2017 Designated at fair Mandatorily measured value at fair value Total Designated at fair value Footnotes $m $m $m $m UK Government 17 Hong Kong Government 4 4 64 Other governments 673 713 1,386 1,247 2 Asset-backed securities 399 399 2 Corporate debt and other securities 1,672 3,756 5,428 3,366 Equities 25,349 25,349 24,760 At 31 Dec 2,349 30,217 32,566 29,456 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of $2,537m 2017: $1,621m, of which nil 2017:$0.4m are guaranteed by various governments.
2 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies.
Derivative assets and liabilities decreased during 2018, driven by the adoption of Settled to Market accounting for cleared derivatives, yield curve movements and changes in foreign exchange rates.
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries Notional contract amount Assets Liabilities Trading Hedging Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Foreign exchange 16,623 1,120 207 207 628 155 783 Interest rate 44,059 38,148 283 217 500 538 838 1,376 At 31 Dec 2018 60,682 39,268 490 217 707 1,166 993 2,159 Foreign exchange 20,484 1,120 588 588 1,330 110 1,440 Interest rate 41,061 25,294 1,364 436 1,800 678 964 1,642 At 31 Dec 2017 61,545 26,414 1,952 436 2,388 2,008 1,074 3,082 Use of derivatives For details regarding use of derivatives, see page 138 under Market Risk.
Trading derivatives Most of HSBCs derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities.
Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks.
Trading activities include market-making and risk management.
Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenue based on spread and volume.
Risk management activity is undertaken to manage the risk arising from client transactions, with the principal purpose of retaining client margin.
Other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives.
Substantially all of HSBC Holdings derivatives entered into with subsidiaries are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value.
Derivatives valued using models with unobservable inputs The difference between the fair value at initial recognition the transaction price and the value that would have been derived had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as shown in the following table: 260 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Unamortised balance of derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable inputs 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m Unamortised balance at 1 Jan 106 99 Deferral on new transactions 161 191 Recognised in the income statement during the year: 158 187 amortisation 96 85 subsequent to unobservable inputs becoming observable 2 2 maturity, termination or offsetting derivative 60 100 Exchange differences 4 10 Other 19 7 1 Unamortised balance at 31 Dec 86 106 1 This amount is yet to be recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Hedge accounting derivatives HSBC applies hedge accounting to manage the following risks: interest rate, foreign exchange and net investment in foreign operations.
Further details on how these risks arise and how they are managed by the Group can be found in the Report of the Directors.
Fair value hedges HSBC enters into  swaps to manage the exposure to changes in fair value caused by movements in market interest rates on certain fixed-rate financial instruments that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, including debt securities held and issued.
HSBC hedging instrument by hedged risk Hedging instrument Carrying amount 1 2 Notional amount Assets Liabilities Balance sheet Change in fair value Hedged risk $m $m $m presentation $m 3 Interest rate 123,551 915 2,123 Derivatives 283 At 31 Dec 2018 123,551 915 2,123 283 1 The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date: they do not represent amounts at risk.
2 Used in effectiveness testing: comprising the full fair value change of the hedging instrument not excluding any component.
3 The hedged risk interest rate includes inflation risk.
HSBC hedged item by hedged risk Hedged item Ineffectiveness Accumulated fair value hedge adjustments included in Recognised 2 Carrying amount carrying amount Change in fair in profit and 1 value loss Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Profit and loss Balance sheet presentation presentation $m $m $m $m $m $m Hedged risk Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 3 93,469 231 425 Net income from Interest rate 37 financial Loans and advances to instruments held for 1,455 6 customers 4 trading or managed 14,171 155 Debt securities in issue 124 on a fair value basis 4,780 45 Deposits by banks 15 At 31 Dec 2018 94,924 18,951 225 110 320 37 1 Used in effectiveness assessment: comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
2 The accumulated amount of fair value adjustments remaining in the statement of financial position for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for hedging gains and losses were assets of $93m for FVOCI and assets of $19m for debt issued.
HSBC Holdings hedging instrument by hedged risk Hedging instrument Carrying amount 1,4 2 Notional amount Assets Liabilities Change in fair value Balance sheet presentation $m $m $m $m Hedged risk 3 Interest rate 39,538 217 993 Derivatives 231 At 31 Dec 2018 39,538 217 993 231 1 The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date: they do not represent amounts at risk.
3 The hedged risk interest rate includes foreign exchange risk.
4 The notional amount of non-dynamic fair value hedges is equal to $39,538m, of which the weighted-average maturity date is December 2026 and the weighted-average swap rate is 1.34%.
The majority of these hedges are internal to HSBC Group.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 261 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements HSBC Holdings hedged item by hedged risk Hedged item Ineffectiveness Accumulated fair value hedge adjustments included in Recognised 2 Carrying amount carrying amount Change in fair in profit and 1 value loss Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Balance sheet presentation Profit and loss presentation Hedged risk $m $m $m $m $m $m Loans and advances to 4,620 29 38 banks 3 Net income from financial Interest rate instruments held for trading or Debt managed on a fair value basis securities 33,874 763 191 2 in issue At 31 Dec 2018 4,620 33,874 29 763 229 2 1 Used in effectiveness assessment: comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
2 The accumulated amount of fair value adjustments remaining in the statement of financial position for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for hedging gains and losses were liabilities of $80m for debt issued.
Sources of hedge ineffectiveness may arise from basis risk, including but not limited to the discount rates used for calculating the fair value of derivatives, hedges using instruments with a non-zero fair value, and notional and timing differences between the hedged items and hedging instruments.
For some debt securities held, HSBC manages interest rate risk in a dynamic risk management strategy.
The assets in scope of this strategy are high-quality fixed-rate debt securities, which may be sold to meet liquidity and funding requirements.
The interest rate risk of the HSBC fixed-rate debt securities issued is managed in a non-dynamic risk management strategy.
Cash flow hedges HSBCs cash flow hedging instruments consist principally of interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps that are used to manage the variability in future interest cash flows of non-trading financial assets and liabilities, arising due to changes in market interest rates and foreign-currency basis.
HSBC applies macro cash flow hedging for interest rate risk exposures on portfolios of replenishing current and forecasted issuances of non-trading assets and liabilities that bear interest at variable rates, including rolling such instruments.
The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults.
The aggregate cash flows representing both principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios are used to determine the effectiveness and ineffectiveness.
Macro cash flow hedges are considered to be dynamic hedges.
HSBC also hedges the variability in future cash flows on foreign-denominated financial assets and liabilities arising due to changes in foreign exchange market rates with cross-currency swaps, which are considered dynamic hedges.
Hedging instrument by hedged risk Hedging instrument Hedged item Ineffectiveness Carrying amount Change in fair Recognised in Change in fair 2 3 1 value value profit and loss Notional amount Assets Liabilities Balance sheet Profit and loss presentation presentation $m $m $m $m $m $m Hedged risk Net income from financial Foreign currency 24,954 295 653 Derivatives 198 200 2 instruments held for trading or managed on a fair Interest rate 39,720 165 138 Derivatives 77 67 10 value basis At 31 Dec 2018 64,674 460 791 275 267 8 1 The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date: they do not represent amounts at risk.
3 Used in effectiveness assessment: comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
Sources of hedge ineffectiveness may arise from basis risk, including but not limited to timing differences between the hedged items and hedging instruments and hedges using instruments with a non-zero fair value.
Reconciliation of equity and analysis of other comprehensive income by risk type Interest rate Foreign currency $m $m Cash flow hedging reserve at 1 Jan 2018 40 187 Fair value gains losses 67 200 Fair value gains losses reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to the income statement in respect of: Hedged items that have affected profit or loss 90 227 Income taxes 11 13 Others 2 9 Cash flow hedging reserve at 31 Dec 2018 26 182 262 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain consolidated net investments.
Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with foreign currency borrowings.
At 31 December 2018, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations were assets of $163m 2017: $4m, liabilities of nil 2017: $71m and notional contract values of $5,000m 2017: $5,000m.
Ineffectiveness recognised in Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis in the year ended 31 December 2018 was nil 2017: nil.
16 Financial investments Carrying amount of financial investments 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m Financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 344,767 N A treasury and other eligible bills 96,642 N A debt securities 246,371 N A equity securities 1,657 N A 1 other instruments 97 N A 2 Debt instruments measured at amortised cost 62,666 N A treasury and other eligible bills 679 N A debt securities 61,987 N A Available-for-sale securities at fair value N A 336,157 treasury and other eligible bills N A 78,851 debt securities N A 253,389 equity securities N A 3,917 Held to maturity securities at amortised cost N A 52,919 2 debt securities N A 52,919 3, 4 At 31 Dec 407,433 389,076 1 Other instruments comprises of loans and advances.
3 Categories of financial instruments are disclosed under IFRS 9 at 31 December 2018.
These are not directly comparable with 31 December 2017, where the instruments were categorised in accordance with IAS 39.
4 Information regarding the effects of adoption of IFRS 9 can be found in Note 37.
Equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Dividends Fair value recognised Type of equity instruments $m $m Investments required by central institutions 848 34 Business facilitation 758 21 Others 51 9 At 31 Dec 2018 1,657 64 Financial investments at amortised cost and fair value 2018 2017 1 1 Amortised cost Fair value Amortised cost Fair value Footnotes $m $m $m $m US Treasury 54,941 54,763 41,427 41,274 2 US Government agencies 21,058 20,580 18,691 18,494 2 US Government-sponsored entities 12,867 12,701 10,998 11,033 UK Government 20,576 21,083 17,817 18,538 Hong Kong Government 49,956 49,955 52,269 52,252 Other governments 142,495 144,099 134,766 136,414 3 Asset-backed securities 3,579 3,390 6,187 5,781 Corporate debt and other securities 97,286 98,419 99,136 102,540 Equities 1,353 1,657 2,989 3,917 At 31 Dec 404,111 406,647 384,280 390,243 1 Included within fair value figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of $56bn 2017: $67bn, of which $8bn 2017: $15bn are guaranteed by various governments.
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Government agencies and sponsored entities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 263 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Maturities of investments in debt securities at their carrying amount Up to 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years Over 10 years Total $m $m $m $m $m Debt securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive 61,598 124,075 36,194 24,504 246,371 income Debt securities measured at amortised cost 2,519 10,086 16,065 33,317 61,987 At 31 Dec 2018 64,117 134,161 52,259 57,821 308,358 Available-for-sale 63,896 122,113 37,292 30,088 253,389 Held to maturity 3,731 9,406 13,482 26,300 52,919 At 31 Dec 2017 67,627 131,519 50,774 56,388 306,308 Contractual maturities and weighted average yields of investment debt securities Up to 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years Over 10 years Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield $m % $m % $m % $m % Debt securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income US Treasury 947 1.6 33,220 2.1 14,396 2.3 2,376 3.1 US Government agencies 74 2.1 10 3.8 9,707 2.9 US Government-sponsored agencies 1,361 3.2 1,268 2.6 2,240 2.8 4,309 3.2 UK Government 856 0.9 5,988 1.1 5,472 0.6 859 4.4 Hong Kong Government 456 1.3 551 1.3 63 3.0 Other governments 45,390 1.5 48,549 2.8 8,701 2.3 1,489 2.6 Asset-backed securities 16 5.9 25 381 2.7 3,156 2.1 Corporate debt and other securities 12,312 1.8 32,893 2.0 4,563 2.3 2,574 3.1 Total amortised cost at 31 Dec 2018 61,338 122,568 35,826 24,470 Total carrying value 61,598 124,075 36,194 24,504 Debt instruments measured at amortised cost US Treasury 34 4.2 53 4.8 1 1.0 152 4.0 US Government agencies 18 3.9 26 3.6 11,025 2.6 US Government-sponsored agencies 50 2.2 389 2.7 163 2.6 3,087 3.0 Hong Kong Government 8 4.9 24 1.6 9 1.3 7 1.5 Other governments 329 1.8 470 2.6 451 2.9 744 4.1 Asset-backed securities 2 7.4 Corporate debt and other securities 2,098 3.2 9,132 3.4 15,415 3.4 18,300 3.6 Total amortised cost at 31 Dec 2018 2,519 10,086 16,065 33,317 Total carrying value 2,519 10,086 16,065 33,317 The maturity distributions of ABSs are presented in the above table on the basis of contractual maturity dates.
The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31December 2018 by the book amount of debt securities at thatdate.
The yields do not include the effect ofrelated derivatives.
17 Assets pledged, collateral received and assets transferred Assets pledged Financial assets pledged as collateral 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m Treasury bills and other eligible securities 11,470 10,183 1 Loans and advances to banks 151 14,518 1 Loans and advances to customers 51,659 68,336 Debt securities 95,210 96,245 Equity securities 22,510 33,209 1 Other 34,028 2,743 2 Assets pledged at 31 Dec 215,028 225,234 1 Settlement accounts, cash collateral and margin receivables included within 'Loans and advances to banks' and 'Loans and advances to customers' were reclassified from Trading assets to Other assets on 1 January 2018.
Comparative data has not been restated.
2 Information regarding the effects of adoption of IFRS 9 can be found in Note 37.
Assets pledged as collateral include all assets categorised as encumbered in the disclosure on page 72 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2018.
The amount of assets pledged to secure liabilities may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral.
For example, in the case of securitisations and covered bonds, the amount of liabilities issued plus mandatory  is less than the book value of the pool of assets available for use as collateral.
This is also the case where assets are placed with a custodian or a settlement agent that has a floating charge over all the assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts.
264 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard securities lending and borrowing, repurchase agreements and derivative margining.
HSBC places both cash and non-cash collateral in relation to derivative transactions.
Financial assets pledged as collateral which the counterparty has the right to sell or repledge 2018 2017 $m $m Trading assets 76,121 70,117 Financial investments 15,741 13,581 At 31 Dec 91,862 83,698 Collateral received The fair value of assets accepted as collateral, relating primarily to standard securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements, swaps of securities and derivative margining, that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default was $482,818m 2017: $387,678m.
The fair value of any such collateral sold or repledged was $350,848m 2017: $243,531m.
HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements and derivative margining.
Assets transferred The assets pledged include transfers to third parties that do not qualify for derecognition, notably secured borrowings such as debt securities held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements and equity securities lent under securities lending agreements, as well as swaps of equity and debt securities.
For secured borrowings, the transferred asset collateral continues to be recognised in full and a related liability, reflecting the Groups obligation to repurchase the assets for a fixed price at a future date, is also recognised on the balance sheet.
Where securities are swapped, the transferred asset continues to be recognised in full.
There is no associated liability as the non-cash collateral received is not recognised on the balance sheet.
The Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the transaction, and remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged assets.
With the exception of Other sales in the table below, the counterpartys recourse is not limited to the transferred assets.
Transferred financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities Carrying amount of: Fair value of: Transferred Associated Transferred Associated Net assets liabilities assets liabilities position $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2018 Repurchase agreements 62,216 60,361 Securities lending agreements 32,486 2,426 Other sales recourse to transferred assets only 2,647 2,647 2,625 2,630 5 At 31 Dec 2017 Repurchase agreements 55,510 52,093 Securities lending agreements 33,878 3,324 Other sales recourse to transferred assets only 2,387 2,388 2,377 2,378 1 18 Interests in associates and joint ventures Associates At 31 December 2018, the carrying amount of HSBCs interests in associates was $22,244m 2017: $22,577m.
Principal associates of HSBC 2018 2017 Fair Fair Carrying Carrying 1 1 amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Bank of Communications Co. Limited 17,754 10,991 18,057 10,491 The Saudi British Bank 3,557 5,222 3,618 4,320 1 Principal associates are listed on recognised stock exchanges.
The fair values are based on the quoted market prices of the shares held Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
At 31 Dec 2018 Country of incorporation and HSBCs principal place of Principal interest Footnotes business activity % Peoples Republic Bank of Communications Co. Limited of China Banking services 19.03 1 The Saudi British Bank Saudi Arabia Banking services 40.00 1 In 2018, The Saudi British Bank announced a merger agreement with Alawwal Bank in Saudi Arabia.
The merger, subject to shareholder and regulatory approval, is expected to be completed in 2019 and would dilute HSBCs shareholding in the merged bank from 40% to 29.2%.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 265 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements A list of all associates and joint ventures is set out on page 302.
Bank of Communications Co. Limited BoCom The Groups investment in BoCom is classified as an associate.
Significant influence in BoCom was established via representation on BoComs Board of Directors and participation in a technical cooperation and exchange programme TCEP.
Under the TCEP, a number of HSBC staff have been seconded to assist in the maintenance of BoComs financial and operating policies.
Investments in associates are recognised using the equity method of accounting in accordance with IAS 28, whereby the investment is initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Groups share of BoComs net assets.
An impairment test is required if there is any indication of impairment.
Impairment testing At 31 December 2018, the fair value of HSBCs investment in BoCom had been below the carrying amount for approximately 80 months.
As a result, the Group performed an impairment test on the carrying amount of the investment in BoCom, which confirmed there was no impairment at 31December 2018 as the recoverable amount as determined by a value-in-use VIU calculation was higher than the carrying value.
At 31 Dec 2018 At 31 Dec 2017 Fair Fair VIU Carrying value value VIU Carrying value value $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn Bank of Communications Co. Limited 18.0 17.8 11.0 18.3 18.1 10.5 In future periods, the VIU may increase or decrease depending on the effect of changes to model inputs.
The main model inputs are described below and are based on factors observed at the period-end.
The factors that could result in a change in the VIU and an impairment include a short-term underperformance by BoCom, a change in regulatory capital requirements, or an increase in uncertainty regarding the future performance of BoCom resulting in a downgrade of the future asset growth or profitability.
An increase in the discount rate as a result of an increase in the risk premium or risk-free rates could also result in a reduction of VIU and an impairment.
At the point where the carrying value exceeds the VIU, impairment would be recognised.
If the Group did not have significant influence in BoCom, the investment would be carried at fair value rather than the current carrying value.
Basis of recoverable amount The impairment test was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of BoCom, determined by a VIU calculation, with its carrying amount.
The VIU calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on managements estimates of future earnings available to ordinary shareholders prepared in accordance with IAS 36.
Significant management judgement is required in arriving at the best estimate.
There are two main components to the VIU calculation.
The first component is managements best estimate of BoComs earnings which is based on managements explicit forecasts over the short to medium term.
This results in forecast earnings growth that is lower than recent historical actual growth and also reflects the uncertainty arising from the current economic outlook.
Earnings beyond the short to medium term are then extrapolated in perpetuity using a long-term growth rate to derive a terminal value, which comprises the majority of the VIU.
The second component is the capital maintenance charge CMC which is managements forecast of the earnings that need to be withheld in order for BoCom to meet regulatory capital requirements over the forecast period i. e. CMC is deducted when arriving at managements estimate of future earnings available to ordinary shareholders.
The principal inputs to the CMC calculation include estimates of asset growth, the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets, and the expected minimum regulatory capital requirements.
An increase in the CMC as a result of a change to these principal inputs would reduce VIU.
Additionally, management considers other factors including qualitative factors to ensure that the inputs to the VIU calculation remain appropriate.
Key assumptions in value-in-use calculation We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36: Long-term profit growth rate: 3% 2017: 3% for periods after 2022, which does not exceed forecast GDP growth in mainland China and is consistent with forecasts by external analysts.
Long-term asset growth rate: 3% 2017: 3% for periods after 2022, which is the rate that assets are expected to grow to achieve longterm profit growth of 3%.
Discount rate: 11.82% 2017: 11.85%, which is based on a capital asset pricing model CAPM calculation for BoCom, using market data.
Management also compares rates derived from the CAPM with discount rates from external sources.
The discount rate used was within the range of 10.4% to 15.0% 2017: 10.2% to 13.4% indicated by external sources.
Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances: an increased range from 0.73% to 0.79% 2017: 0.66% to 0.82% in the short to medium term reflect US-China trade tensions.
For periods after 2022, the ratio is 0.70% 2017: 0.70%, which is slightly higher than the historical average.
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets: 62% 2017: 62% for all forecast periods.
This is slightly higher than BoComs actual results and slightly lower than the forecasts disclosed by external analysts.
Cost-income ratio: ranges from 38.7% to 39.0% 2017: 37.1% to 38.0% in the short to medium term.
This is consistent with the forecasts disclosed by external analysts.
Effective tax rate: ranges from 13.8% to 22.3% 2017: 18.2% to 22.5% in the short to medium term, reflecting an expected increase towards the long-term assumption.
For periods after 2022, the rate is 22.5% 2017: 22.5%, which is slightly higher than the historical average.
Regulatory capital requirements: capital adequacy ratio of 11.5% 2017:11.5% and tier 1 capital adequacy ratio of 9.5% 2017: 9.5%, based on the minimum regulatory requirements.
266 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The following table shows the change to each key assumption in the VIU calculation that on its own would reduce the headroom tonil.
Key assumption Changes to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil Long-term profit growth rate decreases by 13 basis points Long-term asset growth rate increases by 12 basis points Discount rate increases by 16 basis points Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances increases by 2 basis points Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets increases by 77 basis points Cost-income ratio increases by 50 basis points Long-term effective tax rate increases by 123 basis points Regulatory capital requirements capital adequacy ratio increases by 14 basis points Regulatory capital requirements tier 1 capital adequacy ratio increases by 75 basis points The following table further illustrates the impact on VIU of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions.
This reflects the sensitivity of the VIU to each key assumption on its own and it is possible that more than one favourable and or unfavourable change will occur at the same time.
The selected rates of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions are largely based on external analysts forecasts, which can change from period to period.
Sensitivity of VIU to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions Favourable change Unfavourable change Increase Decrease in VIU VIU in VIU VIU bps $bn $bn bps $bn $bn At 31 Dec 2018 Long-term profit growth rate 100 2.6 20.6 10 0.2 17.8 Long-term asset growth rate 10 0.3 18.3 100 2.8 15.3 Discount rate 142 3.2 21.3 28 0.5 17.5 2018-22: 0.70% 2018-22: 0.83% Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances 2023 onwards: 0.65% 0.9 18.9 2023 onwards: 0.77% 1.0 17.0 Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets 140 0.5 18.6 80 0.3 17.8 Cost-income ratio 160 1.1 19.2 200 1.4 16.7 Long term effective tax rate 280 0.7 18.7 250 0.6 17.5 1 Earnings in short to medium term compound annual growth rate 204 1.6 19.6 366 2.5 15.5 Regulatory capital requirements capital adequacy ratio 18.0 258 5.0 13.0 Regulatory capital requirements - tier 1 capital adequacy ratio 18.0 243 3.2 14.8 At 31 Dec 2017 Long-term profit growth rate 200 6.6 24.9 18.3 Long-term asset growth rate 20 0.5 18.9 200 7.1 11.2 Discount rate 35 0.7 19.1 65 1.2 17.1 2017-20: 0.71% 2017-20: 0.90% Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances 2021 onwards: 0.70% 0.1 18.5 2021 onwards: 0.77% 1.3 17.0 Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets 60 0.2 18.6 30 0.1 18.2 Cost-income ratio 173 1.5 19.8 18.3 Long-term effective tax rate 120 0.3 18.6 250 0.67 17.7 1 Earnings in short to medium term compound annual growth rate 288 2.8 21.1 311 3.6 14.7 Regulatory capital requirements capital adequacy ratio 18.3 248 5.6 12.7 Regulatory capital requirements tier 1 capital adequacy ratio 18.3 234 3.5 14.8 1 Based on managements explicit forecasts over the short to medium term.
Considering the interrelationship of the changes set out in the table above, management estimates that the reasonably possible range of VIU is $15.5bn to $19.6bn 2017: $14.7bn to $21.1bn.
In 2018, the range is based on the favourable unfavourable change in the earnings in the short to medium-term and long-term LICs set out in the table above.
All other long-term assumptions, the discount rate and the basis of the CMC have been kept unchanged when determining the reasonably possible range of the VIU.
Selected financial information of BoCom The statutory accounting reference date of BoCom is 31 December.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, HSBC included the associates results on the basis of the financial statements for the 12 months ended 30 September 2018, taking into account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2018 to 31 December 2018 that would have materially affected the results.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 267 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Selected balance sheet information of BoCom At 30 Sep 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m Cash and balances at central banks 125,414 146,029 Loans and advances to banks and other financial institutions 102,980 120,403 Loans and advances to customers 686,951 662,706 Other financial assets 408,136 386,067 Other assets 42,106 58,202 Total assets 1,365,587 1,373,407 Deposits by banks and other financial institutions 304,395 366,993 Customer accounts 829,539 747,882 Other financial liabilities 94,900 123,751 Other liabilities 36,332 32,568 Total liabilities 1,265,166 1,271,194 1 Total equity 100,421 102,213 1 Due to the adoption of IFRS9, the opening equity of BoCom at 1 January 2018 was reduced by $4,053m.
Reconciliation of BoComs total shareholders equity to the carrying amount in HSBCs consolidated financial statements At 30 Sep 2018 2017 $m $m HSBCs share of total shareholders equity 17,275 17,551 Goodwill and other intangible assets 479 506 Carrying amount 17,754 18,057 Selected income statement information of BoCom For the 12 months ended 30 Sep 2018 2017 $m $m Net interest income 19,295 19,080 Net fee and commission income 6,245 5,698 Change in expected credit losses loan impairment charges 5,602 4,286 Depreciation and amortisation 767 1,342 Tax expense 1,554 2,234 Profit for the year 11,116 10,288 Other comprehensive income 190 624 Total comprehensive income 11,306 9,664 Dividends received from BoCom 611 565 Summarised aggregate financial information for all associates excluding BoCom 2018 2017 $m $m Carrying amount 4,482 4,520 HSBCs share of: total assets 20,470 20,625 total liabilities 15,675 16,119 revenues 959 1,051 profit or loss from continuing operations 487 487 Joint ventures At 31 December 2018, the carrying amount of HSBCs interests in joint ventures was $163m 2017: $167m.
Associates and joint ventures For the year ended 31 December 2018, HSBCs share of associates and joint ventures tax on profit was $306m 2017: $440m.
This is included within Share of profit in associates and joint ventures in the Consolidated income statement.
268 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Movements in interests in associates and joint ventures 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m As at 31 Dec 2017 22,744 20,029 Impact on transition to IFRS 9 942 N A At 1 Jan 21,802 20,029 Additions 81 60 Disposals 85 67 Share of results 2,536 2,375 Dividends 910 740 Exchange differences 1,018 1,144 Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 64 43 Other movements 65 14 1 At 31 Dec 22,407 22,744 1 Includes goodwill of $511m 2017: $521m.
19 Investments in subsidiaries Main subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings At 31 Dec 2018 Place of incorporation or HSBCs registration interest % Share class Europe England and HSBC Bank plc 100 1 Ordinary, $0.01 Non-cumulative third Dollar Preference Wales England and HSBC UK Bank plc Wales 100 1 Ordinary HSBC France France 99.99 5 Actions HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG Germany 80.67 Stckaktien no par value Asia Hang Seng Bank Limited Hong Kong 62.14 HK$5 Ordinary Peoples Republic HSBC Bank China Company Limited of China 100 CNY1 Ordinary HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad Malaysia 100 RM0.50 Ordinary HSBC Life International Limited Bermuda 100 HK$1 Ordinary The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Hong Kong 100 Ordinary no par value Limited Middle East and North Africa United Arab $1 Ordinary and $1 Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 100 Emirates CRP North America HSBC Bank Canada Canada 100 Common no par value and Preference no par value HSBC Bank USA, N. A.
US 100 $100 Common and $0.01 Preference Latin America HSBC Mexico, S. A. Institucin fide Banca Mltiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC Mexico 99.99 MXN2 Ordinary Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the main subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in Notes 25 Debt securities in issue, 28 Subordinated liabilities and 31 Non-controlling interests, respectively.
A list of all related undertakings is set out on pages 301 to 302.
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries and territories of incorporation except for HSBC Life International Limited, which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
HSBC is structured as a network of regional banks and locally incorporated regulated banking entities.
Each bank is separately capitalised in accordance with applicable prudential requirements and maintains a capital buffer consistent with the Groups risk appetite for the relevant country or region.
HSBCs capital management process is incorporated in the annual operating plan, which is approved by the Board.
HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings issuance of equity and non-equity capital, and by profit retention.
The increase in HSBC Holding investments in subsidiaries of $67,300m during the year 2017: reduction of $2,920m was driven by $82,570m of restructuring and new capital injections 2017: $1,744m, $2,200m part reversal of the impairment previously recognised in relation to HSBC Overseas Holdings UK Limited 2017: nil, $197m other movements 2017: reduction of $289m, partially offset by $17,348m net return of capital from subsidiaries 2017: $4,070m, $136m movement in impairment 2017: $63m and $183m intra-Group disposals 2017: $242m.
The part reversal of impairment in relation to HSBC Overseas Holdings UK Limitedis due to an increase in the future expected cash flows from this entity.
As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a balance between the composition of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries.
Subject to this, there is no current or foreseen impediment to HSBC Holdings ability to provide funding for such investments.
During 2018, consistent with the Groups capital plan, the Groups subsidiaries did not experience any significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned dividends or payments.
However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 269 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
The amount of guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other Group entities is set out in Note 33.
Information on structured entities consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights is included in Note 20 Structured entities.
In each of these cases, HSBC controls and consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests 2018 2017 Hang Seng Bank Limited Proportion of ownership interests and voting rights held by non-controlling interests 37.86% 37.86% Place of business Hong Kong Hong Kong $m $m Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1,194 997 Accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary 6,637 6,233 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 647 594 Summarised financial information: total assets 197,867 186,638 total liabilities 179,450 169,275 net operating income before changes in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges 5,294 4,556 profit for the year 3,159 2,632 total comprehensive income for the year 2,950 2,895 20 Structured entities HSBC is mainly involved with both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities through the securitisation of financial assets, conduits and investment funds, established either by HSBC or a third party.
Consolidated structured entities Total assets of HSBCs consolidated structured entities, split by entity type HSBC Conduits Securitisations managed funds Other Total $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn At 31 Dec 2018 9.2 5.7 6.5 4.4 25.8 At 31 Dec 2017 12.9 4.8 7.0 3.2 27.9 Conduits HSBC has established and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits SICs and multi-seller conduits.
Securities investment conduits The SICs purchase highly rated ABSs to facilitate tailored investment opportunities.
At 31 December 2018, Solitaire, HSBCs principal SIC, held $2.3bn of ABSs 2017: $3.2bn.
These are included within the disclosures of ABSs on page 122.
It is currently funded entirely by commercial paper CP issued to HSBC.
Although HSBC continues to provide a liquidity facility, Solitaire has no need to draw on it as long as HSBC purchases its issued CP, which HSBC intends to do for the foreseeable future.
Mazarin is funded by medium-term notes, and is no longer funded by repurchase agreements.
HSBCs primary exposure to Mazarin is represented by the amortised cost of the debt required to support the non-cash assets of the vehicles.
The first loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by the vehicle, which are held substantially by third parties.
Barion and Malachites clean-up redemption conditions were triggered in March 2018 and August 2018 respectively, resulting in the full redemption of these vehicles.
Multi-seller conduit HSBCs multi-seller conduit was established to provide access to flexible market-based sources of finance for its clients.
Currently, HSBC bears risk equal to the transaction-specific facility offered to the multi-seller conduit, amounting to $16.1bn at 31December 2018 2017: $15.7bn.
First loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit enhancements.
A layer of secondary loss protection is provided by HSBC in the form of programme-wide enhancement facilities.
Securitisations HSBC uses structured entities to securitise customer loans and advances it originates in order to diversify its sources of funding for asset origination and capital efficiency purposes.
The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to the structured entities for cash or synthetically through credit default swaps, and the structured entities issue debt securities to investors.
HSBC managed funds HSBC has established a number of money market and non-money market funds.
Where it is deemed to be acting as principal rather than agent in its role as investment manager, HSBC controls these funds.
270 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other HSBC has entered into a number of transactions in the normal course of business, which include asset and structured finance transactions where it has control of the structured entity.
In addition, HSBC is deemed to control anumber of third-party managed funds through its involvement as a principal in the funds.
Unconsolidated structured entities The term unconsolidated structured entities refers to all structured entities not controlled by HSBC.
The Group entersinto transactions with unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions and for specific investment opportunities.
Nature and risks associated with HSBC interests in unconsolidated structured entities HSBC managed Non-HSBC Securitisations funds managed funds Other Total Total asset values of the entities $m 0500 76 243 906 79 1,304 5002,000 10 56 570 5 641 2,0005,000 1 17 230 248 5,00025,000 5 90 1 96 25,000 2 10 12 Number of entities at 31 Dec 2018 87 323 1,806 85 2,301 $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn Total assets in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated 3.8 8.3 8.9 4.7 25.7 structured entities trading assets 0.1 0.3 1.3 1.7 financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 7.3 7.9 15.2 loans and advances to customers 3.8 0.3 2.7 6.8 financial investments 0.9 0.4 0.3 1.6 other assets 0.4 0.4 Total liabilities in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated 0.2 0.2 structured entities other liabilities 0.2 0.2 Other off-balance sheet commitments 0.8 0.1 3.3 1.0 5.2 HSBCs maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2018 4.6 8.4 12.2 5.5 30.7 Total asset values of the entities $m 0500 78 321 930 210 1,539 5002,000 6 56 578 3 643 2,0005,000 17 235 252 5,00025,000 2 10 104 1 117 25,000 2 11 13 Number of entities at 31 Dec 2017 86 406 1,858 214 2,564 $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn Total assets in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 4.0 9.1 9.3 4.1 26.5 trading assets 0.2 0.2 2.4 2.8 financial assets designated at fair value 8.0 8.3 16.3 loans and advances to banks 0.1 0.1 loans and advances to customers 4.0 1.1 5.1 financial investments 0.9 0.8 0.1 1.8 other assets 0.4 0.4 Total liabilities in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 0.3 0.3 other liabilities 0.3 0.3 Other off-balance sheet commitments 0.1 2.2 0.3 2.6 HSBCs maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2017 4.0 9.2 11.5 4.4 29.1 The maximum exposure to loss from HSBCs interests in unconsolidated structured entities represents the maximum loss it could incur as a result of its involvement with these entities regardless of the probability of the loss being incurred.
For commitments, guarantees and written credit default swaps, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential future losses.
For retained and purchased investments in and loans to unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to loss is the carrying value of these interests at the balance sheet reporting date.
The maximum exposure to loss is stated gross of the effects of hedging and collateral arrangements that HSBC has entered into in order to mitigate the Group's exposure to loss.
Securitisations HSBC has interests in unconsolidated securitisation vehicles through holding notes issued by these entities.
In addition, HSBC has investments in ABSs issued by third-party structured entities, as set out on page 121.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 271 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements HSBC managed funds HSBC establishes and manages money market funds and non-money market investment funds to provide customers with investment opportunities.
Further information on funds under management is provided on page 65.
HSBC, as fund manager, may be entitled to receive management and performance fees based on the assets under management.
HSBC may also retain units in these funds.
Non-HSBC managed funds HSBC purchases and holds units of third-party managed funds in order to facilitate business and meet customer needs.
Other HSBC has established structured entities in the normal course of business, such as structured credit transactions for customers, to provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance transactions.
In addition to the interests disclosed above, HSBC enters into derivative contracts, reverse repos and stock borrowing transactions with structured entities.
These interests arise in the normal course of business for the facilitation of third-party transactions and risk management solutions.
HSBC sponsored structured entities The amount of assets transferred to and income received from such sponsored structured entities during 2018 and 2017 were not significant.
21 Goodwill and intangible assets 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m Goodwill 12,986 13,588 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 7,149 6,610 1 Other intangible assets 4,222 3,255 2 At 31 Dec 24,357 23,453 1 Included within other intangible assets is internally generated software with a net carrying value of $3,632m 2017: $2,641m.
During the year, capitalisation of internally generated software was $1,781m 2017: $1,157m and amortisation was $687m 2017: $570m.
Movement analysis of goodwill 2018 2017 $m $m Gross amount At 1 Jan 22,902 21,445 Exchange differences 617 1,490 Other 105 33 At 31 Dec 22,180 22,902 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 Jan 9,314 9,115 Exchange differences 120 327 Other 128 At 31 Dec 9,194 9,314 Net carrying amount at 31 Dec 12,986 13,588 Impairment testing The Groups impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit CGU is performed as at 1 July each year.
A review for indicators of impairment is undertaken at each subsequent quarter-end and as at 31 December 2018.
No indicators of impairment were identified as part of these reviews.
Basis of the recoverable amount The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use VIU at each respective testing date for 2017 and 2018.
For each CGU, the VIU is calculated by discounting managements cash flow projections for the CGU.
The key assumptions used in the VIU calculation for each significant CGU are discussed below.
Key assumptions in VIU calculation Nominal Nominal growth rate growth rate beyond initial beyond initial Goodwill at cash flow Goodwill at Discount cash flow Discount 1 Jul 2018 rate projections 1 Jul 2017 rate projections $m % % $m % % Cash-generating unit Europe RBWM 3,565 8.1 3.8 3,508 8.9 3.7 CMB 2,626 9.4 3.7 2,570 9.9 3.6 Global GB&M 4,045 9.8 5.6 4,000 10.6 5.8 272 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 At 1 July 2018, aggregate goodwill of $3,061m 1 July 2017: $3,059m had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually significant.
The Groups CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill.
Managements judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU The cash flow projections for each CGU are based on plans approved by the GMB.
For the goodwill impairment test conducted at 1 July 2018, managements cash flow projections until the end of 2022 were used.
Discount rate The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a capital asset pricing model CAPM.
CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are based on the markets assessment of the economic variables and managements judgement.
The discount rates for each CGU are refined to reflect the rates of inflation for the countries within which the CGU operate.
In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with the cost of capital rates produced by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets.
Nominal long-term growth rate The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of business units making up the CGUs.
These growth rates reflect GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates or from which it derives revenue.
Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU At 1 July 2018, none of the CGUs were sensitive to reasonably possible adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the recoverable amount.
In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of each input to the model, such as the external range of discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business When calculating the present value of in-force long-term PVIF insurance business, expected cash flows are projected after adjusting for a variety of assumptions made by each insurance operation to reflect local market conditions and managements judgement of future trends, and uncertainty in the underlying assumptions is reflected by applying margins as opposed to a cost of capital methodology.
Variations in actual experience and changes to assumptions can contribute to volatility in the results of the insurance business.
Actuarial Control Committees of each key insurance entity meet on a quarterly basis to review and approve PVIF assumptions.
All changes to non-economic assumptions, economic assumptions that are not observable and model methodologies must be approved by the Actuarial Control Committee.
Movements in PVIF 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m As at 31 Dec 2017 6,610 6,502 Impact on transition to IFRS 9 78 N A At 1 Jan 6,532 6,502 Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business 673 24 value of new business written during the year 1,117 919 1 expected return 719 599 assumption changes and experience variances see below 292 280 other adjustments 17 16 Exchange differences and other movements 56 84 At 31 Dec 7,149 6,610 1 Expected return represents the unwinding of the discount rate and reversal of expected cash flows for the period.
Assumption changes and experience variances Included within this line item are: $ 56 m 2017: $ 98 m, directly offsetting regulatory-driven changes to the valuation of liabilities under insurance contracts.
$455m 2017: $ 141 m, reflecting the future expected sharing of returns with policyholders on contracts with discretionary participation features DPF, to the extent this sharing is not already included in liabilities under insurance contracts.
$ 107 m 2017: $ 41 m, driven by other assumptions changes and experience variances.
Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations Economic assumptions are set in a way that is consistent with observable market values.
The valuation of PVIF is sensitive to observed market movements and the impact of such changes is included in the sensitivities presented below.
2018 2017 1 1 Hong Kong France Hong Kong France % % % % Weighted average risk-free rate 2.29 1.52 2.02 1.50 Weighted average risk discount rate 5.90 2.35 6.20 2.20 Expense inflation 3.00 1.70 3.00 1.48 1 For 2018, the calculation of Frances PVIF assumes a risk discount rate of 2.35% 2017: 2.20% plus a risk margin of $109m 2017: $80m.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 273 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Sensitivity to changes in economic assumptions The Group sets the risk discount rate applied to the PVIF calculation by starting from a risk-free rate curve and adding explicit allowances for risks not reflected in the best-estimate cash flow modelling.
Where the insurance operations provide options and guarantees to policyholders the cost of these options and guarantees is an explicit reduction to PVIF, unless it is already allowed for as an explicit addition to the technical provisions required by regulators.
See page 145 for further details of these guarantees and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
Sensitivity to changes in non-economic assumptions Policyholder liabilities and PVIF are determined by reference to non-economic assumptions, including mortality and or morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates.
See page 146 for further details on the impact of changes in non-economic assumptions on our insurance manufacturing operations.
22 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m Prepayments and accrued income 8,715 7,929 1, 2 Settlement accounts 13,957 N A 1, 2 Cash collateral and margin receivables 33,202 N A Assets held for sale 735 781 Bullion 13,753 13,128 Endorsements and acceptances 9,623 9,750 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts Note 4 2,506 2,471 Employee benefit assets Note 6 7,934 8,752 Property, plant and equipment 10,060 10,027 Other accounts 10,086 14,353 At 31 Dec 110,571 67,191 1 Settlement accounts, cash collateral and margin receivables were reclassified from Trading assets to Other assets on 1 January 2018 and comparative data was not restated.
See Note 37 for further details.
2 Settlement accounts, cash collateral and margin receivables were reclassified from Loans and advances to banks and customers to Other assets on 1 January 2018.
This reclassification is to better reflect the nature of these balances and ensure consistency of presentation.
Comparative data was not restated as the reclassification is not significant in the context of other changes to the balance sheet resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9.
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets include $74,151m 2017: $30,431m of financial assets, the majority of which are measured at amortised cost.
23 Trading liabilities 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m 1, 2 Deposits by banks 4,871 23,297 1, 2, 3 Customer accounts 8,614 52,595 4 Other debt securities in issue Note 25 1,400 40,734 Other liabilities net short positions in securities 69,546 67,735 At 31 Dec 84,431 184,361 1 Deposits by banks and Customer accounts include repos, stock lending and other amounts.
2 Settlement accounts, cash collateral and margin payables included within Deposits by banks and Customer accounts were reclassified from Trading liabilities to Other liabilities on 1 January 2018.
Structured liabilities have moved from Trading liabilities to Financial liabilities designated at fair value.
3 Structured deposits placed at HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Trust Company Delaware National Association are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a US government agency, up to $250,000 per depositor.
4 Other debt securities in issue comprises structured notes issued by HSBC for which market risks are actively managed as part of trading portfolios.
24 Financial liabilities designated at fair value HSBC 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m 1 Deposits by banks and customer accounts 19,003 145 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 5,458 5,635 1 Debt securities in issue Note 25 109,351 64,359 Subordinated liabilities Note 28 14,282 23,831 Preferred securities Note 28 411 459 At 31 Dec 148,505 94,429 1 Structured liabilities have moved from Trading liabilities to Financial liabilities designated at fair value.
Comparatives have not been restated.
See Note 37 for further detail.
274 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $11,496m less than the contractual amount at maturity 2017:$5,343m more.
The cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was $209m 2017: loss of $4,107m.
HSBC Holdings 2018 2017 $m $m Debt securities in issue Note 25 17,767 17,496 Subordinated liabilities Note 28 7,282 13,394 At 31 Dec 25,049 30,890 The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $920m more than the contractual amount at maturity 2017: $3,370m more.
The cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of $812m 2017: loss of $2,209m.
25 Debt securities in issue HSBC 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m Bonds and medium-term notes 162,277 146,539 Other debt securities in issue 33,816 23,100 Total debt securities in issue 196,093 169,639 Included within: 1 trading liabilities Note 23 1,400 40,734 1 financial liabilities designated at fair value Note 24 109,351 64,359 At 31 Dec 85,342 64,546 1 Structured liabilities including debt securities in issue have moved from Trading liabilities to Financial liabilities designated at fair value.
HSBC Holdings 2018 2017 $m $m Debt securities 68,567 51,754 Included within: financial liabilities designated at fair value Note 24 17,767 17,496 At 31 Dec 50,800 34,258 26 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m Accruals and deferred income 11,296 11,521 1 N A Settlement accounts 13,022 1 N A Cash collateral and margin payables 41,044 Endorsements and acceptances 9,633 9,746 Employee benefit liabilities Note 6 2,167 2,152 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 313 1,286 Other liabilities 19,905 21,202 At 31 Dec 97,380 45,907 1 Settlement accounts, cash collateral and margin payables were reclassified from Trading liabilities, Deposits by banks and Customer accounts to Other liabilities on 1 January 2018.
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities include $87,390m 2017: $34,048m of financial liabilities, the majority of which are measured at amortised cost.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 275 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements 27 Provisions Legal proceedings Restructuring and regulatory Customer Other costs matters remediation provisions Total $m $m $m $m $m Provisions excluding contractual commitments At 31 Dec 2017 334 1,501 1,454 469 3,758 Additions 73 1,132 288 232 1,725 Amounts utilised 158 1,255 838 143 2,394 Unused amounts reversed 107 279 90 131 607 Exchange and other movements 12 29 26 70 79 At 31 Dec 2018 130 1,128 788 357 2,403 1 Contractual commitments At 31 Dec 2017 253 Impact on transition to IFRS 9 284 Net change in expected credit loss provision and other movements 20 At 31 Dec 2018 517 Total Provisions At 31 Dec 2017 4,011 At 31 Dec 2018 2,920 Legal proceedings Restructuring Contractual and regulatory Customer Other 1 costs commitments matters remediation provisions Total $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2017 551 298 2,436 1,124 364 4,773 Additions 204 87 829 820 280 2,220 Amounts utilised 353 3 850 543 133 1,882 Unused amounts reversed 103 135 980 52 107 1,377 Exchange and other movements 35 6 66 105 65 277 At 31 Dec 2017 334 253 1,501 1,454 469 4,011 1 The contractual commitments provision at 31 December 2017 represented IAS 37 provisions on off-balance sheet loan commitments and guarantees, for which expected credit losses are provided following transition to IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018.
It further includes provisions in respect of insurance contracts.
Further details of Legal proceedings and regulatory matters are set out in Note 35.
Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies whether by way of claim or counterclaim, or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings.
Regulatory matters refer to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.
Customer remediation refers to HSBCs activities to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations or to treat customers fairly.
Customer remediation is often initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints and or industry developments in sales practices, and is not necessarily initiated by regulatory action.
Further details of customer remediation are set out in this note.
Refer to Note 37 for further information on the impact of IFRS 9 on undrawn loan commitments and financial guarantees, presented in Contractual commitments.
This provision results from the adoption of IFRS 9 and has no comparatives.
Further analysis of the movement in the expected credit loss provision is disclosed within the 'Reconciliation of allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees' table on page 100.
Payment protection insurance At 31 December 2018, $555m 2017: $1,174m of the customer remediation provision relates to the estimated liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of payment protection insurance PPI policies in previous years.
An increase in provisions of $79m was recognised during the second half of 2018, primarily reflecting an adjustment to expected future complaint volumes as a result of increased levels of observed complaints and of information requests during the year.
The estimated liability for redress is calculated on the basis of the total premiums paid by the customer plus simple interest of 8% per annum or the rate inherent in the related loan product where higher.
The basis for calculating the redress liability is the same for single premium and regular premium policies.
Future estimated redress levels are based on the historically observed redress per policy.
A total of 5.4 million PPI policies have been sold since 2000, generating estimated revenue of $3.3bn at 2018.
The gross written premiums on these policies were approximately $4.4bn.
At 31 December 2018, the estimated total complaints expected to be received were 2.3 million, representing 42% of total policies sold.
It is estimated that contact will be made with regard to 2.6 million policies, representing 49% of total policies sold.
This estimate includes inbound complaints as well as the Groups proactive contact exercise on certain policies outbound contact.
276 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The following table details the cumulative number of complaints received at 31 December 2018 and the number of claims expected in the future: Cumulative PPI complaints received to 31 December 2018 and future claims expected Cumulative actual to Future Footnotes 31 Dec 2018 expected 1 Inbound complaints 000s of policies 1,777 183 Outbound contact 000s of policies 685 Response rate to outbound contact 44% n a 2 Average uphold rate per claim 77% 83% Average redress per claim $ 2,729 3,130 Complaints to Financial Ombudsman Service 000s of policies 166 9 Average uphold rate per Financial Ombudsman Service claim 38% 32% 1 Excludes invalid claims for which no PPI policy exists.
2 Claims include inbound and responses to outbound contact.
A 100,000 increase decrease in the total inbound complaints would increase decrease the redress provision by approximately $260m at 2018 average exchange rates.
28 Subordinated liabilities HSBCs subordinated liabilities 2018 2017 $m $m At amortised cost 22,437 19,826 subordinated liabilities 20,651 17,988 preferred securities 1,786 1,838 Designated at fair value Note 24 14,693 24,290 subordinated liabilities 14,282 23,831 preferred securities 411 459 At 31 Dec 37,130 44,116 Issued by HSBC subsidiaries 13,168 15,470 Issued by HSBC Holdings 23,962 28,646 Subordinated liabilities rank behind senior obligations and generally count towards the capital base of HSBC.
Capital securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator.
If not redeemed at the first call date, coupons payable maystep up orbecome floating rate based on interbank rates.
Oncapital securities other than floating rate notes, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 10.176%.
The balance sheet amounts disclosed in the following table are presented on an IFRS basis and do not reflect the amount that the instruments contribute to regulatory capital principally due to regulatory amortisation and regulatory eligibility limits.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 277 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements HSBCs subordinated liabilities in issue 2018 2017 Footnotes First call date Maturity date $m $m 1 Additional tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings plc $900m 10.176% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities, series 2 Jun 2030 892 892 892 892 1 Additional tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc 300m 5.862% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Apr 2020 411 459 700m 5.844% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Nov 2031 894 946 1,305 1,405 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank plc $750m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Jun 1990 750 750 $500m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Sep 1990 500 500 $300m Undated floating rate primary capital notes, series 3 Jun 1992 300 300 $300m 7.65% subordinated notes May 2025 300 375 1,850 1,925 2 350m 5.00% callable subordinated notes Mar 2018 Mar 2023 496 300m 6.50% subordinated notes Jul 2023 382 405 3 350m 5.375% callable subordinated step-up notes Nov 2025 Nov 2030 513 584 500m 5.375% subordinated notes Aug 2033 757 912 225m 6.25% subordinated notes Jan 2041 286 303 600m 4.75% subordinated notes Mar 2046 758 802 4,546 5,427 Tier 2 securities issued by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd $400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes third series Jul 1991 400 400 400 400 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad MYR500m 5.05% subordinated bonds Nov 2022 Nov 2027 121 123 121 123 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC USA Inc. $750m 5.00% subordinated notes Sep 2020 747 748 $250m 7.20% subordinated debentures Jul 2097 221 221 4 Other subordinated liabilities each less than $150m 269 277 1,237 1,246 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA, N. A.
$1,250m 4.875% subordinated notes Aug 2020 1,226 1,236 $1,000m 5.875% subordinated notes Nov 2034 1,106 1,272 $750m 5.625% subordinated notes Aug 2035 829 955 $700m 7.00% subordinated notes Jan 2039 697 700 3,858 4,163 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Finance Corporation 5 $2,939m 6.676% senior subordinated notes Jan 2021 507 1,092 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Canada Other subordinated liabilities each less than $150m Oct 1996 Nov 2083 29 31 29 31 Securities issued by HSBC Mexico, S. A.
6, 7 $300m Non-convertible subordinated obligations Jun 2014 Jun 2019 240 2, 6 Other subordinated liability less than $150m 115 355 Securities issued by other HSBC subsidiaries 4 Other subordinated liabilities each less than $200m 273 336 8 Subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries at 31 Dec 13,168 15,470 1 See paragraph below, Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc.
2 These securities were redeemed in the first quarter of 2018.
3 The interest rate payable after November 2025 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.50% percentage points.
4 Some securities included here are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC.
5 HSBC tendered for these securities in 2017.
In January 2018, a further tender was conducted.
The principal balance is now $507m.
The original notional of these securities is $2,939m.
6 These securities are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC.
7 Approximately $60m of these securities were held by HSBC Holdings.
8 Information regarding the effects of adoption of IFRS 9 can be found in Note 37.
HSBC Holdings subordinated liabilities 2018 2017 $m $m At amortised cost 17,715 15,877 Designated at fair value Note 24 7,282 13,394 At 31 Dec 24,997 29,271 278 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 HSBC Holdings subordinated liabilities in issue First call Maturity 2018 2017 Footnotes date date $m $m Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Holdings plc Amounts owed to third parties 2,3 $2,000m 4.25% subordinated notes Mar 2024 2,001 2,038 2 $1,500m 4.25% subordinated notes Aug 2025 1,494 1,586 2 $1,500m 4.375% subordinated notes Nov 2026 1,470 1,580 1 $488m 7.625% subordinated notes May 2032 549 553 1 $222m 7.35% subordinated notes Nov 2032 246 248 1 $2,000m 6.5% subordinated notes May 2036 2,040 2,042 1 $2,500m 6.5% subordinated notes Sep 2037 2,419 3,365 1 $1,500m 6.8% subordinated notes Jun 2038 1,489 1,489 2,3 $1,500m 5.25% subordinated notes Mar 2044 1,661 1,755 2 650m 5.75% subordinated notes Dec 2027 960 1,114 2 650m 6.75% subordinated notes Sep 2028 826 873 2 750m 7.0% subordinated notes Apr 2038 992 1,043 2 900m 6.0% subordinated notes Mar 2040 1,156 1,199 2 1,600m 6.25% subordinated notes Mar 2018 1,918 2 1,750m 6.0% subordinated notes Jun 2019 2,125 2,349 2,3 1,500m 3.375% subordinated notes Jan 2019 Jan 2024 1,719 1,827 2 1,500m 3.0% subordinated notes Jun 2025 1,725 2,037 2 1,000m 3.125% subordinated notes Jun 2028 1,233 1,363 24,105 28,379 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings $900m 10.176% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2030 Jun 2040 892 892 892 892 At 31 Dec 24,997 29,271 1 Amounts owed to third parties represent securities included in the capital base of HSBC as tier 2 securities in accordance with the grandfathering provisions under CRD IV rules.
2 These securities are included in the capital base of HSBC as fully CRD IV-compliant tier 2 securities on an end point basis.
3 These subordinated notes are measured at amortised cost in HSBC Holdings, where the interest rate risk is hedged using a fair value hedge, while they are measured at fair value in the Group.
Additional tier 1 capital securities Additional tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred or cancelled at the discretion of HSBC.
The securities presented in this Note are accounted for as liabilities because HSBC has an obligation to pay dividends in perpetuity.
See Note 32 for additional tier 1 capital securities accounted for as equity.
The additional tier 1 securities presented in this section do not meet the identifying criteria in full for recognition as tier 1 capital under CRD IV, but are eligible as regulatory capital subject to grandfathering limits and progressive phase-out.
Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc Capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc were issued by the Jersey limited partnerships.
The proceeds of these were lent to the respective guarantors by the limited partnerships in the form of subordinated notes.
They qualify as additional tier 1 capital for HSBC under CRD IV by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions, and the two capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc also qualify as additional tier1 capital for HSBC Bank plc on a solo and a consolidated basis under CRD IV by virtue of the same grandfathering process.
These preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with economic rights equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares ofthe relevant issuer.
There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBCs capital adequacy requirements, or if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc has insufficient distributable reserves as defined.
HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank plc have individually covenanted that, if prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the preferred securities in full, they will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect oftheir ordinary shares, or repurchase or redeem their ordinary shares, until the distribution on the preferred securities has been paid in full.
If the consolidated total capital ratio of HSBC Holdings falls below the regulatory minimum required, or if the Directors expect it to do so in the near term, provided that proceedings have not been commenced for the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of HSBC Holdings, the holders interests in the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings will be exchanged for interests in preference shares issued by HSBC Holdings that have economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to the preferred securities and their guarantee.
If any of the two issues guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc are outstanding in April 2049 or November 2048 respectively, or if the consolidated total capital ratio of HSBC Bank plc falls below the regulatory minimum required, or if the Directors expect it to do so in the near term, provided that proceedings have not been commenced for the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of HSBC Bank plc, the holders interests in the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc will be exchanged for interests in preference shares issued by HSBC Bank plc that have economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to the preferred securities and their guarantee.
Tier 2 capital securities Tier 2 capital securities are either perpetual or dated subordinated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons.
These capital securities are included within HSBC's regulatory capital base as tier 2 capital under CRD IV by virtue of the application of HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 279 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements grandfathering provisions with the exception of identified securities that are compliant with CRD IV end point rules.
In accordance with CRD IV, the capital contribution of all tier 2 securities is amortised for regulatory purposes in their final five years before maturity.
29 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments The table on page 281 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by residual contractual maturity at the balance sheet date.
These balances are included in the maturity analysis as follows: Trading assets and liabilities including trading derivatives but excluding reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue are included in the Due not more than 1 month time bucket, because trading balances are typically held for short periods of time.
Financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity such as equity securities are included in the Due over 5years time bucket.
Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period, which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled to give.
Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual contracts are included in the Dueover 5 years time bucket.
Non-financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis of the contractual maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction.
Liabilities under insurance contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Liabilities under investment contracts areclassified in accordance with their contractual maturity.
Undated investment contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket, however, such contracts are subject to surrender and transfer options by the policyholders.
Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down.
2 Structured liabilities have moved from Trading liabilities to Financial liabilities designated at fair value.
3 31 December 2017 balances have been restated to include $44bn of loan commitments given unsettled reverse repurchase agreements and $30bn of loan commitments received unsettled repurchase agreements not previously identified for disclosure.
The $30bn of loan commitments received are reported within Due not more than 1 month.
282 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 HSBC Holdings Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 3,509 3,509 Derivatives 540 167 707 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 3,052 11,563 158 968 1 14,062 26,340 56,144 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings designated and otherwise mandatorily measured 8,116 15,397 23,513 at fair value Financial investments in HSBC undertakings Accrued income and other financial assets 33 27 60 Total financial assets at 31 Dec 2018 7,134 11,590 158 968 1 22,178 41,904 83,933 Non-financial assets 161,248 161,248 Total assets at 31 Dec 2018 7,134 11,590 158 968 1 22,178 203,152 245,181 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 949 949 Financial liabilities designated at fairvalue 2,125 12,306 10,618 25,049 debt securities in issue 12,306 5,461 17,767 subordinated liabilities and preferred securities 2,125 5,157 7,282 Derivatives 1,321 339 499 2,159 Debt securities in issue 23,770 27,030 50,800 Accruals and other financial liabilities 319 353 188 36 5 41 942 Subordinated liabilities 17,715 17,715 31 Dec 2018 1,640 1,302 2,313 36 5 36,415 55,903 97,614 Non-financial liabilities 214 214 Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2018 1,640 1,302 2,313 36 5 36,415 56,117 97,828 Off-balance sheet commitments Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments tolend HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 283 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments continued Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 1,985 1,985 Derivatives 1,952 80 356 2,388 Loans and advances to HSBC 4,861 13,039 3,145 5 2 1,134 29,560 24,881 76,627 undertakings Loans and advances to HSBC 2,411 9,533 11,944 undertakings designated at fair value Financial investments in HSBC 17 3 1,798 2,446 undertakings 4,264 Accrued income and other financial 4 123 127 assets Total financial assets at 31Dec2017 8,815 13,046 3,145 5 2 1,214 33,769 37,339 97,335 Non-financial assets 94,399 94,399 Total assets at 31 Dec 2017 8,815 13,046 3,145 5 2 1,214 33,769 131,738 191,734 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 120 2,405 46 2,571 Financial liabilities designated at fair 2,349 11,491 17,050 30,890 value debt securities in issue 11,491 6,005 17,496 subordinated liabilities and preferred 2,349 11,045 13,394 securities Derivatives 2,008 110 183 781 3,082 Debt securities in issue 1,081 10,354 22,823 34,258 Accruals and other financial liabilities 439 395 157 39 7 3 1 11 1,052 Subordinated liabilities 1,918 13,959 15,877 Total financial liabilities at 31Dec 2017 2,567 4,718 203 39 1,088 2,462 22,029 54,624 87,730 Non-financial liabilities 217 217 Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2017 2,567 4,718 203 39 1,088 2,462 22,029 54,841 87,947 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 30 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities In the following table, the Amounts not set off in the balance sheet include transactions where: the counterparty has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and a master netting or similar arrangement is in place with a right to set off only in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy, or the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied: and in the case of derivatives and reverse repurchase repurchase, stock borrowing lending and similar agreements, cash and non-cash collateral has been received pledged.
For risk management purposes, the net amounts of loans and advances to customers are subject to limits, which are monitored and the relevant customer agreements are subject to review and updated, as necessary, to ensure the legal right to set off remains appropriate.
The amount of cash margin paid that had been offset against the gross derivatives liabilities was $5,888m 2017: $5,196m.
2 For the amount of repos, reverse repos, stock lending, stock borrowing and similar agreements recognised on the balance sheet within Trading assets $18,280m 2017: $17,120m and Trading liabilities $12,493m 2017: $10,618m, see the Funding sources and uses table on page 134.
3 At 31 December 2018, the total amount of Loans and advances to customers was $981,696m 2017: $962,964m, of which $28,066m 2017: $31,667m was subject to offsetting.
4 At 31 December 2018, the total amount of Customer accounts was $1,362,643m 2017: $1,364,462m, of which $27,818m 2017:$32,109m was subject to offsetting.
5 These exposures continue to be secured by financial collateral, but we may not have sought or been able to obtain a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the right of offset.
31 Non-controlling interests 2018 2017 $m $m Non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries 7,996 7,621 At 31 Dec 7,996 7,621 Hang Seng Bank Limited is the only subsidiary in the Group that gives rise to significant non-controlling interest.
For summarised financial information of Hang Seng Bank Limited, see Note 19.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 285 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements 32 Called up share capital and other equity instruments Called up share capital and share premium HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of $0.50 each, issued and fully paid 2018 2017 Footnotes Number $m Number $m At 1 Jan 20,320,716,258 10,160 20,191,586,214 10,096 Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 83,740,460 42 76,701,249 38 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 166,850,869 83 380,652,196 190 Less: Shares repurchased and cancelled 210,466,091 105 328,223,401 164 1 At 31 Dec 20,360,841,496 10,180 20,320,716,258 10,160 HSBC Holdings 6.20% non-cumulative US Dollar Preference Shares, Series A 2018 2017 Footnotes Number $m Number $m 2 At 1 Jan and 31 Dec 1,450,000 1,450,000 HSBC Holdings share premium 2018 2017 $m $m At 31 Dec 13,609 10,177 Total called up share capital and share premium 2018 2017 $m $m At 31 Dec 23,789 20,337 1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue, excluding 325,273,407 shares held in treasury, confer identical rights, including in respect of capital, dividends and voting.
2 Included in the capital base of HSBC as additional tier 1 capital in accordance with the CRD IV rules, by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions.
HSBC Holdings 6.20% non-cumulative US dollar preference shares, Series A of $0.01 HSBC Holdings pays dividends on 6.20% non-cumulative US dollar preference shares, Series A of $0.01 each dollar preference shares quarterly, at the discretion of the Board.
The Board will not declare a dividend on them if this would stop the company from meeting the PRAs capital adequacy requirements, or if profit available for distribution as dividends is insufficient to also pay dividends on other shares that are equally entitled and scheduled on the same date.
HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on shares ranking lower in the right to dividends than dollar preference shares, or redeem or purchase any of its other shares ranking equal or lower than dollar preference shares, unless it has fully paid, or set aside an amount to fully pay, the dividends on the dollar preference shares for the then current dividend period.
The dollar preference shares carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares.
Holders of dollar preference shares are only entitled to attend and vote at shareholder meetings if dividends on these shares have not been paid in full on four consecutive dividend payment dates.
In such circumstances, holders of these shares are entitled to vote at shareholder meetings until HSBC Holdings has paid a full dividend on them.
These securities can be redeemed by HSBC at any time, subject to prior approval by the PRA.
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of 0.01 The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of 0.01 sterling preference share has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings.
Dividends are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board.
The sterling preference share carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no right to attend or vote at shareholder meetings of HSBC Holdings.
Other equity instruments HSBC Holdings includes three types of additional tier 1 capital securities in its tier 1 capital.
Two are presented in this Note and are accounted for as equity because HSBC does not have an obligation to transfer cash or a variable number of its own ordinary shares to holders under any circumstances outside its control.
See Note 28 for additional tier 1 securities accounted for as liabilities.
Additional tier 1 capital securities Additional tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred at HSBC Holdings discretion.
While any coupon payments are unpaid or deferred, HSBC Holdings will not declare or pay dividends or make distributions or similar periodic payments in respect of any securities of lower or equal rank, or repurchase or redeem them.
Such securities do not generally carry voting rights, but rank higher than ordinary shares for coupon payments, and in the event of a winding-up.
They do not meet the identifying criteria in full for recognition as tier 1 capital under CRD IV, but are eligible as regulatory capital subject to grandfathering limits and progressive phase-out.
At HSBC Holdings discretion, and subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the capital securities may be exchanged on any coupon payment date for non-cumulative preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and ranking pari passu with the dollar and sterling preference shares in issue.
The preference shares were issued at a nominal value of $0.01 per share and a premium of $24.99 per share, with both amounts being subscribed and fully paid.
These securities were redeemed by HSBC in June 2018.
286 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 HSBCs additional tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for in equity 2018 2017 First call date $m $m $2,200m 8.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities Apr 2013 2,133 $3,800m 8.000% perpetual subordinated capital securities, Series 2 Dec 2015 3,718 At 31 Dec 5,851 Additional tier 1 capital contingent convertible securities During 2018, HSBC continued to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in its capital base as fully CRD IV-compliant additional tier 1 capital securities on an end point basis.
The net proceeds of the issuances are used for general corporate purposes and to further strengthen its capital base to meet requirements under CRD IV.
These securities bear a fixed rate of interest until their initial call dates.
After the initial call dates, if they are not redeemed, the securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for 5-year periods based on prevailing market rates.
Interest on the contingent convertible securities will be due and payable only at the sole discretion of HSBC, and HSBC has sole and absolute discretion at all times to cancel for any reason in whole or in part any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any payment date.
Distributions will not be paid if they are prohibited under UK banking regulations, or if the company has insufficient reserves or fails to meet the solvency conditions defined in the securities terms.
The contingent convertible securities are undated and are repayable, at the option of HSBC, in whole at the initial call date, or on any fifth anniversary after this date.
In addition, the securities are repayable at the option of HSBC in whole for certain regulatory or tax reasons.
Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA.
These securities rank pari passu with HSBCs dollar and sterling preference shares and are therefore ahead of ordinary shares.
The contingent convertible securities will be converted into fully paid ordinary shares of HSBC at a predetermined price, should HSBCs consolidated end point CET1 ratio fall below 7.0%.
Therefore, in accordance with the terms of the securities, if the end point CET1 ratio breaches the 7.0% trigger, the securities will convert into ordinary shares at fixed contractual conversion prices in the issuance currencies of the relevant securities, equivalent to 2.70 at the prevailing rate of exchange on the issuance date, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments.
HSBCs additional tier 1 capital contingent convertible securities in issue which are accounted for in equity 2018 2017 First call date $m $m $1,500m 5.625% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jan 2020 1,494 1,494 $2,000m 6.875% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jun 2021 1,998 1,998 $2,250m 6.375% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2024 2,244 2,244 $2,450m 6.375% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Mar 2025 2,460 2,460 $3,000m 6.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities May 2027 2,997 2,997 $2,350m 6.250% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Mar 2023 2,347 $1,800m 6.500% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Mar 2028 1,798 1,500m 5.250% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2022 1,943 1,943 1,000m 6.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2023 1,120 1,120 1,250m 4.750% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jul 2029 1,420 1,420 1,000m 5.875% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2026 1,299 SGD1,000m 4.700% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jun 2022 723 723 SGD750m 5.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2023 549 At 31 Dec 22,392 16,399 Shares under option For details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, see Note 6.
Aggregate options outstanding under these plans 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Number of Number of HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 57,065,513 2018 to 2024 4.0472 5.9640 64,604,932 2017 to 2023 4.0472 5.9640 N A N A 36,309 2017 to 2018 HK$55.4701 N A N A 10,539 2017 to 2018 5.3532 N A N A 17,873 2017 to 2018 $7.1456 Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares At 31 December 2018, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option arrangements and the HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan, together with GPSP awards, long-term incentive awards and deferred share awards granted under the HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 152,667,912 2017: 169,615,437.
The total number of shares at 31December 2018 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 5,928,890 2017: 5,883,444.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 287 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements 33 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 1 HSBC HSBC Holdings 2018 2017 2018 2017 Footnotes $m $m $m $m Guarantees and other contingent liabilities: 2 financial guarantees 23,518 25,849 8,627 7,778 3 performance and other guarantees 71,484 67,007 other contingent liabilities 1,408 616 215 At 31 Dec 96,410 93,472 8,842 7,778 4 Commitments: documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 7,083 8,776 3 forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 67,265 48,192 standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 705,918 672,518 At 31 Dec 780,266 729,486 1 Guarantees by HSBC Holdings are all in favour of other Group entities.
2 Financial guarantees to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied have been presented separately from other guarantees to align with credit risk disclosures.
Comparatives have been re-presented accordingly.
3 The 31 December 2017 balances have been restated to include $44bn of loan commitments unsettled reverse repurchase agreements and $3bn of performance and other guarantees not previously identified for disclosure.
4 Includes $592,008m of commitments at 31 December 2018, to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied where HSBC has become party to an irrevocable commitment.
The preceding table discloses the nominal principal amounts of off-balance sheet liabilities and commitments for the Group, which represent the maximum amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and the clients default.
As a significant portion of guarantees and commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not indicative of future liquidity requirements.
The expected credit loss provision relating to guarantees and commitments under IFRS 9 is disclosed in Note 27.
Approximately half the guarantees have a term of less than one year, while guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBCs annual credit review process.
Contingent liabilities arising from legal proceedings, regulatory and other matters against Group companies are disclosed in Notes 27 and 35.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS has provided compensation to consumers following the collapse of a number of deposit takers.
The compensation paid out to consumers was funded through loans from HM Treasury, which have now been repaid 2017: $6.3bn 4.7bn.
The Group could be liable to pay a proportion of any future amounts that the FSCS borrows from HM Treasury.
The ultimate FSCS levy to the industry as a result of a collapse cannot currently be estimated reliably, as it is dependent on various uncertain factors, including the potential recoveries of assets by the FSCS and changes in the level of protected deposits and the population of FSCS members at the time.
Associates HSBCs share of associates contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees amounted to $48.5bn at 31 December 2018 2017: $46.3bn.
No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable.
34 Lease commitments Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2018, future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for land, buildings and equipment were $3,435m 2017: $3,950m.
Finance lease receivables HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets such as aircraft, property and general plant and machinery.
At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms.
Rentals are calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income.
2018 2017 Total future Unearned Total future Unearned minimum finance Present minimum finance Present payments income value payments income value $m $m $m $m $m $m Lease receivables: No later than one year 2,229 196 2,033 3,523 326 3,197 Later than one year and no later than fiveyears 7,420 628 6,792 7,033 696 6,337 Later than five years 5,032 619 4,413 4,784 669 4,115 At 31 Dec 14,681 1,443 13,238 15,340 1,691 13,649 288 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business operations.
Apart from the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters are material.
The recognition of provisions is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 1.
While the outcome of legal proceedings and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of these matters as at 31 December 2018 see Note 27.
Where an individual provision is material, the fact that a provision has been made is stated and quantified, except to the extent that doing so would be seriously prejudicial.
Any provision recognised does not constitute an admission of wrongdoing or legal liability.
It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate ofpotential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory matters as a class of contingent liabilities.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC Bernard L. Madoff Madoff was arrested in December 2008 and later pleaded guilty to running a Ponzi scheme.
His firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC Madoff Securities, is being liquidated in the US by a trustee the Trustee.
Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities.
Based on information provided by Madoff Securities as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was $8.4bn, including fictitious profits reported by Madoff.
Based on information available to HSBC, the funds actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities during the time HSBC serviced the funds are estimated to have totalled approximately $4bn.
Various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in lawsuits arising out of Madoff Securities fraud.
US litigation: The Trustee has brought lawsuits against various HSBC companies and others in the US Bankruptcy Court, seeking recovery of transfers from Madoff Securities to HSBC in an amount not yet pleaded or determined.
HSBC and other parties to the actions have moved to dismiss the Trustees claims.
The US Bankruptcy Court granted HSBCs motion to dismiss with respect to certain of the Trustees claims in November 2016.
In September 2017, the Trustee appealed the US Bankruptcy Courts decision, and the case remains pending before the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.
Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda Limited together, Fairfield in liquidation since July 2009 have brought a lawsuit in the US against fund shareholders, including HSBC companies that acted as nominees for clients, seeking restitution of redemption payments.
In December 2018, the US Bankruptcy Court issued an opinion, which ruled in favour of the defendants motion to dismiss in respect of certain claims by the liquidators for Fairfield and granted a motion by the liquidators for Fairfield to file amended complaints.
In December 2014, SPV Optimal SUS Ltd SPV OSUS, the purported assignee of the Madoff-invested company, Optimal Strategic US Equity Ltd, filed a lawsuit in New York state court against various HSBC companies and others, seeking damages on various alleged grounds, including breach of fiduciary duty and breach of trust.
In April 2018, HSBC transferred the case to the US District Court for the Southern District of New York the New York District Court.
In February 2019, SPV OSUS withdrew its action with prejudice against HSBC.
UK litigation: The Trustee has filed a claim against various HSBC companies in the High Court of England and Wales, seeking recovery of transfers from Madoff Securities to HSBC in an amount not yet pleaded or determined.
The deadline for service of the claim has been extended to September 2019 for UK-based defendants and November 2019 for all other defendants.
Bermuda litigation: In January 2009, Kingate Global Fund Limited and Kingate Euro Fund Limited together, Kingate brought an action against HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited HBBM for recovery of funds held in Kingates accounts, fees and dividends.
This action is pending, but is not expected to move forward until the resolution of the Trustees US actions against Kingate and HBBM.
Cayman Islands litigation: In February 2013, Primeo Fund Limited Primeo in liquidation since April 2009 brought an action against HSBC Securities Services Luxembourg HSSL and Bank of Bermuda Cayman Limited, alleging breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty and claiming damages and equitable compensation.
The trial concluded in February 2017 and, in August 2017, the court dismissed all claims against the defendants.
In September 2017, Primeo appealed to the Court of Appeal of the Cayman Islands and the defendants cross-appealed in respect of certain of the trial courts findings.
The appeals are pending before the court for a decision.
Luxembourg litigation: In April 2009, Herald Fund SPC Herald in liquidation since July 2013 brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking restitution of cash and securities that Herald purportedly lost because of Madoff Securities fraud, or money damages.
The Luxembourg District Court dismissed Heralds securities restitution claim, but reserved Heralds cash restitution claim and its claim for money damages.
Herald has appealed this judgment to the Luxembourg Court of Appeal, where the matter is pending.
In late 2018, Herald brought additional claims against HSSL and HSBC Bank plc before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking further restitution and damages.
In October 2009, Alpha Prime Fund Limited Alpha Prime brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking the restitution of securities, or the cash equivalent, or money damages.
This action has been temporarily suspended at the plaintiffs request.
In December 2018, Alpha Prime brought additional claims before the Luxembourg District Court seeking damages against various HSBC companies.
In December 2014, Senator Fund SPC Senator brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking restitution of securities, or the cash equivalent, or money damages.
In April 2015, Senator commenced a separate action against the Luxembourg branch of HSBCBank plc asserting identical claims before the Luxembourg District Court.
In December 2018, Senator brought additional claims against HSSL and HSBC Bank plc Luxembourg branch before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking restitution of Senators securities or money damages.
HSSL has also been named as a defendant in various actions by shareholders in Primeo Select Fund, Herald, Herald Lux SICAV and Hermes International Fund Limited.
Most of these actions have been dismissed, suspended or postponed.
Ireland litigation: In November 2013, Defender Limited brought an action against HSBC Institutional Trust Services Ireland Limited HTIE and others, based on allegations of breach of contract and claiming damages and indemnification for fund losses.
The trial commenced in October 2018.
In December 2018, the Irish High Court issued a judgment in HTIEs favour on a preliminary issue, holding that Defender Limited had no effective claim against HTIE.
This judgment concluded the trial without further issues in dispute being heard.
In February 2019, Defender Limited appealed the judgment.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 289 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements In December 2014, SPV OSUS filed an action against HTIE and HSBC Securities Services Ireland Limited alleging breach of contract and claiming damages and indemnification for fund losses, which was dismissed on the basis of a preliminary issue by the Irish High Court in October 2015.
In July 2018, following further appeals by SPV OSUS, the Irish Supreme Court affirmed the dismissal on a final basis.
There are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the various Madoff-related proceedings described above, including but not limited to the multiple jurisdictions in which the proceedings have been brought.
Based upon the information currently available, managements estimate of the possible aggregate damages that might arise asa result of all claims in the various Madoff-related proceedings is up to or exceeding $500m, excluding costs and interest.
Due to uncertainties and limitations of this estimate, the ultimate damages could differ significantly from this amount.
US mortgage securitisation activity and litigation HSBC Bank USA N. A. HSBC Bank USA was a sponsor or seller of loans used to facilitate whole loan securitisations underwritten by HSBC Securities USA Inc. HSI.
From 2005 to 2007, HSBC Bank USA purchased and sold approximately $24bn of such loans to HSI, which were subsequently securitised and sold by HSI to third parties.
The outstanding principal balance was approximately $3.8bn as at 31 December 2018.
In addition, HSI served as an underwriter on securitisations issued by HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance or third parties, and HSBC Bank USA served as a trustee on behalf of various mortgage securitisation trusts.
Mortgage trustee matters: Beginning in June 2014, a number of lawsuits were filed in state and federal courts in New York and Virginia against HSBC Bank USA as a trustee of more than 280 mortgage securitisation trusts.
These lawsuits are brought on behalf of the trusts by a putative class of investors including, among others, BlackRock and PIMCO funds.
The complaints allege that the trusts have sustained losses in collateral value of approximately $38bn.
The lawsuits seek unspecified damages resulting from alleged breaches of the US Trust Indenture Act, breach of fiduciary duty, negligence, breach of contract and breach of the common law duty of trust.
HSBCs motions to dismiss in several of these lawsuits were, for the most part, denied.
In February 2018, one of these matters was dismissed on procedural grounds.
The plaintiff in that action has appealed the decision and has also filed another proceeding in New York state court, which is currently stayed pending appeal.
The motion for class certification filed by certain plaintiffs has been denied, as has their request for a review of that decision by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.
There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of these matters.
Loan repurchase matters: Since 2013, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and Decision One Mortgage Company LLC Decision One, an indirect subsidiary of HSBC Finance, have been named as defendants in various mortgage loan repurchase actions brought by trustees of mortgage securitisation trusts.
One of the two remaining actions against HSBC Bank USA was dismissed on appeal in December 2017: however, the New York Court of Appeals granted the plaintiffs request for further review in September 2018.
The second remaining action is currently pending before the New York state court.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
RMBS investigations: Since 2010, various HSBC entities have received subpoenas and requests for information from the US Department of Justice the DoJ and the Massachusetts Attorney General, seeking the production of documents and information regarding HSBCs involvement in certain residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS transactions as an issuer, sponsor, underwriter, depositor, trustee, custodian or servicer.
In August and October 2018, HSBC resolved the Massachusetts Attorney Generals civil investigation, and the DoJs civil claims, relating to HSBCs legacy RMBS origination and securitisation activities from 2005 to 2007, which entailed a payment to the DoJ of a civil money penalty of $765m.
Anti-money laundering and sanctions-related matters In 2010, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease-and-desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC, and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HNAH entered into a consent cease-and-desist order with the Federal Reserve Board FRB.
In 2012, HSBC Bank USA further entered into an enterprise-wide compliance consent order with the OCC each an Order and together, the Orders.
These Orders required improvements to establish an effective compliance risk management programme across HSBCs US businesses, including risk management related to the Bank Secrecy Act BSA and anti-money laundering AML compliance.
In 2012, an additional consent order was entered into with the OCC that required HSBC Bank USA to correct the circumstances noted in the OCCs report and imposed restrictions on HSBC Bank USA acquiring control of, or holding an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, or commencing a new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, without the OCCs approval.
Between June and September 2018,  of the required remediation actions by HNAH and HSBC Bank USA, the FRB and OCC terminated each ofthese orders.
In December 2012, among other agreements, HSBC Holdings plc HSBC Holdings agreed to an undertaking with the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA and consented to a cease-and-desist order with the FRB, both of which contained certain forward-looking AML and sanctions-related obligations.
HSBC also agreed to retain an independent compliance monitor who is, for FCA purposes, a Skilled Person under section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act and, for FRB purposes, an Independent Consultant to produce periodic assessments of the Groups AML and sanctions compliance programme the Skilled Person Independent Consultant.
In December 2012, HSBC Holdings also entered into an agreement with the Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC regarding historical transactions involving parties subject to OFAC sanctions.
The Skilled Person Independent Consultant will continue to conduct country reviews and provide periodic reports for a period of time at the FCAs and FRBs discretion.
The role of the Skilled Person Independent Consultant is discussed on page 85.
Through the Skilled Person Independent Consultants country-level reviews, as well as internal reviews conducted by HSBC, certain potential AML and sanctions compliance issues have been identified that HSBC is reviewing further with the FRB, FCA and or OFAC.
The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the US Treasury Department, as well as the Civil Division of the US Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York, are investigating the collection and transmittal of third-party originator information in certain payments instructed over HSBCs proprietary payment systems.
The FCA is also conducting an investigation into HSBC Bank plcs compliance with UK money laundering regulations and financial crime systems and controls requirements.
HSBC is cooperating with all of these investigations.
In May 2014, a shareholder derivative action was filed by a shareholder of HSBC Holdings purportedly on behalf of HSBC Holdings, HSBC Bank USA, HNAH and HSBC USA Inc. the Nominal Corporate Defendants in New York state court against certain current and former directors and officers of those HSBC companies the Individual Defendants.
The complaint alleges that the Individual 290 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Nominal Corporate Defendants and caused a waste of corporate assets by allegedly permitting and or causing the conduct underlying the five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the DoJ, entered into in December 2012.
In November 2015, the New York state court granted the Nominal Corporate Defendants motion to dismiss.
In November 2018, the appellate court reversed the New York state courts decision and reinstated the action.
In December 2018, the Nominal Corporate Defendants filed a motion for reargument or, in the alternative, for leave to appeal to the New York Court of Appeals.
In February 2019, the Nominal Corporate Defendants and most of the Individual Defendants filed a motion to dismiss in the New York state court, where the matter is pending.
In July 2014, a claim was filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against HSBC Holdings and a former employee purportedly onbehalf of a class of persons who purchased HSBC common shares and American Depositary Shares between July 2006 and July 2012.
The complaint, which seeks monetary damages of up to CA$20bn, alleges that the defendants made statutory and common law misrepresentations in documents released by HSBC Holdings and its wholly owned indirect subsidiary, HSBC Bank Canada, relating to HSBCs compliance with BSA, AML, sanctions and other laws.
In September 2017, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice dismissed the statutory claims against HSBC Holdings and the former employee for lack of jurisdiction, and stayed the common law misrepresentation claim against HSBC Holdings on the basis of forum non conveniens.
In October 2017, the plaintiff appealed to the Court of Appeal for Ontario and, in July 2018, that appeal was dismissed.
In October 2018, the plaintiff applied for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada, where this matter is currently pending.
Since November 2014, a number of lawsuits have been filed in federal courts in the US against various HSBC companies and others on behalf of plaintiffs who are, or are related to, victims of terrorist attacks in the Middle East or of cartel violence in Mexico.
In each case, it is alleged that the defendants aided and abetted the unlawful conduct of various sanctioned parties in violation of the US Anti-Terrorism Act.
Nine actions are currently pending in federal court in New York, with one on appeal.
In July 2018, in one case, the New York District Court granted HSBCs motion to dismiss, while in a different case, the magistrate judge issued a recommendation that the New York District Court should deny the defendants motion to dismiss.
The plaintiffs appealed the decision in the case granting dismissal and that appeal is pending.
Motions to dismiss remain pending in two other cases.
In December 2018, three new cases and two cases relating to existing actions were filed in the New York District Court.
These new actions are at a very early stage.
In July 2018, a claim was issued against HSBC Holdings in the High Court of England and Wales alleging that HSBC Holdings made untrue and or misleading statements and or omissions in public statements between 2007 and 2012 regarding compliance by the HSBC Group with AML, anti-terrorist financing and sanctions laws, regulations and requirements, and the regulatory compliance of the HSBC Group more generally.
Tax-related investigations Various tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the US, Belgium, Argentina, India and Spain, are conducting investigations and reviews of HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA HSBC Swiss Private Bank and other HSBC companies in connection with allegations of tax evasion or tax fraud, money laundering and unlawful cross-border banking solicitation.
HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Internal Revenue Service regarding whether certain HSBC companies and employees, including those associated with HSBC Swiss Private Bank and an HSBC company in India, acted appropriately in relation to certain customers who may have had US tax reporting obligations.
In connection with these investigations, HSBC Swiss Private Bank, with due regard for Swiss law, has produced records and other documents to the DoJ.
In August 2013, the DoJ informed HSBC Swiss Private Bank that it was not eligible for the Program for Non-Prosecution Agreements or Non-Target Letters for Swiss Banks since a formal investigation had previously been authorised.
In November 2014, HSBC Swiss Private Bank was placed under formal criminal examination in Belgium for alleged tax-related offences.
In June 2017, Belgian authorities also placed HSBC Holdings and HSBC Private Bank Holdings Suisse SA, a Swiss holding company, under formal criminal examination.
HSBC is cooperating with this ongoing investigation.
In November 2014, the Argentine tax authority initiated a criminal action against various individuals, including current and former HSBC employees.
The criminal action includes allegations of tax evasion, conspiracy to launder undeclared funds and an unlawful association among HSBC Swiss Private Bank, HSBC Bank Argentina, HSBC Bank USA and certain HSBC employees, which allegedly enabled numerous HSBC customers to evade their Argentine tax obligations.
In February 2015, the Indian tax authority issued a summons and request for information to an HSBC company in India.
In August 2015 and November 2015, HSBC companies received notices issued by two offices of the Indian tax authority, alleging that the Indian tax authority had sufficient evidence to initiate prosecution against HSBC Swiss Private Bank and an HSBC company in Dubai for allegedly abetting tax evasion of four different Indian individuals and or families and requesting that the HSBC companies show cause as to why such prosecution should not be initiated.
HSBC Swiss Private Bank and the HSBC company in Dubai have responded to the show cause notices.
As at 31 December 2018, HSBC has recognised a provision for these various matters in the amount of $626m.
There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of these investigations andreviews.
Based on the information currently available, managements estimate of the possible aggregate penalties that might arise as a result of the matters in respect of which it is practicable to form estimates is up to or exceeding $800m, including amounts for which a provision has been recognised.
Due to uncertainties and limitations of these estimates, the ultimate penalties could differ significantly from this amount.
In light of the media attention regarding these matters, it is possible that other tax administration, regulatory or law enforcement authorities will also initiate or enlarge similar investigations or regulatory proceedings.
London interbank offered rates, European interbank offered rates and other benchmark interest rate investigations and litigation In December 2016, the European Commission the EC issued a decision finding that HSBC, among other banks, engaged in anticompetitive practices in connection with the pricing of euro interest rate derivatives in early 2007.
The EC imposed a fine on HSBC based on a one-month infringement.
HSBC has appealed the decision.
US dollar Libor: Beginning in 2011, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in a number of private lawsuits filed in the US with respect to the setting of US dollar Libor.
The complaints assert claims under various US laws, including US antitrust and HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 291 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements racketeering laws, the US Commodity Exchange Act US CEA and state law.
The lawsuits include individual and putative class actions, most of which have been transferred and or consolidated for pre-trial purposes before the New York DistrictCourt.
In 2017 and 2018, HSBC reached agreements with plaintiffs to resolve putative class actions brought on behalf of the following five groups of plaintiffs: persons who purchased US dollar Libor-indexed bonds: persons who purchased US Libor-indexed exchange-traded instruments: US-based lending institutions that made or purchased US dollar Libor-indexed loans the Lender class : persons who purchased US dollar Libor-indexed interest rate swaps and other instruments directly from the defendant banks and their affiliates the OTC class : and persons who purchased US dollar Libor-indexed interest rate swaps and other instruments from certain financial institutions that are not the defendant banks or their affiliates.
During 2018, the New York District Court granted final approval of the settlements with the OTC and Lender classes.
The remaining settlements are subject to final court approval.
Additionally, a number of other US dollar Libor-related actions remain pending against HSBC in the New York District Court and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.
Intercontinental Exchange ICE Libor: In January 2019, HSBC and other panel banks were named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who purchased over-the-counter instruments paying interest indexed to ICE Libor from a panel bank.
The complaint alleges, among other things, misconduct related to the suppression of this benchmark rate in violation of US antitrust and state law.
This matter is at a very early stage.
Singapore interbank offered rate Sibor, Singapore swap offer rate SOR and Australia bank bill swap rate BBSW : In July 2016 and August 2016, HSBC and other panel banks were named as defendants in two putative class actions filed in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in products related to the Sibor, SOR and BBSW benchmark rates.
The complaints allege, among other things, misconduct related to these benchmark rates in violation of US antitrust, commodities and racketeering laws, and state law.
Following a decision in October 2018 on the defendants motion to dismiss in the Sibor SOR litigation, the claims against a number of HSBC entities were dismissed, and the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited remains the only HSBC defendant in this action.
In October 2018, the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited filed a motion for reconsideration of the decision based on the issue of personal jurisdiction.
The plaintiff filed a third amended complaint in October 2018 naming only the Sibor panel members.
In November 2018, the defendants moved to dismiss the third amended complaint, and this motion remains pending.
In November 2018, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss the BBSW case and dismissed all foreign defendants, including all the HSBC entities, on personal jurisdiction grounds.
The plaintiff sought leave to file a second amended complaint in January 2019.
There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of these matters, which could be significant.
Foreign exchange-related investigations and litigation Various regulators and competition authorities around the world, including in the EU, Switzerland, Brazil and South Africa, are conducting investigations and reviews into trading by HSBC and others on the foreign exchange markets.
HSBC is cooperating with these investigations and reviews.
In January 2018, HSBC Holdings entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement with the Criminal Division of the DoJ the FX DPA, regarding fraudulent conduct in connection with two particular transactions in 2010 and 2011.
This concluded the DoJs investigation into HSBCs historical foreign exchange activities.
Under the terms of the FX DPA, HSBC has a number of ongoing obligations, including implementing enhancements to its internal controls and procedures in its Global Markets business, which will be the subject of annual reports to the DoJ.
In addition, HSBC agreed to pay a financial penalty and restitution.
In December 2016, Brazils Administrative Council of Economic Defense CADE publicly announced that it is initiating an investigation into the onshore foreign exchange market and has identified a number of banks, including HSBC, as subjects of its investigation.
In February 2017, the Competition Commission of South Africa referred a complaint for proceedings before the South African Competition Tribunal against 18 financial institutions, including HSBC Bank plc, for alleged misconduct related to the foreign exchange market in violation of South African antitrust laws.
In April 2017, HSBC Bank plc filed an exception to the complaint based on a lack of jurisdiction andstatute of limitations.
In January 2018, the South African Competition Tribunal approved the provisional referral of additional financial institutions, including HSBC Bank USA, to the proceedings.
HSBC Bank USA has objected to the provisional referral.
These proceedings are at an early stage.
In October 2018, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank plc received an information request from the EC concerning potential coordination in foreign exchange options trading.
This matter is at an early stage.
In late 2013 and early 2014, various HSBC companies and other banks were named as defendants in various putative class actions consolidated intheNew York District Court.
The consolidated complaint alleged, among other things, that the defendants conspired to manipulatethe WM Reuters foreign exchange benchmark rates.
In September 2015, HSBC reached an agreement with plaintiffs toresolve theconsolidated action, and the court granted final approval of the settlement in August 2018.
A putative class action complaint making similar allegations on behalf of retail customers of foreign exchange products was filed in the US District Court for the Northern District of California in 2015, and was subsequently transferred to the New York District Court where it remains pending.
In 2017, putative class action complaints making similar allegations on behalf of purported indirect purchasers of foreign exchange products were filed in New York and were subsequently consolidated in the New York District Court, where they remain pending.
In September 2018, various HSBC companies and other banks were named as defendants in a class action complaint filed in Israel that alleges foreign exchange-related misconduct and, in November and December 2018, complaints alleging foreign exchange-related misconduct were filed in the New York District Court and the High Court of England and Wales against HSBC and other defendants, by certain plaintiffs that opted out of the US class action settlement.
These matters are at an early stage.
It is possible that additional actions will be initiated against HSBC in relation to its historical foreign exchange activities.
292 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Precious metals fix-related investigations and litigation In November 2014, the Antitrust Division and Criminal Fraud Section of the DoJ issued a document request to HSBC Holdings, seeking the voluntary production of certain documents in connection with a criminal investigation that the DoJ is conducting of alleged anticompetitive and manipulative conduct in precious metals trading.
In January 2019, the DoJ closed its investigation without taking any action against HSBC.
Gold: Beginning in March 2014, numerous putative class actions were filed in the New York District Court and the US District Courts for the District of New Jersey and the Northern District of California, naming HSBC and other members of The London Gold Market Fixing Limited as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2004 to June 2013, the defendants conspired to manipulate the price of gold and gold derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and New York state law.
The actions were consolidated in the New York District Court.
The defendants motion to dismiss the consolidated action was granted in part and denied in part in October 2016.
In June 2017, the court granted the plaintiffs leave to file a third amended complaint, naming a new defendant.
The court has denied the pre-existing defendants request for leave to file a joint motion to dismiss, and discovery is proceeding.
Beginning in December 2015, numerous putative class actions under Canadian law were filed in the Ontario and Quebec Superior Courts of Justice against various HSBC companies and other financial institutions.
The plaintiffs allege that, among other things, from January 2004 to March 2014, the defendants conspired to manipulate the price of gold and gold derivatives in violation of the Canadian Competition Act and common law.
These actions are at an early stage.
Silver: Beginning in July 2014, numerous putative class actions were filed in the US District Courts for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York, naming HSBC and other members of The London Silver Market Fixing Ltd as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2007 to December 2013, the defendants conspired to manipulate the price of silver and silver derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and New York state law.
In June 2017, the court granted the plaintiffs leave to file a third amended complaint, which names several new defendants.
In April 2016, two putative class actions under Canadian law were filed in the Ontario and Quebec Superior Courts of Justice against various HSBC companies and other financial institutions.
The plaintiffs in both actions allege that, from January 1999 to August 2014, the defendants conspired to manipulate the price of silver and silver derivatives in violation of the Canadian Competition Act and common law.
The Ontario action is at an early stage.
The Quebec action has been temporarily stayed.
Platinum and palladium: Between late 2014 and early 2015, numerous putative class actions were filed in the New York District Court, naming HSBC and other members of The London Platinum and Palladium Fixing Company Limited as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2008 to November 2014, the defendants conspired to manipulate the price ofplatinum group metals PGM and PGM-based financial products for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws and the US CEA.
In March 2017, the defendants motion to dismiss the second amended consolidated complaint was granted in part and denied in part.
In June 2017, the plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint.
The defendants filed a joint motion to dismiss, which remains pending.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could besignificant.
Film finance litigation In July and November 2015, respectively, two actions were brought by individuals against HSBC Private Bank UK Limited PBGB in the High Court of England and Wales seeking damages on various alleged grounds, including breach of duty to the claimants, in connection with their participation in certain Ingenious film finance schemes.
In December 2018, a further action was brought against PBGB in the High Court of England and Wales by multiple claimants seeking damages for alleged unlawful means conspiracy and dishonest assistance in connection with lending provided by PBGB to third parties in respect of certain Ingenious film finance schemes in which the claimants participated.
In February 2019, PBGB received a letter before claim by investors in Eclipse film finance schemes asserting various claims against PBGB and others in connection with their roles in facilitating the design, promotion and operation of such schemes.
These matters are at very early stages.
It is possible that additional actions or investigations will be initiated against PBGB as a result of its historical involvement in the provision of certain film finance-related services.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or possible aggregate impact, which could be significant.
Other regulatory investigations, reviews and litigation HSBC Holdings and or certain of its affiliates are subject to a number of other investigations and reviews by various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities, as well as litigation, in connection with various matters relating to the firms businesses and operations, including: requests for information from various tax administration or regulatory authorities relating to Mossack Fonseca & Co. or Fdration Internationale fide Football Association FIFA : an investigation by the DoJ regarding US Treasury securities trading practices: an investigation by the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission regarding trading screens used to price certain derivative products: an investigation by the Swiss Competition Commission in connection with the setting of Euribor and Japanese yen Libor: an information request from the UK Competition and Markets Authority concerning the financial services sector: an investigation by the US Securities and Exchange Commission of multiple institutions, including HSBC, in relation to hiring practices of candidates referred by or related to government officials or employees of state-owned enterprises in Asia-Pacific: putative individual and class actions brought in the New York District Court relating to the Canadian dealer offered rate, the credit default swap market and the Mexican government bond market, and putative class actions brought in the New York District Court and HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 293 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements in the Superior and Federal Courts in Canada relating to the market for US dollar-denominated supranational sovereign and agency bonds: and putative class actions brought in the US District Court for the Northern District of Texas and a claim issued in the High Court of England and Wales in connection with HSBC Bank plcs role as a correspondent bank to Stanford International Bank Ltd from 2003 to 2009.
36 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel KMP as defined by IAS 24, close family members of KMP and entities that are controlled or jointly controlled by KMP or their close family members.
KMP are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings.
These individuals also constitute senior management for the purposes of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Following a review of the application of IAS 24, it was determined that the roles of Chief Legal Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Chief Human Resources Officer, Group Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Communications Officer and Group Chief of Staff did not meet the criteria for KMP as provided for in the standard.
Particulars of transactions with related parties are tabulated below.
The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and outstanding balances during the year.
Key Management Personnel Details of Directors remuneration and interest in shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 172 to 206.
IAS24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
Compensation of Key Management Personnel 2018 2017 2016 $m $m $m Short-term employee benefits 52 43 41 Other long-term employee benefits 6 5 5 Share-based payments 34 35 37 Year ended 31 Dec 92 83 83 Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel 2018 2017 000s 000s Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans 24 15 Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially 17,940 22,609 At 31 Dec 17.964 22,624 Transactions and balances during the year with Key Management Personnel 2018 2017 Highest amounts Highest amounts Balance at outstanding Balance outstanding 31Dec during year at 31 Dec during year Footnotes $m $m $m $m 1 Key Management Personnel 2 Advances and credits 169 288 329 334 Guarantees 0.6 0.6 6 52 Deposits 352 924 300 893 1 Includes Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities that are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members.
2 Advances and credits entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings during 2018 with Directors, disclosed pursuant to Section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, totalled $1m 2017: $2m.
Some of the transactions were connected transactions as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those rules.
The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
Associates and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures including loans, overdrafts, interest and noninterest bearing deposits and current accounts.
Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 18.
294 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures 2018 2017 Highest balance Balance at Highest balance Balance at during the year 31 Dec during the year 31 Dec $m $m $m $m Unsubordinated amounts due from joint ventures 130 115 138 119 Unsubordinated amounts due from associates 3,887 3,000 3,104 2,537 Subordinated amounts due from associates 411 411 Amounts due to associates 2,020 273 2,617 1,232 Amounts due to joint ventures 22 22 Guarantees and commitments 790 523 654 665 The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Post-employment benefit plans At 31 December 2018, $4.4bn 2017: $5.3bn of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies, earning management fees of $8m in 2018 2017: $8m.
At 31 December 2018, HSBCs post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits of $297m 2017:$875m with its banking subsidiaries, earning interest payable to the schemes of nil 2017: nil.
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
The HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme enters into swap transactions with HSBC to manage inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities and selected assets.
At 31 December 2018, the gross notional value of the swaps was $10.5bn 2017: $11.3bn : these swaps had a positive fair value to the scheme of $1.0bn 2017: $1.0bn : and HSBC had delivered collateral of $1.0bn 2017: $1.0bn to the scheme in respect of these arrangements.
All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid offer spreads.
HSBC Holdings Details of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries are shown in Note 39.
Transactions and balances during the year with subsidiaries 2018 2017 Highest balance Balance at Highest balance Balance at during the year 31 Dec during the year 31 Dec $m $m $m $m Assets Cash and balances with HSBC undertakings 16,473 3,509 1,985 1,985 11,944 11,944 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings designated at fair value 23,513 23,513 Derivatives 1,235 707 2,796 2,388 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 77,311 56,144 89,810 76,627 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 4,264 4,264 Investments in subsidiaries 160,231 160,231 95,850 92,930 Total related party assets at 31 Dec 278,763 244,104 206,649 190,138 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,040 949 2,906 2,571 Derivatives 3,639 2,159 4,904 3,082 Subordinated liabilities 892 892 892 892 Total related party liabilities at 31 Dec 6,571 4,000 8,702 6,545 Guarantees and commitments 11,629 8,627 9,692 7,778 The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company.
HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf.
Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 6.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 295 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements 37 Effects of reclassification upon adoption of IFRS 9 Reconciliation of consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2017 and 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 reclassification to IFRS 9 Fair remeasure value IAS 39 Other Fair Carrying ment through carrying changes value amount including IFRS 9 other amount at in through post expected carrying compre- 31 Dec classifiprofit  amount at hensive 4 2017 cation and loss sed cost cation losses 1 Jan 2018 income IAS 39 IFRS 9 measurement measurement Footnotes category category $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Assets Cash and balances Amortised Amortised 180,624 180,624 3 180,621 at central banks cost cost Items in the course Amortised Amortised of collection from cost cost 6,628 6,628 6,628 other banks Hong Kong Government certificates of Amortised Amortised indebtedness cost cost 34,186 34,186 34,186 1, 3 Trading assets FVPL FVPL 287,995 4,329 9 37,924 254,409 1 254,410 Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit FVPL FVPL 29,464 313 10,055 3 115 39,714 32 39,746 2,5, 6,7 or loss Derivatives FVPL FVPL 219,818 219,818 219,818 Loans and advances Amortised Amortised 90,393 7,099 712 82,582 23 82,559 to banks 1, 2, 3 cost cost Loans and advances Amortised Amortised 962,964 7,458 3,903 24 951,627 1,890 949,737 to customers 1, 2, 3 cost cost Reverse repurchase Amortised Amortised agreements noncost cost 201,553 201,553 201,553 trading FVOCI Available-forsale debt instruments FVOCI 332,240 3,131 83 7,026 322,166 3 322,163 5, 13 Financial FVOCI investments Available-forsale equity instruments FVOCI 3,917 2,104 1,813 1,813 6, 13 Amortised Amortised 52,919 80 7,141 59,980 457 59,523 5 cost cost Prepayments, Amortised Amortised accrued income and cost cost 67,191 9,915 214 37,900 114,792 15 114,777 1, 7 other assets Current tax assets N A N A 1,006 1,006 1,006 Interests in associates and joint N A N A 22,744 22,744 942 21,802 8 ventures Goodwill and N A N A 23,453 23,453 79 23,374 intangible assets 9 Deferred tax assets N A N A 4,676 4,676 38 4,714 Total assets 2,521,771 2,521,771 3,341 2,518,430 For footnotes, see page 299.
296 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Reconciliation for consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2017 and 1 January 2018 continued IFRS 9 reclassification to Fair value IFRS 9 IAS 39 through Fair value remeasurement IFRS 9 carrying Other profit through other Carrying including carrying amount at changes in and comprehensive Amortised amount postexpected credit amount at 4 31 Dec 2017 classification loss income cost reclassification losses 1 Jan 2018 Measurement 13 category Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Liabilities Hong Kong Amortised currency notes in cost 34,186 34,186 34,186 circulation Amortised Deposits by banks 69,922 5,430 64,492 64,492 1 cost Amortised Customer accounts 1,364,462 4,235 1,360,227 1,360,227 1 cost Repurchase Amortised agreements noncost 130,002 130,002 130,002 trading Items in the course of transmission to Amortised other banks cost 6,850 6,850 6,850 1, 11 Trading liabilities FVPL 184,361 103,497 80,864 80,864 Financial liabilities designated at fair FVPL 94,429 59,267 9,699 143,997 9 144,006 9, 10, 11 value Derivatives FVPL 216,821 216,821 216,821 Debt securities in Amortised 64,546 2,095 66,641 105 66,536 issue 10 cost Accruals, deferred Amortised income and other cost 45,907 53,895 124 99,926 99,926 1, 10 liabilities Current tax N A 928 928 928 liabilities Liabilities under insurance N A 85,667 85,667 69 85,598 9 contracts Provisions N A 4,011 4,011 284 4,295 Deferred tax N A 1,982 1,982 368 1,614 liabilities 14 Subordinated Amortised 19,826 7,480 27,306 1,445 25,861 liabilities 10 cost Total liabilities 2,323,900 2,323,900 1,694 2,322,206 For footnotes, see page 299.
IFRS 9 IAS 39 carrying remeasurement Carrying amount amount at 31 Dec IFRS 9 including expected Carrying amount post 2017 reclassification reclassification credit losses at 1 January 2018 Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m Equity Called up share capital 10,160 10,160 10,160 Share premium account 10,177 10,177 10,177 Other equity instruments 22,250 22,250 22,250 12 Other reserves 7,664 960 6,704 61 6,643 14 Retained earnings 139,999 960 140,959 1,545 139,414 Total shareholders equity 190,250 190,250 1,606 188,644 Non-controlling interests 7,621 7,621 41 7,580 Total equity 197,871 197,871 1,647 196,224 For footnotes, see page 299.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 297 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Reconciliation of impairment allowance under IAS 39 and provision under IAS 37 to expected credit losses under IFRS 9 Reclassification to Remeasurement Fair value Fair value through through other profit and comprehensive Stage 1 & loss income Amortised cost Stage 3 Stage 2 Total IAS 39 measurement $m $m $m $m $m $m category Financial assets at amortised cost IAS 39 impairment allowance at 31 Dec 2017 7,532 Amortised cost Loans Cash and balances at central banks 3 3 and receivables Amortised cost Loans Items in the course of collection from other banks and receivables Hong Kong Government certificates of Amortised cost Loans indebtedness and receivables Amortised cost Loans Loans and advances to banks 1 22 23 and receivables Amortised cost Loans Loans and advances to customers 31 629 1,261 1,859 and receivables Amortised cost Loans Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading and receivables Amortised cost Held to Financial investments 3 13 16 maturity Amortised cost Loans Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 47 47 and receivables Expected credit loss allowance at 1 Jan 2018 9,480 Loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts IAS 37 provisions at 31 Dec 2017 253 Provisions loan commitments and financial N A N A N A N A 74 210 284 guarantees Expected credit loss provision at 1 Jan 2018 537 The pre-tax net asset impact of additional impairment allowances on adoption of IFRS 9 is $2,232m: $1,948m in respect of financial assets at amortised cost and $284m related to loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts.
Total expected credit loss allowance at 1 January 2018 is $9,480m in respect of financial assets at amortised cost, and $537m related to loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts.
Effects of reclassification upon adoption of IFRS 9 Assuming no reclassification Fair value gains losses Fair value recognised in gains losses other Interest Carrying amount Fair value at recognised in comprehensive revenue at 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 profit or loss income expense Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m Reclassified from available-for-sale to amortised cost Other financial assets held at amortised cost 5,781 5,876 N A 438 N A Reclassified from fair value through profit and loss to amortised cost or fair value though other comprehensive income 15 Debt securities in issue 1,939 1,823 60 237 80 16 Subordinated liabilities 5,872 6,635 246 644 323 For footnotes, see page 299.
298 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Footnotes to Effect of reclassification upon 9 Changes in the classification and measurement of financial assets held in our insurance business and the recognition of ECL under IFRS 9 has adoption of IFRS 9 resulted in secondary impacts on the present value of in-force long-term insurance business 'PVIF' and liabilities to holders of insurance and 1 Settlement accounts, cash collateral and margin receivables of $37,900m investment contracts.
The gross carrying value of PVIF reported in have been reclassified from Trading assets to Prepayments, accrued Goodwill and intangible assets and liabilities reported in Liabilities under income and other assets as a result of the assessment of the business insurance contracts has decreased by $79m and $69m respectively.
model in accordance with IFRS 9.
Liabilities reported under Financial liabilities designated at fair value Settlement accounts, cash collateral and margin receivables previously have increased by $9m.
presented as Loans and advances to banks' of $5,939m and 'Loans and 10 As permitted by IFRS 9, fair value designations have been revoked for advances to customers of $3,976m have been re-presented in certain long-dated liabilities where the accounting mismatch will be Prepayments, accrued income and other assets to ensure consistent better mitigated by undertaking fair value hedge accounting, resulting in presentation of all such balances.
Settlement accounts, cash collateral reclassifications of $7,110m from 'Financial liabilities designated at fair and margin payables previously presented as Trading liabilities of value to 'Subordinated liabilities' measured at amortised cost and $44,230m, Deposits by banks of $5,430m and Customer accounts of $2,095m from Financial liabilities designated at fair value to Debt $4,235m have been re-presented in 'Accruals, deferred income and other securities in issue measured at amortised cost.
This change in presentation for financial liabilities is considered associated accrued interest has been reclassified to Accruals, deferred to provide more relevant information, given the change in presentation income and other liabilities.
In addition, as required by IFRS 9, fair value for the financial assets.
These changes in presentation for financial assets designations have been revoked where accounting mismatches no longer and liabilities have had no effect on measurement of these items and exist, resulting in a further $370m of Subordinated liabilities' being therefore on Retained earnings.
Together, these changes result in the 2 'Loans and advances to customers' of $3,903m and 'Loans and advances financial liabilities now being measured at amortised cost, decreasing to banks' of $712m did not meet the 'solely payments of principal and 'Debt securities in issue' by $105m and 'Subordinated Liabilities' by interest' SPPI requirement for amortised cost classification under IFRS $1,445m.
As a result, these financial assets were reclassified to Financial assets 11 We have considered market practices for the presentation of $59,267m designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through of financial liabilities containing both deposit and derivative components.
We have concluded that a change in accounting policy and presentation from Trading liabilities would be appropriate, since it would better align 3 Stock borrowing assets of $4,642m have been reclassified from Loans with the presentation of similar financial instruments by peers and and advances to banks and customers to Trading assets.
The change in therefore provide more relevant information about the effect of these measurement is a result of the determination of the global business financial liabilities on our financial position and performance.
As a result, model for this activity and will align the presentation throughout the rather than being classified as held for trading, we will designate these Group.
financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or loss since they are 4 IFRS 9 ECL decreased net assets by $2,232m, principally comprising of managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis.
$1,890m reduction in the carrying value of assets classified as 'Loans and Consequently, changes in fair value of these instruments attributable to advances to customers' and $284m increase in 'Provisions' relating to changes in own credit risk are recognised in other comprehensive expected credit losses on loan commitments and financial guarantee income rather than profit or loss.
For 2017, a restatement would have contracts.
increased Net income from financial instruments held for trading or 5 Debt instruments of $3,131m previously classified as available-for-sale managed on a fair value basis by $545m and increased tax expense by under IAS 39 did not meet the SPPI requirement for FVOCI classification.
$168m, with an equivalent net decrease in other comprehensive income.
As a result, these financial assets were classified as Financial assets 12 While IFRS 9 ECL has no effect on the carrying value of FVOCI financial designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through assets, which remain measured at fair value, the adoption of IFRS 9 profit or loss upon adoption of IFRS 9.
Debt instruments of $7,026m results in a transfer from the FVOCI reserve formerly AFS reserve to previously classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39, have been retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impairment recognised in reclassified to amortised cost as a result of hold to collect business profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9 net of impairment losses model classification under IFRS 9.
This resulted in a $441m downward previously recognised in profit or loss under IAS 39.
The amount remeasurement of the financial assets now measured at amortised cost transferred from 'Other reserves' to 'Retained earnings' was $61m.
The excluding expected credit losses.
resulting cumulative expected credit losses recognised in Retained 6 $2,104m of available-for-sale non-traded equity instruments have been earnings on financial assets measured at FVOCI on adoption of IFRS 9 is reclassified as Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily $184m.
In addition, the cumulative AFS reserve relating to financial measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9. investments reclassified to 'Financial assets designated and otherwise The Group has elected to apply the FVOCI option under IFRS 9 for the mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance remaining $1,813m.
with IFRS 9 has been transferred to retained earnings.
7 $214m of other financial assets measured at amortised cost under IAS 39 13 Measurement refers to that under IAS 39 and IFRS 9.
Financial did not meet the SPPI requirement for amortised cost classification under investments measured under fair value through other comprehensive IFRS 9.
As a result, these financial assets were classified as Financial income were measured as available-for-sale instruments under IAS 39. assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss.
14 The effect of IFRS 9 remeasurement has been updated from the estimate disclosed in our Annual Report and Accounts 2017 as a result of our 8 'Interests in associates and joint ventures' includes the consequential associates publicly reporting their transition impacts.
downward remeasurement of our interests in associates and joint 15 The effective interest rate on the issued debt security reclassified at 1 ventures as a result of these entities applying IFRS 9 of $942m.
of IFRS 9 on the carrying value of investments in associates has been updated from the estimate disclosed in our Annual Report and Accounts 16 Effective interest rate on subordinated liabilities reclassified at 1 January 2017 as a result of those entities publicly reporting their expected 2018 were 3.16%, 5.34%, 6.57% and 7.69%.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 299 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Reconciliation of HSBC Holdings balance sheet at 31 December 2017 and 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 reclassification to IFRS 9 Fair remeasurvalue IAS 39 Other Fair Carrying ment through carrying changes value amount including IFRS 9 other amount at in through Amortipostexpected carrying compre- 31 Dec classifiprofit sed reclassificredit amount at hensive 2017 cation and loss cost cation losses 1 Jan 2018 income IAS 39 IFRS 9 measurement measurement Footnotes category category $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Assets Cash and balances with HSBC Amortised undertakings cost Amortised cost 1,985 1,985 1,985 Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit FVPL FVPL 11,944 4,264 16,208 16,208 or loss 1 Derivatives FVPL FVPL 2,388 2,388 2,388 Loans and advances Amortised to HSBC cost Amortised cost 76,627 76,627 76,627 undertakings FVOCI Available for sale debt instruments FVPL 4,264 4,264 1 FVOCI Available for Financial investments sale equity instruments FVOCI Amortised cost Debt instruments held to Amortised cost maturity Prepayments, Amortised accrued income and cost Amortised cost 662 662 662 intangible assets Current tax assets N A N A 379 379 379 Investment in N A N A 92,930 92,930 92,930 subsidiaries Deferred tax assets N A N A 555 555 175 380 Total assets 191,734 191,734 175 191,559 IFRS 9 reclassification to Fair IFRS 9 value IAS 39 Fair value remeasurement IFRS 9 through IAS 39 carrying Other through other Carrying including carrying profit measurement amount at changes in comprehensive amount postexpected credit amount at and Amortised category 31 Dec 2017 classification income cost reclassification losses 1 Jan 2018 loss Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Liabilities Amount owed to Amortised HSBC undertakings cost 2,571 2,571 2,571 Financial liabilities designated at fair value FVPL 30,890 5,402 25,488 25,488 2 Amortised Derivatives 3,082 3,082 3,082 cost Amortised Debt securities in issue 34,258 34,258 34,258 cost Accruals, deferred income and other Amortised liabilities cost 1,269 75 1,344 1,344 2 Amortised Subordinated liabilities 15,877 5,327 21,204 1,065 20,139 2 cost Total liabilities 87,947 87,947 1,065 86,882 300 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Reconciliation for HSBC Holdings balance sheet at 31 December 2017 and 1 January 2018 continued IFRS 9 IAS 39 carrying Carrying amount remeasurement amount at 31 Dec IFRS 9 postincluding expected Carrying amount 2017 reclassification reclassification credit losses at 1 January 2018 Footnotes $m $m $m $m $m Equity Called up share capital 10,160 10,160 10,160 Share premium account 10,177 10,177 10,177 Other equity instruments 22,107 22,107 22,107 Other reserves 37,440 59 37,381 37,381 Retained earnings 23,903 59 23,962 890 24,852 Total equity 103,787 103,787 890 104,677 1 $4,264 of available-for-sale assets have been reclassified as Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9.
2 As permitted by IFRS 9, fair value designations have been revoked for certain long-dated liabilities where the accounting mismatch will be better mitigated by undertaking fair value hedge accounting, resulting in reclassifications of $5,402m from 'Financial liabilities designated at fair value to Subordinated liabilities measured at amortised cost.
38 Events after the balance sheet date In its assessment of events after the balance sheet date, HSBC considered, among others, the events related to the process of the UKs withdrawal from the European Union that occurred between 31 December 2018 and the date when the financial statements were authorised for issue, and concluded that no adjustments to the financial statements were required.
A fourth interim dividend for 2018 of $0.21 per ordinary share a distribution of approximately $4,205m was declared by the Directors after 31 December 2018.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2019 and authorised for issue.
39 HSBC Holdings subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a list of HSBC Holdings plc subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, the registered office address and the effective percentage of equity owned at 31 December 2018 are disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, the share capital comprises ordinary or common shares that are held by Group subsidiaries.
The ownership percentage is provided for each undertaking.
The undertakings below are consolidated by HSBC unless otherwise indicated.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 301 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Subsidiaries % of share class % of share class held by immediate held by immediate parent company or parent company or by the Group where by the Group where Subsidiaries Subsidiaries this varies Footnotes this varies Footnotes 16 22 ACN 087 652 113 Pty Limited in liquidation 100.00 Eton Corporate Services Limited 100.00 18 44 Almacenadora Banpacifico S. A. in liquidation 99.99 Far East Leasing SA in liquidation 100.00 19 100.00 4, 41 Assetfinance December F Limited 100.00 Fdm 5 SAS 99.99 19 100.00 3, 45 Assetfinance December H Limited 100.00 FEPC Leasing Ltd. in liquidation 19 100.00 99.99 4, 43 Assetfinance December M Limited 100.00 Finanpar 2 19 100.00 99.99 4, 43 Assetfinance December P Limited 100.00 Finanpar 7 19 100.00 99.99 1, 4, 46 Assetfinance December R Limited 100.00 Flandres Contentieux S. A.
19 100.00 99.99 4, 42 Assetfinance June A Limited 100.00 Foncire Elyses 19 Assetfinance June D Limited 100.00 Forward Trust Rail Services Limited in 19 100.00 liquidation 19 Assetfinance Limited 100.00 20 Fujian Yongan HSBC Rural Bank Company Assetfinance March B Limited 100.00 12, 47 100.00 Limited 19 Assetfinance March D Limited 100.00 48 Fulcher Enterprises Company Limited 100.00 62.14 19 Assetfinance March F Limited 100.00 1, 11, 18 Fundacion HSBC, A. C. 99.99 19 Assetfinance September F Limited 100.00 100.00 27 Giller Ltd. 19 Assetfinance September G Limited 100.00 Global Payments Technology Mexico 21 B&Q Financial Services Limited 100.00 18 100.00 99.99 S. A. fide C. V. 22 Banco Nominees Guernsey Limited 100.00 7, 29 GPIF Co-Investment, LLC n a 22 Banco Nominees 2 Guernsey Limited 100.00 19 Griffin International Limited 100.00 23 Banco Nominees Limited 100.00  Trinkausstrasse 24 Bank of Bermuda Cayman Limited 100.00 7, 50 n a  7, 25 Beau Soleil Limited Partnership n a 18 Grupo Financiero HSBC, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 Beijing Miyun HSBC Rural Bank Company 12, 26 Guangdong Enping HSBC Rural Bank Limited 100.00 12, 51 100.00 Company Limited 19 Billingsgate Nominees Limited 100.00 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Nominee Limited 19 Canada Crescent Nominees UK Limited 100.00 100.00 62.14 12, 54 Hang Seng Bank China Limited 19 Canada Square Nominees UK Limited 100.00 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Bank Trustee Limited Canada Water Nominees UK Limited in 19 62.14 48 Hang Seng Bank Limited liquidation 100.00 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Bullion Company Limited 27 Capco Cove, Inc. 100.00 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Credit Limited 28 Card-Flo #1, Inc. 100.00 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Data Services Limited 29 Card-Flo #3, Inc. 100.00 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Finance Limited 7, 30 CC&H Holdings LLC n a 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Financial Information Limited 19 CCF & Partners Asset Management Limited 99.99 100.00 48 Hang Seng Futures Limited in liquidation 62.14 CCF Charterhouse GmbH & Co Asset Leasing 7, 31 100.00 62.14 48 KG in liquidation n a Hang Seng Indexes Company Limited 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Insurance Company Limited 4, 31 CCF Charterhouse GmbH in liquidation 100.00 99.99 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Investment Management Limited 1, 32 CCF Holding LIBAN S. A. L. in liquidation 74.99 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Investment Services Limited 19 Charterhouse Administrators D. T. Limited 100.00 99.99 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Life Limited Charterhouse Development Limited in 36 liquidation 100.00 100.00 62.14 48 Hang Seng Real Estate Management Limited 100.00 62.14 48 19 Hang Seng Securities Limited Charterhouse Management Services Limited 100.00 99.99 100.00 62.14 48 19 Hang Seng Security Management Limited Charterhouse Pensions Limited 100.00 Hang Seng Qianhai Fund Management Chongqing Dazu HSBC Rural Bank Company 12, 189 12, 33 70.00 43.49 Limited 100.00 Company Limited 100.00 48 Haseba Investment Company Limited 62.14 Chongqing Fengdu HSBC Rural Bank 12, 34 Company Limited 100.00 100.00 36 HFC Bank Limited in liquidation n a 7, 210 Hg Janus A Co-Invest L. P. Chongqing Rongchang HSBC Rural Bank 12, 35 Company Limited 100.00 100.00 48 High Time Investments Limited 62.14 36 CL Residential Limited in liquidation 100.00 100.00 55 HITG Administration GmbH 7, 19 COIF Nominees Limited n a 100.00 56 Honey Green Enterprises Ltd. 37 Cordico Management AG 100.00 Hongkong International Trade Finance 19 100.00 38 Holdings Limited in liquidation Corhold Limited 100.00 7, 49 7, 29 Corsair IV Financial Services Capital Partners n a Household Capital Markets LLC n a 100.00 29 Household Finance Corporation III Dalian Pulandian HSBC Rural Bank Company 12, 39 Limited 100.00 Household International Europe Limited in 3, 36 100.00 7, 40 liquidation Decision One Mortgage Company, LLC n a 4, 41 100.00 58 Dem 5 100.00 99.99 Household Pooling Corporation 4, 41 100.00 22 Dem 9 100.00 99.99 HRMG Nominees Limited 4, 42 100.00 19 Dempar 1 100.00 99.99 HSBC BGF Investments Limited 4, 42 100.00 2, 60 Dempar 4 100.00 99.99 HSBC General Partner Limited 18 100.00 22 Desarrollo Turistico, S. A. fide C. V. in liquidation 99.99 HSBC Guernsey GP PCC Limited 11, 31 100.00 61 Elysees GmbH in liquidation 100.00 99.99 HSBC Kuala Lumpur Nominees Sdn Bhd 4, 43 100.00 62 Elyses Immo Invest 100.00 99.99 HSBC Malaysia Trustee Berhad 19 100.00 63 Equator Holdings Limited in liquidation 100.00 HSBC Singapore Nominees Pte Ltd 302 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 % of share class % of share class held by immediate held by immediate parent company or parent company or by the Group where by the Group where Subsidiaries this varies Footnotes Subsidiaries this varies Footnotes 64 HSBC Administradora fide Inversiones S. A.
100.00 99.65 HSBC Casa fide Bolsa, S. A. fide C. V. Grupo 18 Financiero HSBC 99.99 65 HSBC Agency India Private Limited 100.00 92 HSBC Cayman Services Limited 100.00 HSBC Alpha Funding UK Holdings LP in 7, 66 n a liquidation 19 HSBC City Funding Holdings 100.00 19 19 HSBC Alternative Investments Limited 100.00 HSBC Client Holdings Nominee UK Limited 100.00 61 19 HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad 100.00 HSBC Client Share Offer Nominee UK Limited 100.00 9, 61 7, 29 HSBC Amanah Takaful Malaysia Berhad 49.00 HSBC Columbia Funding, LLC n a 29 61 HSBC Americas Corporation Delaware 100.00 HSBC Corporate Advisory Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100.00 67 68 HSBC Argentina Holdings S. A.
100.00 HSBC Corporate Finance Hong Kong Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Asia Holdings UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Corporate Trustee Company UK 19 Limited 100.00 3, 19 HSBC Asia Holdings B. V. 100.00 16 2, 68 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 100.00 HSBC Asia Holdings Limited 100.00 22 5, 19 HSBC Custody Services Guernsey Limited 100.00 HSBC Asia Pacific Holdings UK Limited 100.00 94 19 HSBC Daisy Investments Mauritius Limited 100.00 HSBC Asset Finance UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Diversified Loan Fund General Partner HSBC Asset Finance Holdings Limited in 7, 95 19 n a Sarl liquidation 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Guangdong HSBC Asset Finance M. O. G. Holdings UK 12, 96 19 Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Malaysia HSBC Asset Management India Private 97 3, 69 99.99 Sdn Bhd 100.00 Limited 100.00 4, 46 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Philippines, HSBC Assurances Vie France 100.00 99.99 98 Inc. 99.99 3, 5, 16 HSBC Australia Holdings Pty Limited 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Processing India Private 70 HSBC Bank Chile 100.00 99 Limited 100.00 12, 71 HSBC Bank China Company Limited 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Lanka 60 HSBC Bank General Partner Limited 100.00 100 Private Limited 100.00 72 HSBC Bank Mauritius Limited 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Service Delivery Egypt 13, 73 101 HSBC Bank RR Limited Liability Company 100.00 S. A. E. 100.00 63 HSBC Bank Singapore Limited 100.00 HSBC Enterprise Investment Company UK 19 74 HSBC Bank Taiwan Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 75 HSBC Bank Uruguay S. A.
100.00 4, 46 HSBC Epargne Entreprise France 100.00 99.99 76 HSBC Bank Vietnam Ltd. 100.00 19 HSBC Equator UK Limited in liquidation 100.00 77 HSBC Bank A. S. 100.00 19 HSBC Equipment Finance UK Limited 100.00 67 HSBC Bank Argentina S. A.
100.00 99.99 19 HSBC Equity UK Limited 100.00 78 HSBC Bank Armenia cjsc 70.00 19 HSBC Europe B. V. 100.00 16 HSBC Bank Australia Limited 100.00 HSBC Executor & Trustee Company UK 19 23 HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 3, 79 HSBC Bank Canada 100.00 4, 42 HSBC Factoring France 100.00 99.99 7, 60 HSBC Bank Capital Funding Sterling 1 LP n a 102 HSBC Finance Brunei Berhad 100.00 7, 60 HSBC Bank Capital Funding Sterling 2 LP n a 2, 19 HSBC Finance Netherlands 100.00 80 HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E 94.54 29 HSBC Finance Corporation 100.00 61 HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 100.00 19 HSBC Finance Limited 100.00 81 HSBC Bank Malta p. l. c. 70.03 103 HSBC Finance Mortgages Inc. 100.00 5, 82 HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 100.00 2, 19 HSBC Finance Transformation UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, 104 83 HSBC Financial Services Lebanon s. a. l. 99.60 Representative Office Morocco SARL 100.00 HSBC Financial Services Middle East Limited 105 85 HSBC Bank Nominee Jersey Limited 100.00 in liquidation 100.00 86 HSBC Bank Oman S. A. O. G. 51.00 HSBC Financial Services Uruguay S. A. in 106 19 HSBC Bank Pension Trust UK Limited 100.00 liquidation 100.00 3, 19 HSBC Bank plc 100.00 4, 42 HSBC France 99.99 3, 87 HSBC Bank Polska S. A.
100.00 108 HSBC Fund Services Korea Limited 92.95 3, 88 HSBC Bank USA, National Association 100.00 HSBC Funding UK Holdings active proposal 19 to strike off 100.00 19 HSBC Branch Nominee UK Limited 100.00 50 89 HSBC Germany Holdings GmbH 100.00 HSBC Brasil Holding S. A.
100.00 89 HSBC Global Asset Management Bermuda HSBC Brasil S. A. Banco fide Investimento 100.00 3, 23 Limited 100.00 68 HSBC Broking Forex Asia Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Canada 68 HSBC Broking Futures Asia Limited 100.00 79 Limited 100.00 68 HSBC Broking Futures Hong Kong Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management 68 HSBC Broking Securities Asia Limited 100.00 50 Deutschland GmbH 100.00 80.67 68 HSBC Broking Securities Hong Kong Limited 100.00 4, 110 HSBC Global Asset Management France 100.00 99.99 68 HSBC Broking Services Asia Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Hong Kong 25 HSBC Canadian Covered Bond Legislative GP 90 Limited 100.00 Inc 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management 111 HSBC Canadian Covered Bond Legislative 7, 90 International Limited in liquidation 100.00 n a Guarantor Limited Partnership 112 HSBC Global Asset Management Japan K. K. 100.00 29 HSBC Capital USA, Inc. 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Malta 7, 60 113 HSBC Capital Funding Dollar 1 L. P. n a 70.03 Limited 100.00 68 HSBC Capital Limited 100.00 29 HSBC Card Services Inc. 100.00 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 303 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements % of share class % of share class held by immediate held by immediate parent company or parent company or by the Group where by the Group where Subsidiaries this varies Footnotes Subsidiaries this varies Footnotes HSBC Global Asset Management Mxico, HSBC InvestDirect Financial Services India 133 18 S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad Operadora fide Fondos Limited 100.00 99.54 99.99 fide Inversin, Grupo Financiero HSBC HSBC InvestDirect Sales & Marketing India 65 HSBC Global Asset Management Oesterreich Limited 99.99 98.54 6, 114 100.00 80.67 GmbH HSBC InvestDirect Securities India Private 3, 133 HSBC Global Asset Management Singapore Limited 99.99 99.61 63 100.00 Limited 19 HSBC Investment Bank Holdings B. V. 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Switzerland 19 4, 115 HSBC Investment Bank Holdings Limited 100.00 100.00 90.33 AG HSBC Investment Company Egypt S. A. E in 1, 134 HSBC Global Asset Management Taiwan 94.54 liquidation 100.00 116 100.00 Limited 5, 135 HSBC Investment Funds Canada Inc. 100.00 19 HSBC Global Asset Management UK Limited 100.00 25 HSBC Investment Funds Hong Kong Limited 100.00 117 HSBC Global Asset Management USA Inc. 100.00 136 HSBC Investment Funds Luxembourg SA 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Holdings 118 138 HSBC Invoice Finance UK Limited 100.00 Bahamas Limited 100.00 HSBC Iris Investments Mauritius Ltd in 139 2, 19 HSBC Global Asset Management Limited 100.00 liquidation 100.00 19 HSBC Global Custody Nominee UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Issuer Services Common Depositary 19 HSBC Global Custody Proprietary Nominee Nominee UK Limited 100.00 19 UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Issuer Services Depositary Nominee 19 3, 119 HSBC Global Services Canada Limited 100.00 UK Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Global Services China Holdings Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Latin America B. V. 100.00 68 HSBC Global Services Hong Kong Limited 100.00 2, 19 HSBC Latin America Holdings UK Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Global Services UK Limited 100.00 68 HSBC Leasing Asia Limited 100.00 2, 19 HSBC Global Services Limited 100.00 4, 41 HSBC Leasing France 100.00 99.99 HSBC Global Shared Services India Private 23 65 HSBC Life International Limited 100.00 99.99 Limited in liquidation 100.00 124 HSBC Life Property Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Group Management Services Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Life UK Limited 100.00 1, 2, 19 HSBC Group Nominees UK Limited 100.00 113 HSBC Life Assurance Malta Limited 100.00 70.03 3, 19 HSBC Holdings B. V. 100.00 140 HSBC Life Insurance Company Limited 50.00 1, 19 HSBC IM Pension Trust Limited 100.00 HSBC Lodge Funding UK Holdings active 19 19 HSBC Infrastructure Limited 100.00 proposal to strike off 100.00 14, 120 HSBC INKA Investment-AG TGV 100.00 80.67 19 HSBC LU Nominees Limited 100.00 18 HSBC Inmobiliaria Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 22 HSBC Management Guernsey Limited 100.00 68 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Asia Limited 100.00 29 HSBC Markets USA Inc. 100.00 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Bermuda 23 19 HSBC Marking Name Nominee UK Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 HSBC Mexico, S. A. Institucion fide Banca 18 121 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Ireland DAC 100.00 99.99 99.99 Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC 100.00 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Mauritius 122 141 HSBC Middle East Finance Company Limited 80.00 Limited 100.00 2, 3, 82 HSBC Middle East Holdings B. V. 100.00 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Singapore 63 7, 142 HSBC Middle East Leasing Partnership n a Limited 100.00 9, 143 HSBC Middle East Securities L. L. C 49.00 124 HSBC Insurance Asia Limited 100.00 144 HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada 100.00 HSBC Insurance Asia-Pacific Holdings 5, 125 29 HSBC Mortgage Corporation USA 100.00 Limited 100.00 61 HSBC Nominees Asing Sdn Bhd 100.00 23 HSBC Insurance Bermuda Limited 100.00 68 HSBC Nominees Hong Kong Limited 100.00 63 HSBC Insurance Singapore Pte.
Limited 100.00 145 HSBC Nominees New Zealand Limited 100.00 117 HSBC Insurance Agency USA Inc. 100.00 61 HSBC Nominees Tempatan Sdn Bhd 100.00 127 HSBC Insurance Brokers Philippines Inc 100.00 99.99 3, 29 HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 100.00 2, 19 HSBC Insurance Holdings Limited 100.00 HSBC Odeme Sistemleri Bilgisayar Teknolojileri HSBC Insurance Management Services 146 128 Basin Yayin five Musteri Hizmetleri 99.99 Limited in liquidation 100.00 7, 147 HSBC Operational Services GmbH n a HSBC Insurance Services Lebanon S. A. L. in 129 2, 19 HSBC Overseas Holdings UK Limited 100.00 liquidation 97.70 HSBC Overseas Investments Corporation New 19 HSBC Insurance Services Holdings Limited 100.00 149 York 100.00 HSBC International Finance Corporation 130 19 HSBC Overseas Nominee UK Limited 100.00 Delaware 100.00 67 HSBC Participaciones Argentina S. A.
100.00 99.99 HSBC International Holdings Jersey Limited 85 150 in liquidation 100.00 HSBC PB Corporate Services 1 Limited 100.00 151 85 HSBC PB Services Suisse SA 100.00 HSBC International Limited in liquidation 100.00 121 HSBC Pension Trust Ireland DAC 100.00 HSBC International Nominees Limited in 1, 131 liquidation 100.00 152 HSBC Pensiones, S. A.
99.99 10, 132 122 HSBC International Trustee BVI Limited 100.00 HSBC PI Holdings Mauritius Limited 100.00 153 HSBC International Trustee Holdings Pte.
HSBC Portfoy Yonetimi A. S. 100.00 99.98 63 Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Preferential LP UK 100.00 131 HSBC International Trustee Limited 100.00 22 HSBC Private Bank C. I.
99.99 136 HSBC Private Bank Luxembourg S. A.
100.00 HSBC Inversiones y Servicios Financieros 4, 155 HSBC Private Bank Monaco SA 99.99 70 Limitada in liquidation 100.00 99.99 151 HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA 100.00 133 HSBC InvestDirect India Limited 99.99 99.54 19 HSBC Private Bank UK Limited 100.00 304 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 % of share class % of share class held by immediate held by immediate parent company or parent company or by the Group where by the Group where Subsidiaries this varies Footnotes Subsidiaries this varies Footnotes 156 29 HSBC Private Bank International 100.00 HSBC Technology & Services USA Inc. 100.00 151 6, 174 HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA 100.00 HSBC Transaction Services GmbH 100.00 80.67 136 HSBC Private Banking Nominee 3 Jersey HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt International S. A.
100.00 80.67 150 Limited 100.00 14, 50 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG 80.67 7, 29 HSBC Private Equity Advisors LLC n a HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt Gesellschaft fur 50 19 Bankbeteiligungen mbH 100.00 80.67 HSBC Private Equity Investments UK Limited 100.00 68 HSBC Private Trustee Hong Kong Limited 100.00 HSBC Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
5 50 GmbH 100.00 80.67 3, 157 HSBC Private Wealth Services Canada Inc. 100.00 6, 50 HSBC Trinkaus Family Office GmbH 100.00 80.67 HSBC Professional Services India Private 65 Limited 98.61 50 HSBC Trinkaus Immobilien Beteiligungs KG 100.00 80.67 19 6, 50 HSBC Property UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Trinkaus Real Estate GmbH 100.00 80.67 19 144 HSBC Property Funds Holding Limited 100.00 HSBC Trust Company Canada 100.00 HSBC Provident Fund Trustee Hong Kong HSBC Trust Company Delaware, National 68 175 Limited 100.00 Association 100.00 12, 158 19 HSBC Qianhai Securities Limited 100.00 51.00 HSBC Trust Company UK Limited 100.00 19 37 HSBC Rail UK Limited in liquidation 100.00 HSBC Trust Company AG 100.00 4, 46 150 HSBC Real Estate Leasing France 99.00 HSBC Trustee C. I.
Limited 100.00 3, 29 176 HSBC Realty Credit Corporation USA 100.00 HSBC Trustee Cayman Limited 100.00 4, 46 22 HSBC REIM France 100.00 99.99 HSBC Trustee Guernsey Limited 100.00 159 68 HSBC Representative Office Nigeria Limited 100.00 HSBC Trustee Hong Kong Limited 100.00 1, 2, 19 HSBC Retirement Benefits Trustee UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Trustee Mauritius Limited in 177 liquidation 100.00 1, 19 HSBC Retirement Services Limited 100.00 63 161 HSBC Trustee Singapore Limited 100.00 HSBC Savings Bank Philippines Inc. 99.99 178 68 HSBC UK Bank plc 100.00 HSBC Securities Asia Limited 100.00 19 119 HSBC UK Client Nominee Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Canada Inc. 100.00 2, 19 80 HSBC UK Holdings Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Egypt S. A. E. 100.00 94.54 3, 149 19 HSBC USA Inc. 100.00 HSBC Securities Japan Limited 100.00 94 1, 162 HSBC Violet Investments Mauritius Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Philippines Inc. 99.99 19 63 HSBC Wealth Client Nominee Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Singapore Pte Limited 100.00 153 163 HSBC Yatirim Menkul Degerler A. S. 99.98 HSBC Securities South Africa Pty Limited 100.00 29 164 HSI Asset Securitization Corporation 100.00 HSBC Securities Taiwan Corporation Limited 100.00 48 29 HSI International Limited 100.00 62.14 HSBC Securities USA Inc. 100.00 19 HSIL Investments Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities and Capital Markets India 5, 65 Private Limited 99.99 Hubei Macheng HSBC Rural Bank Company 12, 182 Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Asia International Nominees 165 Limited 100.00 Hubei Suizhou Cengdu HSBC Rural Bank 12, 183 Company Limited 100.00 68 HSBC Securities Asia Nominees Limited 100.00 68 Hubei Tianmen HSBC Rural Bank Company HSBC Securities Brokers Asia Limited 100.00 12, 184 Limited 100.00 68 HSBC Securities Investments Asia Limited 100.00 Hunan Pingjiang HSBC Rural Bank Company 23 HSBC Securities Services Bermuda Limited 100.00 12, 185 Limited 100.00 22 HSBC Securities Services Guernsey Limited 100.00 48 Imenson Limited 100.00 62.14 121 HSBC Securities Services Ireland DAC 100.00 7, 53 InfraRed NF China Real Estate Investments LP n a 136 HSBC Securities Services Luxembourg S. A.
100.00 INKA Internationale  131 HSBC Securities Services Holding Limited 100.00 174 mbH 100.00 80.67 HSBC Securities Services Holdings Ireland 121 18 Inmobiliaria Banci, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 98.91 DAC 100.00 18 Inmobiliaria Bisa, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 99.99 67 HSBC Seguros fide Retiro Argentina S. A.
100.00 99.99 18 Inmobiliaria Grufin, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 99.99 67 HSBC Seguros fide Vida Argentina S. A.
100.00 99.99 18 Inmobiliaria Guatusi, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 99.99 HSBC Seguros, S. A fide C. V. Grupo Financiero 3, 152 IRERE Property Investments French Offices HSBC 99.99 186 Sarl in liquidation 100.00 167 HSBC Service Delivery Polska Sp.
100.00 19 James Capel & Co. Limited 100.00 4, 42 HSBC Services France 99.99 James Capel Channel Islands Nominees 111 168 HSBC Services Japan Limited 100.00 Limited in liquidation 100.00 169 HSBC Services USA Inc. 100.00 19 James Capel Nominees Limited 100.00 18 HSBC Servicios Financieros, S. A. fide C. V 99.99 James Capel Second Nominees Limited in 36 liquidation 100.00 HSBC Servicios, S. A. fide C. V. Grupo 18 Financiero HSBC 99.99 19 James Capel Taiwan Nominees Limited 100.00 4, 46 HSBC SFH France 99.99 187 Jasmine22 Limited 100.00 170 HSBC Software Development Canada Inc 100.00 19 John Lewis Financial Services Limited 100.00 HSBC Software Development Guangdong 19 Keyser Ullmann Limited 100.00 99.99 12, 171 Limited 100.00 Kings Meadow Nominees Limited in 188 HSBC Software Development India Private liquidation 100.00 172 Limited 100.00 19 Legend Estates Limited in liquidation 100.00 HSBC Software Development Malaysia Sdn 68 Lion Corporate Services Limited 100.00 97 Bhd 100.00 131 Lion International Corporate Services Limited 100.00 5, 19 HSBC Specialist Investments Limited 100.00 131 Lion International Management Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Stockbrokers Nominee UK Limited 100.00 68 Lion Management Hong Kong Limited 100.00 12, 173 HSBC Technology & Services China Limited 100.00 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 305 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements % of share class % of share class held by immediate held by immediate parent company or parent company or by the Group where by the Group where Subsidiaries this varies Footnotes Subsidiaries this varies Footnotes 68 Lyndholme Limited 100.00 Sun Hung Kai Development Lujiazui III 12, 206 188 Limited 100.00 Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc 100.00 19 Marks and Spencer Retail Financial Services Swan National Leasing Commercials Limited 100.00 188 Holdings Limited in liquidation 100.00 19 Swan National Limited 100.00 Marks and Spencer Savings and Investments 4, 46 Thasosfin 100.00 99.99 188 Limited 100.00 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 68 Marks and Spencer Unit Trust Management Corporation Limited 100.00 188 Limited 100.00 19 The Venture Catalysts Limited 100.00 67 Maxima S. A. AFJP in liquidation 100.00 99.98 29 Timberlink Settlement Services USA Inc. 100.00 19 Mercantile Company Limited 100.00 1, 2, 19 Tooley Street View Limited 100.00 18 Mexicana fide Fomento, S. A. fide C. V. 99.90 207 Tower Investment Management 100.00 19 Midcorp Limited 100.00 Trinkaus Australien Immobilien Fonds Nr.
1 50 19 Midland Bank Branch Nominees Limited 100.00 Brisbane GmbH & Co. KG 100.00 80.67 19 Midland Nominees Limited 100.00 Trinkaus Australien Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
1 6, 50 193 Treuhand-GmbH 100.00 80.67 MIL Cayman Limited 100.00 150 MIL Jersey Limited 100.00 Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
3 Objekt 50 Utrecht Verwaltungs-GmbH 100.00 80.67 67 MW Gestion SA 100.00 3, 18 Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds Promocion en Bienes Raices, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 0.99 6, 50  100.00 80.67 Prudential Client HSBC GIS Nominee UK 19 6, 50 Limited 100.00 Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds Verwaltungs-GmbH 100.00 80.67 50 195 Trinkaus Private Equity Management GmbH 100.00 80.67 PT Bank HSBC Indonesia 100.00 98.93 6, 50 196 Trinkaus Private Equity Verwaltungs GmbH 100.00 80.67 PT HSBC Sekuritas Indonesia 100.00 85.00 193 29 Tropical Nominees Limited 100.00 R CLIP Corp. 100.00 19 29 Turnsonic Nominees Limited 100.00 Real Estate Collateral Management Company 100.00 209 22 Vadep Holding AG in liquidation 100.00 Republic Nominees Limited 100.00 4, 52 117 Valeurs Mobilires Elyses 100.00 99.99 Republic Overseas Capital Corporation 100.00 68 19 Wardley Limited 100.00 RLUKREF Nominees UK One Limited 100.00 68 19 Wayfoong Credit Limited in liquidation 100.00 RLUKREF Nominees UK Two Limited 100.00 68 11, 41 Wayfoong Finance Limited in liquidation 100.00 S. A. P. C. - Ufipro Recouvrement 99.97 68 4, 43 Wayfoong Nominees Limited 100.00 Saf Baiyun 100.00 99.99 118 4, 43 Wayhong Bahamas Limited 100.00 Saf Chang Jiang 100.00 99.99 7, 29 4, 43 Westminster House, LLC n a Saf Guangzhou 100.00 99.99 23 4, 43 Woodex Limited 100.00 Saf Zhu Jiang 100.00 99.99 48 4, 43 Yan Nin Development Company Limited 100.00 62.14 Saf Zhu Jiang Jiu 100.00 99.99 4, 43 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Ba 100.00 99.99 Joint ventures 4, 43 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Er 100.00 99.99 4, 43 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Jiu 100.00 99.99 The undertakings below are joint ventures and equity accounted.
4, 43 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Liu 100.00 99.99 4, 43 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Qi 100.00 99.99 % of share class held by immediate 4, 43 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Wu 100.00 99.99 parent company 4, 199 SAS BosquetAudrain 100.00 94.90 or by the Group Joint ventures where this varies Footnotes 4, 41 SAS Cyatheas Pasteur 100.00 94.93 36 HCM Holdings Limited 50.99 1, 4, 200 SAS Orona 100.00 94.92 15 House Network Sdn Bhd 25.00 11, 46 SCI HSBC Assurances Immo 100.00 99.99 HSBC Jintrust Fund Management Company 4, 42 SFM 99.99 12, 93 Limited 49.00 163 SFSS Nominees Pty Limited 100.00 191 HSBC Saudi Arabia 49.00 69.40 Shandong Rongcheng HSBC Rural Bank 12, 201 107 ProServe Bermuda Limited 50.00 Company Limited 100.00 208 Sino AG 24.94 20.11 202 Sico Limited 100.00 1, 7, 180 The London Silver Market Fixing Limited n a 1, 11, 203 SNC Dorique 100.00 99.99 109 Vaultex UK Limited 50.00 11, 43 SNC Kerouan 100.00 99.99 1, 11, 43 SNC Les Mercuriales 100.00 99.99 11, 46 SNC Les Oliviers D'Antibes 60.00 1, 11, 43 SNC Makala 100.00 99.99 1, 11, 43 SNC Nuku-Hiva Bail 100.00 99.99 1, 4, 43 SNCB M6 - 2008 A 100.00 99.99 1, 4, 43 SNCB M6-2007 A 100.00 99.99 1, 4, 43 SNCB M6-2007 B 100.00 99.99 Societe CCF Finance Moyen-Orient S. A. L. in 1, 32 liquidation 99.64 99.08 4, 43 Socit Franaise et Suisse 100.00 99.99 151 Societe Immobiliere Atlas S. A. in liquidation 100.00 121 Somers Dublin DAC 100.00 99.99 23 Somers Nominees Far East Limited 100.00 4, 43 Sopingest 100.00 99.99 19 South Yorkshire Light Rail Limited 100.00 19 St Cross Trustees Limited 100.00 306 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Associates Registered offices The undertakings below are associates and equity accounted.
21 Camden House West, The Parade, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B1 3PY 22 Arnold House St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 3NF % of share class 23 37 Front Street, Hamilton, Bermuda, HM 11 held by immediate parent company PO Box 513, Strathvale House, Ground Floor, 90 North Church Street, or by the Group 24 George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-1106 Associates where this varies Footnotes 25 HSBC Main Building, 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong 19.03 9, 126 Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. First Floor, Xinhua Bookstore Xindong Road SE of roundabout, Miyun 24.64 137 Barrowgate Limited 26 District, Beijing, China 24.48 140 BGF Group PLC 95 Washington Street, Buffalo, New York, United States Of America, 8.02 3, 9, 17 27 Bud Financial Limited 14203 Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, United States Of America, 148 28 Insurance Company Limited 26.00 19801 33.33 1, 3, 154 CFAC Payment Scheme Limited c o The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 29 Delaware, United States Of America, 19801 99.98 33.99 1, 160 Chemi & Cotex Rwanda Limited 99.99 33.99 1, 166 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Chemi & Cotex Kenya Limited 30 Delaware, United States Of America, 19808 100.00 33.99 1, 179 Chemi and Cotex Industries Limited 31 Unsoeldstrasse 2, Munich, Germany, 80538 40.58 68 EPS Company Hong Kong Limited Solidere - Rue Saad Zaghloul Immeuble - 170 Marfaa, PO Box 17 5476 33.00 1, 12, 181 GZHS Research Co Ltd 20.50 32 Mar Michael 11042040, Beyrouth, Lebanon HSBC Mortgage Limited Liability Partnership 7, 190 33 No 1, Bei Huan East Road Dazu County, Chongqing, China n a in liquidation No 107, Ping Du Avenue E, Sanhe Town, Fengdu County, Chongqing, 7,192 Icon Brickell LLC in liquidation n a 34 China 100.00 123 Jeppe Star Limited 33.99 No.
3, 5, 7, Haitang Erzhi Road, Changyuan, Rongchang, Chongqing, 33.33 142 MENA Infrastructure Fund GP Ltd 35 China, 402460 20.08 197 Northstar Trade Finance Inc. 36 Hill House, 1 Little New Street, London, United Kingdom, EC4A 3TR 33.99 198 Novo Star Limited 37 Bederstrasse 49, Zurich, Switzerland, CH-8002 7, 57 PEF 2005 A Limited Partnership n a Rawlinson and Hunter Limited, Woodbourne Hall, PO Box 3162, Road 7, 57 PEF 2005 D Limited Partnership n a 38 Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, VG1110 7, 57 PEF 2010 A Limited Partnership n a First & Second Floor, No.
3 Nanshan Road, Pulandian, Dalian, Liaoning, 33.46 91 39 Peregrine Capital India Private Limited China 7.06 1, 205 Prisma Medios fide Pago S. A. CT Corporation System, 225 Hillsborough Street, Raleigh, North Carolina, 40 United States Of America, 27603 10.51 9, 204 Quantexa Limited 14.35 4, 9, 59 Services Epargne Entreprise 41 39, rue fide Bassano, Paris, France, 75008 1, 7, 180 The London Gold Market Fixing Limited n a 42 103, avenue des Champs-Elyses, Paris, France, 75008 40.00 194 The Saudi British Bank 43 64, rue Galile, Paris, France, 75008 17.95 9, 123 Vizolution Limited MMG Tower, 23 floor, Ave. Paseo del Mar, Urbanizacion Costa del Este, 44 Panama We Trade Innovation Designated Activity 9, 84 8.52 Company Walkers Corporate Services Limited, Walker House, 87 Mary Street, 45 George Town, Grand Cayman KY1-9005, Cayman Islands 46 15, rue Vernet, Paris, France, 75008 Footnotes for Note 39 47 No.
1 1211 Yanjiang Zhong Road, Yongan, Fujian, China 48 83 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong 1 Management has determined that these undertakings are excluded from c o Maples Corporate Services Limited, Ugland House, PO Box 309, consolidation in the Group accounts as these entities do not meet the 49 definition of subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS.
HSBCs consolidation Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands policy is described in Note 1.2 a.
50 Knigsallee 21 23, Dsseldorf, Germany, 40212 2 Directly held by HSBC Holdings plc No.
44, Xin Ping Road Central, Encheng, Enping, Guangdong, China, 51 529400 Description of shares 52 109 avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris, France, 75008 3 Preference Shares 53 Regency Court, Glategny Esplanade, St. Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 1WW 4 Actions 34 F and 36 F, Hang Seng Bank Tower, 1000 Lujiazui Ring Road, China 5 Redeemable Preference Shares 54 Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China, 200120 6 GmbH Anteil 55 11-17 Ludwig-Erhard-Str.
Hamburg, Germany, 20459 7 This undertaking is a partnership and does not have share capital Commerce House, Wickhams Cay 1, P. O.
Box 3140, Road Town, Tortola, 8 Liquidating Share Class 56 Tortola, British Virgin Islands 9 HSBC Holdings plc exercises control or significant influence over this 57 Suite 1020, 885 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, BC, V6C 3E8 undertaking notwithstanding its equity interest The Corporation Trust Company of Nevada 311 S. Division Street, Carson 10 Non-Participating Voting Shares 58 City, Nevada, United States Of America, 89703 11 Parts 59 32 Rue du Champ fide Tir, 44300 Nantes 12 Registered Capital Shares 60 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 8UB 13 Russian Limited Liability Company Shares 61 10th Floor, North Tower 2 Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50100 14 Stckaktien 62 13th Floor, South Tower 2 Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50100 63 21 Collyer Quay, #13-02 HSBC Building, Singapore, 049320 Bouchard 557, Piso 18, Cdad.
Autnoma fide Buenos Aires, Argentina, Registered offices 64 1106 Lot 6.05, Level 6, KPMG Tower 8 First Avenue, Bandar Utama Petaling 65 52 60 M G Road, Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001 15 Jaya Selangor, Darul Ehsan, Malaysia 47800 PO Box 513 HSBC House, 68 West Bay Road, George Town, Grand Level 36 Tower 1 International Towers Sydney, 100 Barangaroo Avenue, 66 Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-1102 16 Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, 2000 557 Bouchard, Level 22, Ciudad fide Buenos Aires, Capital federal, 17 First Floor The Bower, 207 Old Street, London, England, EC1V 9NR 67 Argentina, C1106ABG 18 Paseo fide la Reforma 347, Col. Cuauhtemoc, Mexico, 06500 68 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong 19 8 Canada Square, London, United Kingdom, E14 5HQ 3rd Floor, Merchantile Bank Chamber 16, Veer Nariman Road, Fort, 69 20 5 Donegal Square South, Belfast, Northern Ireland, BT1 5JP Mumbai, India, 400001 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 307 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the financial statements Registered offices Registered offices Isidora Goyenechea 2800, 23rd floor, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile, 116 24th Fl.
Taipei, Taiwan, R. O. C. Taiwan 70 7550647 117 452 Fifth Avenue, New York NY10018, United States Of America HSBC Building Shanghai ifc, 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, Shanghai, China, 118 Mareva House, 4 George Street, Nassau, Bahamas 71 200120 119 70 York Street, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 1S9 72 6th floor, HSBC Centre, 18, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 120 Breite Str.
29 31, Dsseldorf, Germany, 40213 73 2 Paveletskaya square, building 2, Moscow, Russian Federation, 115054 121 1 Grand Canal Square, Grand Canal Harbour, Dublin 2, D02 P820, Ireland 74 13F-14F, 333 Keelung Road, Sec.
1, Taipei, 110 122 HSBC Centre Eighteen, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 75 25 fide Mayo 471, Montevideo, Uruguay, 11000 Office Block A, Bay Studios Business Park, Fabian Way, Swansea, United Kingdom, SA1 8QB The Metropolitan 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Viet 123 76 Nam 18th Floor, Tower 1, HSBC Centre, 1 Sham Mong Road, Kowloon, Hong 77 Esentepe mah.
128 Istanbul 34394, Turkey 124 Kong 78 66 Teryan Street, Yerevan, Armenia, 0009 Level 32, HSBC Main Building, 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong SAR, 125 Hong Kong 885 West Georgia Street, 3rd Floor, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, 79 V6C 3E9 No.
188, Yin Cheng Zhong Road China Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone, 126 80 306 Corniche El Nil, Maadi, Egypt, 11728 Shanghai, China 81 116 Archbishop Street, Valletta, Malta 7 F HSBC Centre 3058 Fifth Ave West, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City, 127 Philippines Level 1, Building No.
8, Gate Village Dubai International Financial Centre, 82 PO Box 502601, United Arab Emirates 128 1 More London Place, London, United Kingdom, SE1 2AF 83 Tour Crystal 1 10EME Etage BD Al Mohades 20000, Morocco HSBC Building Minet El Hosn, Riad el Solh, Beirut 1107-2080, PO Box 129 11-1380, Lebanon 84 10 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin, Ireland D02 T380 85 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1HS 300 Delaware Avenue Suite 1400, Wilmington, Delaware, United States 130 Of America, 19801 86 Al Khuwair Office, PO Box 1727 PC111 CPO Seeb, Muscat, Oman 131 Craigmuir Chambers, PO Box 71, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 87 Rondo ONZ 1, Warsaw, Poland, 00-124 1800 Tysons Corner, Boulevard Suite 50, Tysons Corner, Virginia, United 132 Woodbourne Hall, Road Town PO Box 916, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 88 States Of America, 22102 9-11 Floors, NESCO IT Park Building No.
3 Western Express Highway, 133 Goregaon East, Mumbai, India, 400063 Rua Funchal, n 160, SP Corporate Towers, Torre Norte, 19 andar, cj 89 191A - Parte, So Paulo, Brazil, 04551-060 134 3, Aboul Feda Street, Zamalek, Cairo, Egypt 66 Wellington Street West, Suite 5300, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5K 300 - 885 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, V6C 90 1E6 135 3E9 Rahejas, 4th Floor, Corner of Main Avenue & V. P. Road, Santacruz West, 136 16 Boulevard d'Avranches, Luxembourg, L-1160 91 Mumbai - 400054 137 49 F, The Lee Gardens, 33 Hysan Avenue, Hong Kong 90 North Church Street, Strathvale House - Ground Floor, PO Box 1109, 138 21 Farncombe Rd, Worthing, Sussex, BN11 2BW 92 George Town, Grand Cayman, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-1102 c o Kross Border Trust Services Limited St. Louis Business Centre, Cnr 139 Desroches & St Louis Streets, Port Louis, Mauritius 17F, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, Shanghai, 93 China 140 13 - 15 York Buildings, London, United Kingdom, WC2N 6JU c o Rogers Capital, St. Louis Business Centre, Cnr Desroches & St Louis Plot No.
of Sheikh Hamdan Bin Rashid, 94 Streets, Port Louis, Mauritius 141 Dubai Creek, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 95 49 avenue J. F. Kennedy, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, 1855 Precinct Building 4, Level 3 Dubai International Financial Centre, Dubai, 142 4-17 F, Office Tower 2 TaiKoo Hui, No.
381 Tian He Road, Tian He District, United Arab Emirates, PO BOX 506553 96 Guangzhou, Guangdong, China HSBC Bank Middle East Building - Level 5, building 5, Emaar, Dubai, 143 United Arab Emirates, 502601 Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah Kwong Hing No.
1, Leboh 97 Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50100 885 West Georgia Street Suite 300, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, 144 HSBC, Filinvest One Bldg, Northgate Cyberzone, Filinvest Corporate City, V6C 3E9 98 Alabang, Muntinlupa City, Philippines 145 HSBC House, Level 9, One Queen Street, Auckland, New Zealand, 1010 HSBC House, Plot No.
64 Part, Hightec City Layout 146 Bykdere Cad.
122 D Blok Esentepe Sisli Istanbul, Turkey 99 Madhapur, Hyderabad, India, 500081 147 21-23 Yorckstrae, Dsseldorf, Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany, 40476 439, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha Welikada, Rajagiriya, Colombo, Sri Unit No.
208, 2nd Floor, Kanchenjunga Building 18 Barakhamba Road, 100 Lanka 148 New Delhi - 110001, India Smart Village 28th Km CairoAlexandria Desert Road Building, Cairo, 101 The Corporation Trust Incorporated, 2405 York Road, Suite 201, Lutherville Egypt 149 Timonium, Maryland, United States Of America, 21093 HSBC Chambers, Corner of Jalan Sultan Jalan Pemancha, Bandar Seri 150 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1GT 102 Begawan, Brunei Darussalam, BS8811 151 Quai des Bergues 9-17, Geneva, Switzerland, 1201 103 Suite 300, 3381 Steeles Avenue East, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M2H 3S7 152 Paseo fide la Reforma 359, 6th Floor, Mexico, 06500 Centre Ville 1341 Building - 4th Floor Patriarche Howayek Street facing 104 153 Bykdere Cad.
128 D Blok Esentepe Sisli Istanbul, Turkey Beirut Souks, PO Box Riad El Solh, Lebanon, 9597 154 6th Floor, 65 Gresham Street, London, United Kingdom, EC2V 7NQ First Floor, Building No.
Box 502601, Dubai, Dubai, 105 United Arab Emirates, 00000 155 17, avenue d'Ostende, Monaco, 98000 156 1441 Brickell Avenue, Miami, Florida, United States Of America, 33131 World Trade Center Montevideo Avenida Luis Alberto fide Herrera 1248, 106 Torre 1, Piso 15, Oficina 1502, Montevideo, Uruguay, CP 11300 157 2910 Virtual Way, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, V5M 0B2 c o MUFG Fund Services Bermuda Limited, The Belvedere Building, 69 Block 27 A&B, Qianhai Enterprise Dream Park No.
63 Qianwan Yi Road, 158 Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation Zone, Shenzhen, China, 518052 107 Pitts Bay Road, Pembroke, Bermuda, HM08 159 St Nicholas House, 10th Floor Catholic Mission St Lagos, Nigeria Level 12, HSBC Building 37, Chilpae-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea, Republic 108 Of South 160 Kacyiru BP 3094, Kigali, Rwanda 109 All Saints Triangle, Caledonian Road, London, United Kingdom, N19UT Unit 1 GF The Commercial Complex, Madrigal Avenue, Ayala Alabang 161 Village, Muntinlupa City, Philippines, 1770 Immeuble Coeur Dfense 110, Esplanade du Gnral fide GaulleLa 110 dfense 4, Courbevoie, France, 92400 7 F The Enterprise Centre - Tower I, 6766 Ayala Avenue corner Paseo fide 162 Roxas, Makati City, Philippines 111 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 8WP 2 Exchange Square, 85 Maude Street, Sandown, Sandton, South Africa, HSBC Building 11-1, Nihonbashi 3-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 163 2196 112 103-0027 164 13F 333 Keelung Road, Sec.
1, Taipei, Taiwan, 110 113 80 Mill Street, Qormi, Malta, QRM 3101 165 Palm Grove House PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 114 Herrengasse 1-3, Wien, Austria, 1010 115 Gartenstrasse 26, Zurich, Switzerland 308 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Registered offices R No.
1758 13 Grevella Grove Road, Kalamu House PO Box 47323-00100, 166 Nairobi, Kenya 167 Kapelanka 42A, Krakow, Poland, 30-347 MB&H Corporate Services Ltd, Mareva House, 4 George Street, Nassau, 168 Bahamas The Corporation Trust Company, 820 Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton, 169 New Jersey, United States Of America, 08628 170 Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver, Canada, BC V6E 0C5 L22, Office Tower 2, Taikoo Hui, 381 Tianhe Road, Tianhe District, 171 Guangzhou, Guangdong, Guangdong, China HSBC Centre River Side, West Avenue, 25B Raheja woods, Kalyaninagar, 172 Pune, India, 411006 Level 19, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc 8 Century Avenue Pudong, 173 Shanghai, China 174 Yorckstrae 21 - 23 40476, Duesseldorf, Germany 300 Delaware Avenue, Suite 1401, Wilmington, Delaware, United States 175 Of America, 19801 PO Box 484, Strathvale House, Ground Floor, 90 North Church Street, 176 George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-1106 c o HSBC Bank Mauritius Limited, 6th Floor, HSBC Centre, 18 Cyber 177 City, Ebene, Mauritius 178 1 Centenary Square, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B1 1HQ 179 Plot No.
89-90 Mbezi Industrial Area Box 347, Dar es Salaam City c o Hackwood Secretaries Limited, One Silk Street, London, United 180 Kingdom, EC2Y 8HQ Room 1303, 106 Feng Ze Dong Road, Nansha District, Guangzhou, 181 Guangdong, China 182 No.
56, Yu Rong Street, Macheng, China, 438300 183 No.
205, Lie Shan Road Suizhou, Hubei, China Building 3, Yin Zuo Di Jing Wan Tianmen New City, Tianmen, Hubei 184 Province, China RM101, 102 & 106 Sunshine Fairview, Sunshine Garden, Pedestrian 185 Walkway, Pingjiang, China 186 6, rue Adolphe, Luxembourg, L-1116 187 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong Kings Meadow Chester Business Park, Chester, United Kingdom, CH99 188 9FB 2-3 F, Unit 21A, Qianhai Enterprise Dream Park, No.
63 Qian Wan Yi 189 Road, Qianhai Shenzhen-Hongkong Cooperation Zone, Shenzhen, China 190 40a Station Road, Upminster, United Kingdom, RM14 2TR HSBC Building 7267 Olaya - Al Murrooj, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 12283 - 191 2255 C T Corporation System, 1200 South Pine Island Road, Plantation, Florida, 192 United States Of America, 33324 PO Box 1109, Strathvale House, 90 North Church Street, George Town, 193 Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 194 Al Amir Abdulaziz Ibn Mossaad Ibn Jalawi Street, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia World Trade Center 1, Floor 8-9 Jalan Jenderal Sudirman Kavling 29 - 31, 195 Jakarta, Indonesia, 12920 5th Floor, World Trade Center, J1, Jend.
29-31, Jakarta, 196 Indonesia, 12920 833 Three Bentall Centre, 595 Burrard Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, 197 Canada, V7X 1C4 Jayla Place Wickhams Cay I, PO Box 3190, Road Town, British Virgin 198 Islands 199 15 rue Guynemer BP 412, Noumea, 98845 200 10, rue Jean Jaurs BP Q5, Noumea, New Caledonia, 98845 201 No.
198-2, Chengshan Avenue E, Rongcheng, China, 264300 202 Woodbourne Hall, Road Town PO Box 3162, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 203 43 rue fide Paris, Saint Denis, 97400 204 75 Park Lane, Croydon, Surrey, United Kingdom, CR9 1XS Avda.
Corrientes 1437, 2 y 3 piso Ciudad Autonoma fide Buenos Aires 205 Argentina C1042AAA RM 2112, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc No.
8 Century Road, Pudong, 206 Shanghai, China, 200120 11 Dr. Roys Drive PO Box 694GT, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 207 KY1-1107 208  1, Duesseldorf, Germany, 40212 209 Philippe Kaiser Baarerstrasse 8, Zug, Switzerland, 6300 1 Royal Plaza, Royal Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, 210 GY1 2HL HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 309 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
