Report of the Directors | Directors responsibility statement The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2018, Directors responsibility statement taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Accounts 2018, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the regulations.
Report of the Directors: Corporate governance report on pages 153 to 157 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018, confirm that, Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial to the best of their knowledge: statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the parent company Company and Group the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in financial statements in accordance with International Financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have also loss of the Group: and elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International the management report represented by the Report of the Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law, the Directors includes a fair review of the development and Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they performance of the business and the position of the Group, are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of together with a description of the principal risks and affairs of the Company and Group, and of the profit or loss of the uncertainties that it faces.
Company and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: The GAC has responsibility, delegated to it from the Board, for overseeing all matters relating to external financial reporting.
The select suitable accounting policies and then apply them GAC report on page 159 sets out how the GAC discharges its consistently: responsibilities.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Disclosure of Information to Auditors prudent: In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Directors report includes a statement, in the case of each Director Union and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed, subject to in office as at the date the Report of the Directors is approved, any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial that: statements: and so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will continue in business.
they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys are aware of that information.
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group enabling them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
On behalf of the Board The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 as they appear on the Mark E Tucker Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Group Chairman the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
19 February 2019 206 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
