Glossary CO2 intensity factor A H Scope 1 and 2 carbon dioxide equivalent metric, reported as kilogrammes per $000 AED HPSP of revenue.
CPI AGM HSE Consumer Price Index.
CTR AMG I Currency translation reserve.
Advanced Manufacturing Group combines the precision engineering and manufacturing IAS D capabilities in Huntings US segment for the International Accounting Standards.
Electronics division Hunting Innova, Hunting DEFRA Specialty and Hunting Dearborn product IFRIC UK Department for Environment, Food & lines.
Hunting is aiming to become a leading International Financial Reporting Rural Affairs.
single source of MWD LWD tools.
Diluted EPS API IKTVA Diluted earnings per share calculated by American Petroleum Institute.
The in-Kingdom total value add programme dividing earnings from operations before created by Saudi Aramco to baseline, amortisation and exceptional items attributable Average gross capital employed measure and support increased levels of to Ordinary shareholders by the weighted See NGM O. localisation in the Kingdom.
average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year, as adjusted for all potentially B IFRS dilutive Ordinary shares.
International Financial Reporting Standards Basic EPS as adopted by the European Union.
Dividend cover Basic earnings per share calculated by See NGM N. dividing the earnings from operations before Incident rate amortisation and exceptional items attributable The US Occupational Safety and Health Downhole to Ordinary shareholders by the weighted Administration OSHA Recordable Incident Downhole refers to something that is located average number of Ordinary shares in issue Rate or Incident Rate is calculated by within the wellbore.
multiplying the number of recordable incidents by 200,000 and then dividing that DPS bbl number by the number of labour hours worked.
See NGM M. Barrel of oil one barrel of oil equals 159 litres or 42 US gallons.
Intensity factor E The total controlled Scope 1 and Scope 2 BOE emissions divided by the total revenue of the EBITDA Barrel of oil equivalent.
See NGM A. bn Internal manufacturing reject rate ESOP Billion.
Percentage of parts rejected during the Executive Share Option Plan.
C F Inventory days c See NGM D. FRC Cents.
IOC CAGR International Oil Company.
Free cash flow Compound annual growth rate.
See NGM L. IP Capital employed Intellectual Property.
FVLCD See NGM G. Fair value less costs of disposal.
ISO Capital investment Capex International Standards Organisation.
G See NGM J. K GAAP CGU Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Gearing CNY See NGM H. Chinese Yuan Renminbi.
Growth capital investment CO e 2 See NGM J.
170 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information L P T Lean p TSR A production practice that eliminates wasteful Pence.
Total Shareholder Return the net share processes, thereby reducing production time price change plus the dividends paid during and costs, and improving efficiency.
UAE LPG United Arab Emirates.
PDMR Person discharging managerial Underlying LTIP responsibilities.
Results for the year, as reported under Long-Term Incentive Plan.
IFRS, adjusted for amortisation of intangible PPE assets recognised as part of a business M Property, plant and equipment.
combination and exceptional items, which is the basis used by the Directors in assessing m PSI performance.
UKLA 3 m PSP UK Listing Authority.
Wellbore RCF The wellbore refers to the drilled hole.
Well completion Receivable days Well completion refers to the processes of MWD LWD See NGM E. preparing a well for production.
This involves  Logging-whilethe assembly of downhole tubulars and drilling.
Recordable incidents equipment required to enable safe and An incident is recordable if it results in any efficient production from an oil or gas well.
N of the following: death, days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job, Well construction Net cash debt medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss Well construction refers to the initial drilling See note 23. of consciousness.
Also included are any and processes of constructing the wellbore in significant injuries or illnesses diagnosed by an oil and gas well.
These processes typically NGM a physician or other licensed health care include drilling and logging the hole: running, Non-GAAP measure see pages 161 to 165. professional, even if it does not result in cementing and logging the casing: hydraulic death, days away from work, restricted work fracturing or stimulating the well and NOC or job transfer, medical treatment beyond first monitoring well performance and integrity.
aid, or loss of consciousness.
Well intervention NYMEX Replacement capital investment Well intervention refers to any operation New York Mercantile Exchange.
See NGM J. carried out on an oil or gas well that maintains or enhances the production of the well or O ROCE provides well diagnostics.
See NGM O. OCI Working capital Other comprehensive income.
S See NGM C. OCTG Scope 1 WTI Oil Country Tubular Goods pipe and tubular Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions West Texas Intermediate the price per barrel goods and products used in the oil and gas from sources that are owned or controlled by of Texas light sweet crude oil.
industry, such as drill pipe, pipe casing and the entity.
Scope 1 emissions include fossil Non-GAAP measure.
fuels burned on site, emissions from vehicles and other direct sources.
Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG OPEC emissions resulting from the generation of Organization of the Petroleum Exporting electricity, heating and cooling or steam Countries.
generated off site but purchased by the entity.
SHARP Safety and Health Achievement Recognition Programme.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 171
