Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Notes to the financial statements 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies The Group regularly reviews market and financial forecasts, and has Authorisation of financial statements reviewed its trading prospects in its key markets.
As a result it believes The consolidated financial statements of Ibstock plc, which has a its trading performance will demonstrate continued improvement in premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, for the year ended the coming periods, and that liquidity will remain strong.
31 December 2018 were authorised for issue in accordance with The Board has reviewed the latest forecasts of the Group and a resolution of the Directors on 4 March 2019.
The balance sheet considered the obligations of the financing arrangements.
Given the was signed on behalf of the Board by J Hudson and K Sims.
continued strong liquidity of the Group the Board has concluded that Ibstock plc is a public company limited by shares, which is incorporated the going concern basis of accounting of its financial statements is in the United Kingdom and registered in England.
The registered appropriate for period of at least 12 months from approval of the office is Leicester Road, Ibstock, Leicestershire LE67 6HS and the financial statements.
In considering the Groups going concern status, management has The principal activities of the Group are set out in the Strategic modelled the impact of a financial downturn including as a possible Report on pages 1 to 56. result of Brexit and has concluded that there will be no material impact of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
In Basis of preparation addition, see the Groups Viability Statement set out on page 56.
The consolidated financial statements of Ibstock plc for the year ended 31 December 2018 have been prepared in accordance with New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as revised in July 2014 replaces the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of provisions of IAS 39 that relate to the recognition, classification and the Companies Act 2006. measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, derecognition of financial instruments, impairment of financial assets and hedge These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, accounting.
The adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from under the historical cost convention.
1January 2018 resulted in changes in accounting policies and The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling adjustments to the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except The new accounting policies are set out below.
In accordance with where otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies are the transitional provisions in IFRS 9 7.2.
figures have not been restated.
Basis of consolidation There was no impact on the Groups retained earnings as at The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2017 arising from the transition.
statements of Ibstock plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2018.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the Classification and measurement: On 1 January 2018 the date of same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent initial application of IFRS 9, the Groups management has assessed accounting policies.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income which business models apply to the financial assets held by the Group and expenses and profit and losses resulting from intra-Group and has classified its financial instruments into the appropriate IFRS 9 transactions have been eliminated in full.
The main result of this change is that all financial assets from the date on which the Group obtains control and cease to be that were classified as Loans and Receivables under IAS 39 are consolidated from the date on which the Group no longer retains now classified as Amortised Cost under IFRS 9. control.
Details of all the subsidiaries of the Group are given in Impairment of financial assets: All financial assets held within the Note29.
Group are now subject to IFRS 9s new expected credit loss model.
The subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group was required to revise its impairment methodology under The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has IFRS 9 for each of these classes of assets.
For Trade Receivables, the rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected has the ability to affect those returns through its power over credit losses, which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all theentity.
All other financial assets are considered to be low risk, and therefore the impairment provision When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the gain or loss on is determined as the 12-month expected credit loss.
No change was disposal recognised in profit or loss is calculated as the difference noted in the Groups retained earnings and equity arising from the between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration and adoption of the new impairment methodology.
the fair value of any retained interests and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, less liabilities of the Derivatives and hedge accounting: The Group does not trade in subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
All amounts previously derivative financial instruments and does not apply hedge accounting, recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that and as a result no impact is noted from the new requirements of subsidiary are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed IFRS 9. of the related assets or liabilities of the subsidiary i. e. reclassified IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with revenue to profit or loss or transferred to another category of equity recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information as specified permitted by applicable IFRSs.
to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and Going concern uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer affect its future development, performance and position are set out obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct in the business review on pages 48 to 51.
The financial position of the the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction described in the Directors Report on 108 and 109.
In addition, contracts and related interpretations.
IFRS 15 has been applied for all Note 23 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with fully retrospective policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk application.
The Group completed an assessment of the impact of management objectives: details of its financial instruments and IFRS 15 and determined that application of the standard had no hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
material impact on the Groups financial reporting.
123 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued operations of the Group were disposed of on 23 November 2018 A number of new standards and amendments to standards and and are classified as discontinued operations.
interpretations are effective for periods beginning after 1 January Foreign currency translation 2018, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated a Functional and presentation currency financial statements.
None of these is expected to have a significant Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic the following set out below: environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
IFRS 16, Leases in January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, on accounting for leases, which specifies how an IFRS reporter which is the Groups presentation currency.
will recognise, measure, present and disclose leases.
The standard On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to i. e. subsidiaries with a functional currency that is not Sterling recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the is 12months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
Lessors reporting date and their results are translated at the actual rates continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16s prevailing at the date of the transactions or average rates, with a approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its reasonable approximation and the effect of fair value adjustment on predecessor, IAS 17.
The Group has adopted IFRS 16 from the assets and liabilities are treated as part of the assets and liabilities 1January2019.
The currency translation differences are At the commencement date of a lease, a lessee will recognise a recorded in the currency translation reserve within other liability to make lease payments i. e. the lease liability and an asset comprehensive income and accumulated in equity in the currency representing the right to use the underlying asset during the lease translation reserve.
term i. e. the right-of-use asset.
Lessees will be required to b Transactions and balances separately recognise the interest expense on the lease liability and Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional the depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset.
Under IFRS 16 currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the lessees will be required to remeasure the lease liability upon the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured.
Foreign occurrence of certain events e. g. a change in lease term or a change exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such in future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or rate transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of used to determine those payments.
The lessee will generally monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognise the amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset.
comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying This standard will have a material effect on the Groups consolidated net investment hedges.
The Group does not currently undertake financial statements as follows: such hedges.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the Income statement: Operating expenses will decrease, as the Group income statement within net finance costs.
All other foreign currently recognises operating lease costs within either cost of sales exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement.
or administrative expenses, depending upon the nature of the lease.
The Groups lease expense for the year ended 31 December 2018 Property, plant and equipment was 6,837,000 from continuing operations as set out in Note 6 to Property, plant and equipment is stated at the cost to the Group the financial statements.
Depreciation and finance costs as currently less depreciation.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes reported in the Groups Income Statement will increase, as under directly attributable costs.
Details of cost and accumulated the new standard the right-of-use asset will be capitalised and depreciation are included in Note 14. depreciated over the term of the lease with an associated finance Depreciation is provided on the cost of all other assets except assets cost applied annually to the lease liability.
in the course of construction and land, so as to write off the cost, Balance sheet: At transition date, the Group will determine the less residual value, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lease payments outstanding at that date and apply the appropriate economic life of the assets concerned, as follows: discount rate to calculate the present value of the lease payments.
Asset classification Useful life The Group is currently considering adopting the new standard by Land Not depreciated applying the modified retrospective approach.
The Groups Freehold buildings 20 50 years commitment outstanding on all leases as at 31 December 2018 was Plant, machinery and equipment 5 40 years 41,583,000 as set out in Note 27 of the financial statements.
The Mineral reserves Amortised on a usage basis Group continues to assess the impact of the new standard and whilst the exact financial impact is currently unknown due to the number Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for mineral of factors still to be finalised such as discount rate, expected lease deposits with economic potential and is not capitalised.
Evaluation terms, this provides an indication of the scale of the leases held and expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of deposits or other how significant they are within the Ibstock plc Group.
projects that have been identified as having economic potential and in obtaining permissions to extract clay.
Capitalisation of evaluation In addition to the impacts above, there will also be significantly expenditure within Mineral reserves commences when there is a increased disclosures when the Group adopts IFRS 16. high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project Segment reporting is commercially viable, i. e. the project will provide a satisfactory Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the return relative to its perceived risks, and therefore it is considered internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
The chief operating decision-maker CODM, who is responsible Mineral reserves may be declared for an undeveloped project before for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating its commercial viability has been fully determined.
Evaluation costs segments, has been identified as the Chief Executive Officer and may continue to be capitalised during the period between Chief Finance Officer of the Group.
The CODM reviews the key declaration of reserves and approval to extract clay as further work profit measure, Adjusted EBITDA.
In year ended 31 December 2018, is undertaken in order to refine the development case to maximise this measure was disaggregated by UK and US based on geographical the projects returns.
location and the organisational structure of the Group.
The US 124 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are Recognition and derecognition reviewed for impairment by management.
Mineral reserves are Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised amortised on a usage basis.
on trade-date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights Useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have date and revised where expectations are significantly different from been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the previous estimates.
In such cases, the depreciation charge for current risks and rewards of ownership.
and future periods is adjusted accordingly.
Measurement The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through carrying value may not be recoverable.
profit or loss FVPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable Intangible assets to the acquisition of the financial asset.
Separately acquired brands and non-contractual customer Debt instruments relationships are shown at historical cost.
Brands and customer Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends of the relationships have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less Groups business model for managing the asset and the cash flow accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the characteristics of the asset.
There are three measurement categories straight-line method to allocate the cost of brands and customer into which the Group classifies its debt instruments: relationships over their estimated useful lives as follows: Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual Asset classification Useful life cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments Brands 1050 years of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost.
Interest Customer relationships 1020 years income from these financial assets is included in finance income Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of using the effective interest rate method.
Any gain or loss arising on the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives of three in other gains losses together with foreign exchange gains and to five years.
Impairment losses are presented as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss.
For further details see Note 13.
Impairment Impairment of non-financial assets From 1 January 2018, the Group assesses on a forward looking Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation such as basis the expected credit losses associated with its debt instruments brands and non-contractual customer relationships and property, carried at amortised cost and FVOCI.
The impairment methodology plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may in credit risk.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified not be recoverable.
approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables, carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable see Note 23 for further details.
amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs of disposal and Accounting policies applied until 31 December 2017: value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are The Group has applied IFRS 9 retrospectively, but has elected not grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent to restate comparative information.
As a result, the comparative cash inflows cash-generating units.
Prior impairments of noninformation provided continues to be accounted for in accordance financial assets other than goodwill are reviewed for possible with the Groups previous accounting policy.
reversal at each reporting date.
Classification Inventories Until 31 December 2017, the Group classified its financial assets Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
in the following categories: Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Raw materials, consumables and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: goods for resale are recognised on a weighted average cost basis, loans and receivables: and while work in progress and finished goods are held at direct cost and available-for-sale financial assets.
an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Net realisable The classification depended on the purpose for which the financial value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, assets were acquired.
Management determined the classification less applicable variable selling expenses.
of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Investments and other financial assets Reclassification Classification The Group could choose to reclassify a non-derivative trading From 1 January 2018, the group classifies its financial assets in the financial asset out of the held for trading category if the financial following measurement categories: asset was no longer held for the purpose of selling it in the near term.
those to be measured subsequently at fair value either through Financial assets other than loans and receivables were permitted OCI or through profit or loss : and to be reclassified out of the held for trading category only in rare those to be measured at amortised cost.
circumstances arising from a single event that was unusual and highly unlikely to recur in the near term.
In addition, the Group could The classification depends on the entitys business model for choose to reclassify financial assets that would meet the definition of managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the loans and receivables out of the held for trading or available-for-sale cash flows.
categories if the Group had the intention and ability to hold these The Group reclassifies debt investments when and only when financial assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity at the its business model for managing those assets changes.
125 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Borrowings Reclassifications were made at fair value as of the reclassification Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of directly date.
Fair value became the new cost or amortised cost as applicable, attributable transaction costs incurred.
All other costs are expensed and no reversals of fair value gains or losses recorded before as incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost.
reclassification date were subsequently made.
Effective interest Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has rates for financial assets reclassified to loans and receivables and an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least held-to-maturity categories were determined at the reclassification 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Further increases in estimates of cash flows adjusted effective interest rates prospectively.
Finance cost on borrowings is treated as an expense in the income statement, with the exception of interest costs incurred on the Subsequent measurement financing of major projects, which are capitalised within property, The measurement at initial recognition did not change on adoption plant and equipment, where material.
There were no borrowing of IFRS 9, see description above.
costs capitalised during the current or prior years.
Subsequent to the initial recognition, loans and receivables and Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as held-to-maturity investments were carried at amortised cost using transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that the effective interest method.
some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee Details on how the fair value of financial instruments is determined is deferred until the draw-down occurs.
To the extent there is no are disclosed in Note 23.
When securities classified as  that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be sale were sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity in other comprehensive income were reclassified to profit or loss services and amortised over the period of the facility to which as gains and losses from investment securities.
Impairment An exchange of debt instruments with substantially different terms The Group assessed at the end of each reporting period whether is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability there was objective evidence that a financial asset or group of and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Similarly, a substantial financial assets was impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial modification of the terms of an existing financial liability is accounted assets was impaired and impairment losses were incurred only if for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the there was objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or recognition of a new financial liability.
more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset Employee benefits a loss event and that loss event or events had an impact on the The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
assets that could be reliably estimated.
Pension obligations Trade and other receivables A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no sold in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the in one year or less, they are classified as current assets.
If not, fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits they are presented as non-current assets.
relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined interest method, less provision for impairment.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually or the counterparty.
by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Cash and cash equivalents The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents reflects by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates cash-in-hand and in-transit, deposits held at call with banks, other of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity months or less and bank overdrafts if any.
In the consolidated approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings Where defined benefit schemes have a surplus, the surplus is in current liabilities.
recognised if future economic benefits are available to the entity Trade payables in the form of a reduction in the future contributions or a right to Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that refund.
See Note 2 for the judgement made regarding the application have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due The current service cost of the defined benefit plan is recognised within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the in the income statement in employee benefit expense, except where business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year, measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.
126 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income.
The net Revenue interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable for balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan goods supplied by the Group, exclusive of local sales tax and trade assets, taking account of any changes in the defined benefit asset discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
All of revenue liability during the period as a result of contributions and benefit is attributable to the principal activities of the Group being the payments.
This cost is included in interest expense in the manufacture and sale of concrete products, clay facing bricks and income statement.
associated special shaped and fabricated clay products.
When the benefits of a defined benefit plan are changed or when Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of the plan is curtailed, the change in the present value of the defined ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, which is usually benefit obligation arising that relates to the plan amendment or on despatch of goods.
In a bill-and-hold arrangement, revenue is curtailment is recognised immediately in profit or loss on its recognised when a customer has obtained control of a product, occurrence.
Before determining the past service cost including which arises when all of the following criteria are met: a the reason curtailment gains or losses or a gain or loss on settlement, the net for the arrangement is substantive, b the product has been defined benefit obligation asset is remeasured using the current fair identified separately as belonging to the customer, c the product value of plan assets and current actuarial assumptions including is ready for delivery in accordance with the terms of the arrangement, current market interest rates and other current market prices and d the Company does not have the ability to use the product reflecting the benefits offered under the plan before the plan or sell the product to another customer.
Customer rebates Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience Provisions for rebates to customers are based upon the terms of adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged individual contracts, generally coterminous with the Groups financial or credited in other comprehensive income in the period in which year end, and are recorded in the same period as the related sales they arise.
The Group estimates the provision for customer rebates based on the terms of each agreement at the time For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions the revenue is recognised.
to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further Other income payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The Other income is attributable to rental income from properties, Group recognises contributions payable to defined contribution plans landfill and gas activity.
Other expenses represent associated in exchange for employee services in employee benefit expense.
This is not deemed to be a principal activity of the Group.
Provisions Rental income received under operating leases is recognised Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable Research and development that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: Research and development expenditure is written off as incurred, and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not except that development expenditure incurred on an individual recognised for future operating losses.
project is carried forward when its future recoverability can Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood reasonably be regarded as assured.
Any expenditure carried forward that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined is amortised in line with the expected future sales from the related by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
Research and development costs capitalised are not material.
is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to Exceptional items any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures statement, those material items of income and expense which, expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate because of the nature and or expected infrequency of the events that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision to understand better elements of financial performance in the due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
financial period, so as to assess better underlying trends in financial performance.
Further detail on exceptional items are given within The restoration provision is to fund future obligations at a number Note 5. of sites that the Group is associated with and where the Group has any constructive obligation to restore once it has fully utilised the site.
The Directors believe that the use of Alternative Performance The restructuring provision covers current and former employees Measures APMs provides useful information for shareholders.
who have ceased working on grounds of ill health and is a liability The Group uses APMs to aid comparability of its performance payable to their normal retirement date.
Other provisions relate and position between periods.
The APMs represent measures to provisions for sites used for landfill and for onerous contracts to used by management and Board to monitor performance and plan.
cover the exposure that the Group has for both current property Additionally, certain APMs are used by the Group in setting Director leases where the rent being paid is significantly higher than the and management remuneration.
Detailed descriptions of APMs used current market rents and also vacant properties.
All of these throughout these financial statements are included within Note 3. provisions are discounted on an annual basis.
Off-market rental APMs used by the Group are generally not defined under IFRSs provisions relate to leases acquired as part of business combinations.
and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported Provisions for dilapidations are recognised on a lease by lease basis by other companies.
and are based on the Groups discounted best estimate of the likely It is not intended that either adjusted measure is a substitute for, committed cash outflows.
or superior to, statutory measurements.
127 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Operating leases Taxation Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except for tax relating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on in equity.
a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or recoverable on Dividend distribution the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or Dividend distributions to Ibstock plc shareholders are recognised in substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends to tax payable in respect of previous years.
are approved in general meeting, or when paid in the case of an interim dividend.
During the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination may be Assets held for sale uncertain.
The calculation of the tax charge therefore necessarily Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale involves a degree of estimation and judgement.
The tax liabilities are only if available for immediate sale in their present condition and a based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due and tax sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year assets are recognised on the basis of probable future recoverability.
from the date of classification.
Such assets and disposal groups are This requires management to exercise judgement based on their measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less the interpretation of tax laws and the likelihood of settlement of tax costs to sell.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale or that liabilities or recoverability of tax assets.
To the extent that the final form part of a disposal group classified as held for sale are not outcome differs from the estimates made, tax adjustments may be depreciated or amortised.
required which could have a material impact on the tax charge and Share based payments profit for the year in which such a determination is made.
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts included employees as consideration for equity instruments for example in the financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not options or shares of the Group.
The fair value of the employee recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: services received in exchange for the grant of the equity instruments deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination determined by reference to the fair value of the instruments granted: that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor including any market performance conditions for example, an taxable profit or loss.
entitys share price : The amount of deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time or deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities period : and are not subject to discounting.
including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the requirement for employees to save or holding shares for A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is a specific period of time.
probable that future taxable profits will be available, against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of instruments that are expected to vest based on the Deferred tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary differences non-market vesting conditions and service conditions.
It recognises arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income arrangements, except for deferred tax liabilities where the timing of statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
In addition, the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group in some circumstances employees may provide services in advance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value is estimated in the foreseeable future.
for the purposes of recognising the expense during the year between Deferred tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary service commencement period and grant date.
differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates For the equity-settled share based payment transactions, the fair and joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the value of the share instruments granted is derived from established temporary difference will reverse in the future and there is sufficient option pricing models.
Further details on share based payments taxable profit available against which the temporary difference can are set out in Note 26. beutilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities where these have been levied by the same tax authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities within the Group where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
128 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 2.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates Exceptional items and Alternative Performance Measures The preparation of the financial statements requires management Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
where management believes it is necessary to do so to provide It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Management uses Adjusted EBITDA in its assessment of Due to the inherent uncertainty in making these critical judgements performance.
Adjusted EBITDA is the earnings before interest, and estimates, actual outcomes could be different.
taxation, depreciation and amortisation adjusted for exceptional items.
A full reconciliation is included at the foot of the Group The Group has identified the following critical accounting policies statement of comprehensive income within the financial statements.
under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are made and where actual results may differ from these estimates under The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income different assumptions and conditions, and may materially affect statement, those material items of income and expense which, financial results or the financial position reported in future periods.
because of the nature and or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders Estimates to understand better elements of financial performance in the year, Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed by management so as to facilitate comparison with future periods and to assess trends on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which in financial performance.
the estimates are revised and in any future period affected.
The areas involving significant risk resulting in a material adjustment to the Details of exceptional items are disclosed in Note 5.
The reconciliation carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial of the statutory reported results for the year ended 31 December year are as follows: 2018 to the adjusted results referred to within this Annual Report and Accounts Adjusted EBITDA is included under the consolidated Defined benefit pension schemes valuation of liabilities statement of comprehensive income and described in Note 3.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns on classes Defined benefit pension schemes surplus recognition of scheme assets, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation In accounting for defined benefit plans, management is required rates, life expectancy and other pensioner demographics.
to make judgements in relation to the application of International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee guidance IFRIC 14 The assumptions used may vary from year to year, which would and its applicability to Ibstock plc.
This judgement concerns the affect future net income and net assets.
Any differences between Groups ability to recognise an actuarial surplus notional surplus these assumptions and the actual outcome also affect future net on the UK defined benefit pension scheme, should such a surplus income and net assets.
In making these estimates and assumptions, notional surplus arise in future.
The Group has considered the management considers advice provided by external advisers, such application of this guidance, including proposed amendments to as actuaries.
These assumptions are subject to periodic review.
IFRIC 14 published as an exposure draft in June 2015.
In the prior Note 21 describes the assumptions used together with an analysis year, in continuing to apply IFRIC 14, management ceased to of the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
recognise an additional liability in respect of the minimum funding obligation following the receipt of legal advice regarding the Groups Judgements ability to access a surplus should one exist in the pension scheme in The below Judgements made by management in the process of the future.
Further detail of the Groups pension schemes is included applying the Groups accounting policies have the most significant within Note 21.
Management have continued to adopt this judgement effect on the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
in the current year and have recognised a defined benefit pension Impairment of intangible and non-current assets asset of 80,705,000.
Determining whether intangible and other non-current assets are impaired requires judgement and estimation.
The Group periodically reviews intangible and non-current assets, for possible impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in managements judgement, that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Such indicating events would include a significant planned restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology, expectations of future operating losses, or negative cash flows.
The Group did not record any impairment charges during the year ended 31 December 2018 as managements judgement, based on a rigorous assessment, was that there were no indicators of impairment.
A requirement for an impairment test also arises when a non-current asset is classified as being held for sale, at which time it must be remeasured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Managements assessment was to retain all assets held for sale at their carrying value since this is exceeded by the fair value less costs to sell.
129 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Alternative performance measures Alternative Performance Measures APMs are disclosed within the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts where management believes it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
APMs reported are for continuing operations.
Management uses APMs in its own assessment of the Groups performance and in order to plan.
Certain APMs are used in the remuneration of management and Executive Directors.
It is not intended that APMs are a substitute for, or superior to, statutory measures.
None of the APMs are outlined within IFRS and they may not be comparable with similarly titled APMs used by other companies.
Exceptional items The Group presents items as exceptional on the face of the income statement, those items of income and expense which, because of the materiality, nature and or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better elements of financial performance for the year, so as to facilitate comparison with future year and to assess trends in financial performance.
Details of all exceptional items are disclosed in Note 5.
Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is the earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation adjusted for exceptional items.
A full reconciliation is included at the foot of the Group consolidated statement of comprehensive income within the financial statements.
Adjusted EPS Adjusted EPS is the basic earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation and depreciation on fair value uplifted assets and non-cash interest net of taxation at the Groups effective tax rate.
A full reconciliation is provided in Note 12.
Net debt Net debt is defined as the sum of cash and total borrowings at the balance sheet date.
Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net debt to Adjusted EBITDA as defined above.
Return on capital employed Return on capital employed ROCE is defined as earnings before interest and taxation adjusted for exceptional items as a proportion of the average capital employed defined as net debt plus equity excluding the pension deficit surplus.
The average is calculated using the period end balance and corresponding preceding reported year end balance year end or interim.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Adjusted EBITDA 112,371 107,899 Less depreciation 18,249 14,814 Less amortisation 6,156 6,191 Adjusted earnings before taxation 87,966 86,894 Average net debt 94,411 141,896 Average equity 409,333 325,509 Average pension 75,838 44,851 Average capital employed 427,906 422,554 ROCE 20.6% 20.6% Cash conversion Cash conversion is the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA after movements in working capital less maintenance capital expenditure and share based payments, to adjusted EBITDA.
The calculation of the cash conversion ratio is set out within Table 1 of the Financial Review on page 53.
Cash flow before major capex Cash flow before major capex is a key performance indicator of cash flow prior to capital expenditure on major projects.
This represents adjusted EBITDA plus share based payment costs less cash flow on maintenance capital expenditure and adjusted for changes in working capital.
A reconciliation is provided within the Financial Review on page 53.
Adjusted free cash flow Adjusted free cash flow represents cash flow before major projects defined above less expenditure on major projects and cash outflows for taxation, net interest costs and post-employment benefits.
The calculation of adjusted free cash flow is set out within Table 1 of the Financial review.
130 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 4.
Segment reporting As explained in Note 1, during the year ended 31 December 2018, the management team considered the reportable segments to be the UK and the US.
On 23 November 2018, the Group disposed of its US Segment, the results of which have been classified as discontinued operations within the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
The trading results of the US segment up to the date of disposal are set out within Note 11.
The key Group performance measure is Adjusted EBITDA, as detailed below, which is profit before interest, tax adjusted for exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation.
Transactions between segments are carried out at arms length.
No aggregation of segments has been applied.
Year ended 31 December 2018 Continuing operations Unallocated Total 000 000 000 Continuing operations Clay revenue 293,449 293,449 Concrete revenue 97,953 97,953 Total revenue from external customers 391,402 391,402 Adjusted EBITDA 116,354 3,983 112,371 Exceptional Pension related expenses see Note 5 2,006 2,006 Release of provision for contingent consideration see Note 5 1,892 1,892 Exceptional restructuring costs see Note 5 348 348 Exceptional corporate costs see Note 5 985 985 Exceptional profit on disposal of PP&E see Note 5 9,472 9,472 EBITDA after exceptional items 125,364 4,968 120,396 Depreciation and amortisation pre fair value uplift 15,849 15,849 Incremental depreciation and amortisation following fair value uplift 8,556 8,556 Net finance costs 3,475 3,475 Profit loss before tax 97,484 4,968 92,516 Taxation 16,102 Profit for the year from continuing operations 76,414 Discontinued operations Profit for the year from discontinued operations Note 11 652 Profit for the year 77,066 Consolidated total assets 706,977 706,977 Consolidated total liabilities 258,946 258,946 Non-current assets Consolidated total intangible assets 100,587 100,587 Property, plant and equipment 365,478 365,478 Total 466,065 466,065 Non-current asset additions Continuing operations 33,378 33,378 Discontinuing operations 1,909 Total non-current asset additions 35,287 Included within the revenue of our Clay operations during the year ended 31 December 2018 were 6,603,000 of bill and hold transactions.
At 31 December 2018, inventory relating to sales of 4,294,000 remained on the Groups premises.
The unallocated segment balance includes the fair value of the Groups share based payments and associated taxes of 1.8 million, plc Board and other plc employment costs 3.7 million and legal expenses associated with the listed business 0.3 million.
These costs have been offset by the research and development taxation credits of 2.5 million.
131 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Segment reporting continued Year ended 31 December 2017 restated Continuing operations Unallocated Total 000 000 000 Continuing operations Clay revenue 265,358 265,358 Concrete revenue 97,231 97,231 Total revenue from external customers 362,589 362,589 Adjusted EBITDA 110,509 2,610 107,899 Pension closure costs see Note 5 211 211 Release of provision for contingent consideration see Note 5 1,740 1,740 EBITDA after exceptional items 112,038 2,610 109,428 Depreciation and amortisation pre fair value uplift 12,449 12,449 Incremental depreciation and amortisation following fair value uplift 8,556 8,556 Net finance costs 10,763 10,763 Profit loss before tax 80,270 2,610 77,660 Taxation 12,594 Profit for the year from continuing operations 65,066 Profit for the year from discontinued operations Note 11 8,484 Profit for the year 73,550 Total assets 638,689 638,689 Assets relating to discontinued operations 106,154 Consolidated total assets 744,843 Total liabilities 279,558 279,558 Liabilities relating to discontinued operations 44,457 Consolidated total liabilities 324,015 Non-current assets Intangible assets 105,619 105,619 Intangible assets relating to discontinued operations 10,391 Consolidated total intangible assets 116,010 Property, plant and equipment 351,338 351,338 Property, plant and equipment relating to discontinued operations 49,142 400,480 Total 456,957 516,490 Non-current asset additions Continuing operations 32,489 32,489 Discontinuing operations 4,155 Total non-current asset additions 36,644 In the prior year, the unallocated segment balance includes the fair value of the Groups share based payments and associated taxes of 1.6million, plc Board costs 1.6 million and legal expenses associated with the listed business 0.4 million.
These costs have been offset by the research and development taxation credits of 1.8 million.
Prior year figures have been restated to exclude activities of discontinued operations.
132 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 5.
Exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations 000 000 Exceptional administrative expenses: Pension related expenses Pension closure costs legal and actuarial costs 506 211 Exceptional GMP equalisation costs 1,500 2,006 211 Release of provision for contingent consideration 1,892 1,740 Exceptional Corporate costs 985 Exceptional restructuring costs 348 Total exceptional administrative expenses 1,447 1,529 Exceptional profit on disposal of property plant and equipment 9,472 Exceptional items impacting EBITDA 8,025 1,529 Exceptional finance costs acceleration of debt issue costs on September 2015 borrowings 3,100 Exceptional finance costs reversing credit related to EIR accounting of September 2015 borrowings 3,286 6,386 Exceptional items relating to continuing operations 8,025 4,857 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations 2,576 Total exceptional items 5,449 4,857 2018 Included within the current year are the following exceptional items: Exceptional administration expenses Pension related costs which arose in the current year include further residual professional advisor fees associated with the closure of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme, which took place in the year ended 31 December 2016, and costs associated with the pension data cleansing exercise currently taking place as part of the Groups pension fide-risking exercise.
Additionally, in the current year, costs relating to past service costs associated with the Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation have been classified as exceptional.
All exceptional pension costs have been assessed as exceptional due to the non-recurring nature of the event giving rise to the costs.
The release of a provision for contingent consideration of 1,892,000 arose in the current period following the finalisation of negotiations relating to outstanding contingent consideration following the Groups disposal by CRH plc in February 2015.
This exceptional credit has been classified as exceptional due to the original categorisation of the associated provision creation in order to ensure consistency in accounting.
Exceptional corporate costs relate to the duplication of Chief Executive Officers expenses in the current year, which has been categorised as exceptional on the basis of the non-recurring nature of the event giving rise to the costs.
Exceptional restructuring costs were incurred following the Groups decision to combine the Groups concrete businesses under one management team, and have been treated as exceptional due to the non-recurring nature of the event giving rise to the costs.
Exceptional profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment The exceptional profit on disposal relates to the sale of the Groups surplus properties near Bristol and Keele, which occurred in the current year.
The profits on disposal have been categorised as exceptional due to the materiality of the amounts recorded.
Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations of 2,576,000 relate to the loss on disposal of the Groups US segment in the current year, as set out in Note 11 of the financial statements.
The amount has been categorised as exceptional due to the material and non-recurring nature of the disposal.
2017 Included within the prior year are the following exceptional items: Exceptional administration expenses Pension closure costs which arose in the year ended 31 December 2017 represent residual professional advisor fees associated with the closure of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme, which took place in the year ended 31 December 2016.
The release of a provision for contingent consideration of 1,740,000 arose in the prior period following the disposal of all interests in the Group by Bain Capital LLC see Note 30.
Exceptional finance costs Exceptional finance costs arising in the prior period resulted from the refinancing of the Groups loan in March 2017, representing 3,286,000 of accelerated loan deal fees and 3,100,000 of interest charges as a result of the effective interest method of accounting.
Further detail of the Groups refinancing is provided in Note 19.
133 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Exceptional items continued Tax on exceptional items 2018 The release of the provision for contingent consideration is non-taxable.
The pension related expenses, corporate and restructuring costs are tax deductible.
The disposal of surplus properties during the current year give rise to capital gains which are taxable.
The loss on disposal of the Groups US segment is tax exempt.
2017 The pension closure costs of 211,000 and the exceptional finance costs of 6,386,000 were tax deductible in full in the prior year whilst the 1,740,000 release of contingent consideration was not taxable.
Operating profit Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations 2018 2018 2017 2017 Operating profit includes the effect of crediting charging : 000 000 000 000 Continuing operations Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 3,825 4,664 2,793 4,701 Raw material and consumables used 60,759 22,961 56,132 24,474 Employee benefit expense Note 7 73,932 24,346 68,970 27,800 Depreciation Note 14 18,249 4,310 14,814 5,045 Other production costs 87,879 16,140 70,547 17,871 Total cost of sales 236,994 63,092 213,256 70,489 Transportation expenses 39,749 1,482 36,872 1,472 Other employee benefit expenses Note 7 26,501 9,692 20,311 11,005 Amortisation Note 13 6,156 250 6,191 285 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment Note 14 1,735 5 142 2 Advertising costs 1,360 603 1,360 819 Operating lease payments 6,837 457 6,720 443 Operating lease income 752 631 Research and development costs 12 76 95 131 Exceptional administrative expenses Note 5 1,447 1,529 Exceptional profit on disposal of property plant and equipment Note 5 9,472 Auditors remuneration During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of Parent Company and consolidated financial statements: 100 94 Fees payable to Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 340 357 Total audit fees 440 451 Audit-related assurance services 55 56 Total non-audit fees 55 56 134 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 7.
Employees and Directors Staff costs for the Group during the period: Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations 2018 2018 2017 2017 000 000 000 000 Wages and salaries 83,268 27,101 74,133 29,910 Social security costs 7,729 5,926 7,394 8,046 Pensions costs defined benefit plans Note 21 2,764 1,887 Pensions costs defined contribution plans Note 21 5,144 766 4,588 849 Share based payments Note 26 1,773 1,279 100,678 33,793 89,281 38,805 US post-employment benefits of 480,000 in the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: 549,000 are accounted for as a defined contribution scheme and costs are included in the pension costs defined contribution category, above.
Average monthly number of people including Executive Directors employed: Continuing Discontinued Year ended Continuing Discontinued Year ended operations operations 31 December operations operations 31 December 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Sales staff 274 74 348 232 81 313 Administrative staff 198 17 215 205 17 222 Production staff 1,668 437 2,105 1,615 477 2,092 2,140 528 2,668 2,052 575 2,627 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Key management compensation 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 2,523 3,363 Post-employment benefits 42 77 Share based payment 583 285 3,148 3,725 Key management personnel has been defined as the Board of Ibstock plc, together with the Groups Executive Leadership Team, which was formed during the current year.
In the prior year, the key management personnel were defined as the Board of Ibstock plc, together with the Directors of the Groups largest subsidiary.
Details of remuneration for Ibstock plc Directors are presented in the Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 107.
The aggregate remuneration for the purposes of the financial statements is 1,816,000 year ended 31 December 2017: 1,848,000.
135 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Finance costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Interest costs: Interest payable on March 2017 revolving credit facility 4,282 3,057 Interest payable on September 2015 bank borrowings 1,601 Foreign exchange translations 392 Total interest payable on bank borrowings 4,674 4,658 Other interest payable 63 64 Interest expense on financial liabilities at amortised cost 4,737 4,722 Net interest costs arising on the UK pension scheme Note 21 308 Unwinding of discount on provisions changes in discount rate Note 20 79 Exceptional finance cost credit Note 5 6,386 Non-cash interest payable 6,773 Total finance costs relating to continuing operations 4,737 11,495 Finance costs relating to discontinued operations 61 604 4,798 12,099 2018 Included within the current year are finance costs associated with the Groups Revolving Credit Facility see Note 19, which incurred interest at a 1.25%-1.50% margin during the course of 2018.
2017 Included within the prior year are the following Finance costs: A new bank borrowing facility was entered into in March 2017, as disclosed in Note 19, replacing the borrowings in place at 1 January 2017.
This financial instrument was classified as other financial liabilities and held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Accelerated deal fee costs of 3,100,000 associated with the extinguishment of the facilities entered into in September 2015 borrowings have been treated as exceptional in the year ended 31 December 2017.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, a cost of 3,286,000 was included within interest payable reversing the prior year non-cash credit which arose as a result of the lower interest rate payable.
In both the current and prior years, borrowing costs related to capital expenditure are insignificant and have not been capitalised.
Finance income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Interest income: Foreign currency gains 732 Net interest income arising on the UK pension scheme Note 21 1,202 Net unwinding of discount on provisions changes in discount rate Note 20 40 Other interest receivable 20 Total finance income relating to continuing operations 1,262 732 Finance income relating to discontinued operations 61 1,323 732 136 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 10.
Taxation Analysis of income tax charge Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 '000 '000 Continuing operations Current tax on profits for the period 14,634 9,911 Adjustments in respect of prior period 360 324 Total current tax 14,274 9,587 Deferred tax on profits for the period 3,452 4,974 Impact of change in tax rate 1,571 29 Adjustments in respect of prior period 53 1,938 Total deferred tax 1,828 3,007 Total continuing operations 16,102 12,594 Discontinued operations 1,149 2,718 17,251 9,876 Income tax recognised within the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 '000 '000 Tax adjustments arising on the UK pension scheme assets and liabilities: Deferred tax charge 5,357 12,857 Income tax recognised within the consolidated statement of changes in equity Year ended 31 Year ended December 31 December 2018 2017 '000 '000 Deferred tax charge credit on share based payments 184 354 The tax expense for the period differs from the applicable standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19% for the year ended 31December 2018 2017: 19.25%.
The differences are explained below: Year ended 31 Year ended December 31 December 2018 2017 '000 Percentage '000 Percentage Profit before tax from continuing operations 92,516 100% 77,660 100% Profit before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK 17,578 19.00% 14,950 19.25% Effects of: Expenses not deductible 868 0.94% 270 0.35% Changes in estimates relating to prior periods IPO transaction costs 2,113 2.72% Changes in estimates relating to prior periods 413 0.45% 149 0.19% Total tax charge before deferred tax rate change and exceptional items 18,033 19.49% 12,958 16.69% Non-taxable release of contingent consideration 359 0.39% 335 0.43% Rate change on deferred tax provision pension scheme surplus 1,469 1.59% Rate change on deferred tax provision other 103 0.11% 29 0.04% Total taxation expense from continuing operations 16,102 17.40% 12,594 16.22% 137 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Taxation continued The loss on disposal of the Groups US segment disclosed in Note 5 is tax exempt.
There are no income tax consequences for the Company in respect of dividends declared prior to the date of authorisation of these financial statements and for which a liability has not been recognised.
The reduction in the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK from 20% to 19% came into force with effect from 1 April 2017.
The further rate reduction to 17% from 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted in Finance Act 2016 on 6 September 2016.
The impact of these tax rate changes are reflected in these financial statements.
The Group expects its effective tax rate in the future to be affected by the outcome of any future tax audits as well as the impact of changes in tax law.
Discontinued operations On 23 November 2018, the Group sold its entire US segment see Note 4.
Management committed to a plan to sell this segment in 2H 2018 following a strategic decision to place greater focus on the Groups key geography of the UK.
The US segment was not previously classified as held-for-sale or as a discontinued operation.
The comparative consolidated income statement has been restated to show the discontinued operation separately from continuing operations.
The results of the continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been amended from those disclosed in the prior year to reflect the full net interest costs and absence of management fee between the UK and US segments at that time.
Results of discontinued operations Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Revenue 79,690 88,994 Cost of sales 63,092 70,489 Gross profit 16,598 18,505 Distribution costs 1,482 1,472 Administrative expenses 10,744 10,665 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 2 Operating profit 4,377 6,370 Net finance cost 604 Profit before taxation 4,377 5,766 Income tax 1,149 2,718 Trading profit after taxation 3,228 8,484 Loss on sale of discontinued operation 2,576 Income tax on sale of discontinued operation Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 652 8,484 Basic earnings per share pence 0.2 2.1 Diluted earnings per share pence 0.2 2.1 The profit from discontinued operations of 652,000 2017: profit of 8,484,000 is attributable entirely to the owners of the Company.
138 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information B.
Cash flows from used in discontinued operations Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Net cash used in from operating activities 1,419 6,008 Net cash used in investing activities 73,937 4,321 Net cash from used in financing activities 74,251 9,214 Net cash flows from the year 1,733 7,527 C. Effect of disposal on the financial position of the Group 23 November 2018 000 Intangible assets 10,703 Property, plant and equipment 49,353 Deferred tax assets 1,419 Inventories 40,101 Trade and other receivables 13,326 Current tax recoverable 94 Trade and other payables 8,439 Provisions 1,090 Post-employment benefit obligations 9,010 Deferred tax liabilities 6,827 Book value of net assets sold 89,630 Disposal proceeds 79,208 Foreign currency reserve 11,347 Transaction costs 3,501 Loss on disposal 2,576 12.
Earnings per share The basic earnings per share figures are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to the parent shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The diluted earnings per share figures allow for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the weighted average number of options outstanding during the year.
Where the average share price for the year is lower than the option price the options become anti-dilutive and are excluded from the calculation.
The number of shares used for the earnings per share calculation are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000s 000s Basic weighted average number of shares 406,448 406,361 Effect of share incentive awards and options 3,021 2,321 Diluted weighted average number of shares 409,469 408,682 The calculation of adjusted earnings per share is a key measurement of management that is not defined by IFRS.
The adjusted EPS measures should not be viewed in isolation, but rather treated as supplementary information.
Adjusted earnings per share figures are calculated as the Basic earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation and depreciation on fair value uplifted assets and non-cash interest expenses.
Adjustments are made net of the associated taxation impact at the Effective Tax Rate.
139 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Earnings per share continued A reconciliation of the statutory profit to that used in the adjusted earnings per share calculations is as follows: Continuing Discontinued Total 2018 Continuing Discontinued Total 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 Profit for the period attributable to the parent shareholders 76,414 652 77,066 65,066 8,484 73,550 Add back exceptional items 8,025 2,576 5,449 4,857 4,857 Add back tax expense credit on exceptional items 1,396 399 997 575 575 Add fair value adjustments 8,556 606 9,162 8,556 1,058 9,614 Less tax credit on fair value adjustments 1,489 187 1,676 1,386 248 1,138 Less net non-cash interest 301 61 362 387 516 903 Add back tax expense on non-cash interest 52 14 66 63 44 107 Adjusted profit for the period attributable to the parent shareholders 76,603 3,201 79,804 76,842 10,262 87,104 Continuing Discontinued Total 2018 Continuing Discontinued Total 2017 pence pence pence pence pence pence Basic EPS on profit for the year 18.8 0.2 19.0 16.0 2.1 18.1 Diluted EPS on profit for the year 18.6 0.2 18.8 15.9 2.1 18.0 Adjusted basic EPS on profit for the year 18.8 0.8 19.6 18.9 2.5 21.4 Adjusted diluted EPS on profit for the year 18.7 0.8 19.5 18.8 2.5 21.3 13.
140 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The remaining amortisation period of customers relationships is seven to 17 years.
At 31 December 2018, the remaining amortisation period of brands is outlined below: Net Book Value at Remaining 31 December amortisation 2018 period Brands '000 years Ibstock Brick 29,545 46.20 Forticrete 493 6.20 Supreme 2,234 11.20 32,272 14.
There are no assets which are used as security.
Management reviews the business performance based on segments reported in Note 4.
In the current year, impairment tests have not been conducted as management believes that there is no indication of impairment of an asset.
141 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Raw materials 21,649 22,824 Work in progress 3,633 3,082 Finished goods 43,144 65,212 68,426 91,118 The replacement cost of inventories is not considered to be materially different from the above values.
At 31 December 2018, a provision of 535,000 31 December 2017: 2,088,000 is held against the inventory balance.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Trade receivables 49,226 49,006 Provision for impairment of receivables 289 581 Net trade receivables 48,937 48,425 Prepayments and accrued income 4,227 3,419 Other receivables 2,569 1,572 Total trade and other receivables 55,733 53,416 17.
Assets held for sale 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Assets classified as held for sale as of the beginning of the period 4,853 1,203 Additions 3,650 Disposals 4,853 Assets classified as held for sale as of the end of the period 4,853 In the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group successfully disposed of its surplus properties in Stourbridge, Severn Valley, Keele and Kingsley, which had been classified as assets held for sale at 31 December 2017.
As of 31 December 2017, the Groups properties in Stourbridge, Severn Valley, Keele and Kingsley were categorised as held for sale.
The assets were all within the UK Segment.
The fair value of the asset less costs to sell is assessed as above the assets carrying value and there are no liabilities directly associated with the assets categorised as held for sale.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Trade payables 52,309 42,716 Contingent consideration 2,260 Other tax and social security payable 10,372 10,203 Accruals and other payables 29,766 30,163 92,447 85,342 There are no material differences between the fair values and book values stated above.
Of the amount included in accruals and other payables above are other creditors due to unwind in more than one year of 777,000 31 December 2017: 523,000.
Contingent consideration in the prior period of 2,260,000 related to potential future obligations for payments to the vendor of the acquisition of the trading businesses completed in February 2015.
As part of the Tax deed within the Share sale agreement SSA, the Group was committed to make a payment to the vendor of half of any tax relief, over a contracted amount, received by the acquired business as a result of the Groups one-off pension payment.
The amount was payable to the vendor during the period whist the acquired entities remained under ownership of the original purchaser greater than 20%.
The fair value of the future obligation was estimated at 4,000,000, with a range being nil to 4,000,000.
142 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information During the year ended 31 December 2017, the original purchaser ceased to hold any shares within the acquired entities see Note 29 for details.
Consequently, an amount of 1,740,000 was released from the amount originally provided as contingent consideration.
The balance as at 31 December 2017 was subsequently released during the current year following the finalisation of negotiations with the vendor.
This amount is recognised as an exceptional credit within the Group income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Borrowings 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Current Revolving credit facility 548 551 548 551 Non-current Revolving credit facility 83,882 147,980 83,882 147,980 Total borrowings 84,430 148,531 As at 31 December 2018: The Group held a Revolving Credit Facility RCF for 213.5 million, which reduced from 250 million at the prior year end following the withdrawal of US Fifth Third Bank following the Groups disposal of its US operations in November 2018.
The facility has no fixed repayment terms during its term and the Group must comply with covenant requirements relating to interest cover 4x and leverage 3x and report to the banks on a six-monthly basis.
The RCF attracts interest of between 1% and 2.25% plus LIBOR depending upon the leverage ratio.
During the year, amounts between 86 million and 180 million have been drawn on facility.
As at 31 December 2017: In March 2017, the Group entered into a new 250 million Revolving Credit Facility RCF.
The facility has no fixed repayment terms during its five-year term.
The Group must comply with covenant requirements relating to interest cover 4x and leverage 3x and report to the banks on a six-monthly basis.
During the year, amounts between 150 million and 180 million have been drawn on facility.
The Group has an overdraft facility of 10 million as part of the Groups cash pooling arrangements.
The carrying value of financial liabilities have been assessed as materially in line with their fair values.
No security is currently provided over the Groups borrowings.
Provisions continued The current expected timeframe of provision requirements is as follows: 1 2 Restoration Dilapidations '000 '000 Within one year 30 737 Between two to five years 167 270 Between five to 10 years 148 2,167 Between 10 to 20 years 1,666 Over 20 years 2,997 80 3,342 4,920 1 The restoration provision comprises obligations governing site remediation and improvement costs to be incurred in compliance with applicable environmental regulations together with constructive obligations stemming from established practice once the sites have been fully utilised.
The key estimates associated with calculating the provision relate to the cost per acre to perform the necessary remediation work as at the reporting date together with determining the year of retirement.
Estimates are updated annually based on the total estimated available reserves and the expected extraction rates.
Whilst a significant element of the total provision will reverse in the medium-term two to 10 years, the majority of the legal and constructive obligations applicable to mineral-bearing land will unwind over a 30-year timeframe.
In discounting the related obligations, expected future cash outflows have been determined with due regard to extraction status and anticipated remaining life.
An amount of 731,000 relating to discontinued operations was credited to the income statement in the current year as an exceptional item.
2 Provisions for dilapidations, which arose as contingent liabilities recognised upon the business combination in the prior year, are recognised on a lease by lease basis and are based on the Groups best estimate of the likely contractual cash outflows, which are estimated to occur over the lease term.
3 Other provisions relate to provisions for the Restructuring, Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SERP, product warranties, landfill and onerous contracts.
The restructuring provision covers current and former employees who have ceased working on grounds of ill health and is a liability payable to their normal retirement date.
The SERP is a defined contribution retirement plan in respect of basic salary entitlements for Executive Directors.
The product warranties are based on the estimate of the cost of fulfilling customer warranty claims.
The estimate is derived principally from historical data appropriately adjusted for specific risk factors.
Under the Groups standard sales terms, the Group repairs or replaces items that fail to perform satisfactorily for one year from the date of delivery to the customer.
It is expected that most of this expenditure will be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date.
The landfill provision relates to the restoration of the associated sites and environmental remediation required by legislation.
The onerous contract provision provides cover for the exposure that the Group has for both current property leases where the rent being paid is significantly higher than the current market rents and vacant properties at acquisition.
Overall these provisions are not deemed material.
Post-employment benefit obligations a Defined Benefit plan Analysis of movements in the net obligation during the year: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Funded plan at 31 December Opening balance 46,064 28,685 Charge within labour costs and operating profit 2,453 1,887 Interest income expense 1,202 308 Remeasurement gain loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 28,892 54,728 Pension scheme surplus restriction recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 14,223 Contributions 7,000 7,993 Carried forward at 31 December 80,705 46,064 The Group participates in the Ibstock Pension Scheme the Scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK.
The Scheme has four participating employers Ibstock Brick Limited, Forticrete Limited, Anderton Concrete Products Limited, Figgs Bidco Limited from 26February 2015 and Tyrone Brick Limited up to 26 February 2015.
The Scheme was funded by payment of contributions to a separate trustee administered fund.
The scheme is a revalued earnings plan and provides benefits to its members based on their length of membership in the scheme and their average salary over that period.
Following consultation with members, accounting for the schemes closure to future accrual occurred in the year ended 31 December 2016.
As a result, benefits were reassessed as active members were transferred to deferred membership.
The Scheme is administered by trustees who employ independent fund managers for the investment of the pension scheme assets.
These assets are kept entirely separate from those of the Group.
Total annual contributions to the Scheme are based on independent actuarial advice, and are gauged to fund future pension liabilities in respect of service up to the balance sheet date.
The Scheme is subject to an independent actuarial valuation at least every three years using the projected unit method.
The valuation used as at 31 December 2018 has been based on the results of the 30 November 2017 valuation, as updated for changes in demographic assumptions, as appropriate.
144 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information On 26 October 2018, the High Court ruled that pensions provided to members who had contracted out of the additional state pension via their scheme must be recalculated to ensure payments reflect the equalisation of state pension ages in the 1990s.
GMP equalisation will increase benefits for some members.
This has increased liabilities by around 1.5 million.
The increase has been allowed for as a past service cost in the expense recognised in the income statement for the year ending 31 December 2018.
Through its defined benefit pension plan, the Group is exposed to a number of risks that are inherent in such plans and arrangements.
There are, however, no unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific risks, and no significant concentrations of risk.
The risks can be summarised as follows: The Scheme holds return-enhancing assets equities and risk-reducing assets cash flow-driven and liability-driven investments.
Long-term returns from return-enhancing assets are expected to exceed the returns from risk-reducing assets, although returns and capital values may demonstrate higher volatility.
The return-enhancing assets are not well correlated with movement of the liabilities.
As such the deficit may increase as a result of asset volatility.
The current allocation is 25% return enhancing 75% risk-reducing assets and the Trustees long-term target is to reach an allocation of 10% return-enhancing 90% risk-reducing assets: risk of volatility in inflation rates as the majority of benefits are linked to inflation and so increases in inflation will lead to higher liabilities although in most cases there are caps in place which protect against extreme inflation.
The Schemes inflation risk is further mitigated by the asset holdings in the cash flow-driven and liability driven investments: and longevity risk Increases in life expectancy will increase the period over which benefits are expected to be payable, which increases the Schemes liabilities.
The Company and Trustees intend to fide-risk the Schemes investment strategy by moving towards a position that is predominantly liability matching in nature based on the Trustees long-term funding target.
This involves an Asset Liability Management ALM framework that has been developed to achieve a holding in long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the Scheme.
Within this framework the ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in risk-reducing assets such as the cash flow-driven and liabilitydriven investments.
The Company and Trustees actively monitor the investment strategy to ensure that the expected cash flows arising from the pension obligations are sufficiently met.
Balance sheet assets obligations : 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Equities 137,449 169,780 Bonds 223,636 Properties 25,057 Liability driven investment 194,049 219,109 Bespoke cash flow driven investment 238,450 Insured pensioners 204 Cash 4,274 21,846 Total market value of assets 574,426 659,428 Present value of scheme liabilities 493,721 613,364 Net scheme asset 80,705 46,064 Other pension commitments Note 21 b 8,735 Net post-employment benefit surplus 80,705 37,329 All equities and bonds have a quoted market price in an active market.
Properties and cash and cash equivalents are unquoted.
Liability Driven Investments LDI are funds constructed to reduce the risk within the scheme.
They help to mitigate against movements in inflation or interest rates by moving in a similar way to the liabilities following market movements.
The funds are constructed from gilts and swaps.
The Schemes LDI fund is managed by BMO, is predominantly unquoted and is set up as a bespoke pooled fund with valuations undertaken on a regular basis with rebalancing occurring on a quarterly basis to reflect the movements in the schemes other assets and cash flows.
To reduce volatility risk, a LDI strategy forms part of the Trustees management of the scheme assets, comprising UK gilts, repurchase agreements and derivatives.
The liabilities comprised repurchase agreements, which are entered into to better offset the schemes exposure to interest and inflation rate, whilst remaining invested in assets of a similar risk profile.
Additionally, in the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group restructured its bond holdings and entered into a Bespoke cash flow driven investment held with M&G Investment managers in order to provide a flow of income to the Scheme and meet the liability requirements.
This investment is structured in such a was as to satisfy the requirements of the Ibstock Scheme member population.
145 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued The amounts recognised in the income statement are: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Current service cost 895 Exceptional past service cost Note 5 1,500 Administrative expenses 758 781 Exceptional administrative expenses Note 5 506 211 Multi employer scheme 235 267 Defined contribution scheme costs 5,675 5,170 Charge within labour costs and operating profit 8,674 7,324 Interest income expense 1,202 308 Total charge to the income statement 7,472 7,632 Remeasurements recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Remeasurement loss gain on defined benefit scheme assets 38,493 53,553 Remeasurement gain loss from changes in financial assumptions 35,666 24,231 Remeasurement gain from changes in demographic assumptions 23,628 12,315 Experience gains 8,091 13,091 Other comprehensive income 28,892 54,728 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation at beginning of period 613,364 698,033 Current service cost 895 Past service cost 1,500 Interest cost 14,200 18,120 Contributions by scheme participants 11 Experience gains 8,091 13,091 Benefits paid 67,958 102,502 Remeasurement gain loss arising from change in financial assumptions 35,666 24,231 Remeasurement gain arising from change in demographic assumptions 23,628 12,315 Insurance premium for risk benefits 18 Present value of defined benefit obligations carried forward at 31 December 493,721 613,364 146 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Analysis of movements in the asset ceiling restriction within Other comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Asset ceiling restriction at beginning of the year 14,223 Interest cost on the adjustment Change in adjustment excluding interest 14,223 Asset ceiling restriction at end of the year This scheme has a surplus that is recognised on the basis that the directors believe following the receipt of legal advice, that future economic benefits would be ultimately available to the Group in the form of a reduction in the future contributions or a cash refund.
See Note 2 for further details of the judgement taken.
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Fair value of pension scheme assets at beginning of the year 659,428 683,571 Interest income 15,402 17,812 Remeasurement loss gain on pension scheme assets 38,493 53,553 Employer contributions 7,000 7,993 Contributions by scheme participants 11 Benefits paid 67,958 102,502 Administrative expenses 953 992 Insurance premium for risk benefits 18 Fair value of pension scheme assets carried forward 574,426 659,428 Plan Assets are comprised as follows: 31 December 2018 Quoted Unquoted Total 000 000 000 % Equity instruments 137,449 137,449 UK equities 18,793 18,793 3% Overseas equities 90,976 90,976 16% Emerging market equities 27,680 27,680 5% Debt instruments UK corporate bonds 0% Index linked gilts 0% Property Property 0% Liability driven investment 194,049 194,049 34% Bespoke cash flow driven investment 25,699 212,751 238,450 41% Insured pensioners 204 204 0% Cash and net current assets 4,274 4,274 1% Total 163,148 411,278 574,426 100% 147 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued 31 December 2017 Quoted Unquoted Total 000 000 000 % Equity instruments 169,780 169,780 UK equities 23,408 23,408 3% Overseas equities 115,787 115,787 18% Emerging market equities 30,585 30,585 5% Debt instruments 223,636 223,636 UK corporate bonds 223,636 223,636 34% Index linked gilts 0% Property Property 25,057 25,057 4% Liability driven investment 219,109 219,109 33% Cash and net current assets 21,846 21,846 3% Total 440,319 219,109 659,428 100% The Group contributed 16.0% of pensionable salaries to the Scheme during the prior year reported up to the date at which active members ceased to accrue benefits 1 February 2017.
Based on the previous valuation as at November 2014, a payment schedule was agreed with the Trustees of the Ibstock Pension Scheme so that the schemes deficit can be eliminated.
This included the Group contributing 16% of pensionable salaries to the scheme in the year ended 31 December 2016 and up to 1 February 2017, which is no longer required following the closure of the scheme to future accrual.
Additionally, a further 7.0 million per annum is payable under the Schedule of contributions until May2021, which was paid in the year ended 31 December 2018.
This schedule of contributions is revised at the time of each funding valuation and a new contribution level will apply in 2019 following completion of the funding valuation as at 30 November 2017.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 18 years 2017: 20 years.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, other costs related to the closure of the scheme to future accrual of 506,000 2017: 211,000 were incurred and classified as exceptional see Note 5.
The principal assumptions used by the actuary in his calculations were: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Per annum Per annum Discount rate 2.80% 2.45% RPI inflation 3.10% 3.15% CPI inflation 2.10% 2.15% Rate of increase in salary n a n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.65% 3.65% Commutation factors 15.52 15.52 Mortality assumptions: life expectancy from age 65 For a male currently aged 65 21.70 years 22.60 years For a female currently aged 65 23.90 years 25.00 years For a male currently aged 40 23.60 years 24.50 years For a female currently aged 40 25.90 years 26.90 years The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected changes to life expectancy.
The life expectancies quoted for members currently aged 40 assume that they retire at age 65 i. e. 25 years after the balance sheet date.
The principal financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
The obligations are primarily in Sterling and have a maturity of some 20 years.
If the real discount rate increased decreased by 0.25%, the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2018 would decrease increase by approximately 5%.
148 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The impact on the defined benefit obligation to changes in the financial and demographic assumptions is shown below: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2018 493,721 613,364 0.25% increase in discount rate 20,679 28,302 0.25% decrease in discount rate 22,070 30,348 0.25% increase in salary growth rate 0.25% decrease in salary growth rate 0.25% increase in pension growth rate 12,628 19,725 0.25% decrease in pension growth rate 12,137 18,696 0.25% increase in inflation rate 12,222 17,897 0.25% decrease in inflation rate 11,420 19,551 One year increase in life expectancy 21,520 28,864 One year decrease in life expectancy 21,320 28,545 b Multi-employer scheme The Group participated in two multi-employer defined benefit pension schemes, being Aluminium, Brick and Glass Workers International Union AB&GW and National Integrated Group Pension Plan NIGPP, which are both held in the United States.
As the Group was unable to identify its share of the assets and liabilities for these schemes as insufficient information is available on which to calculate this split as confirmed with the schemes actuaries, they were accounted for on a defined contribution basis.
The charge for the year to December 2018 is 235,000 year ended 31 December 2017: 282,000.
The Group was not liable for any other contributing entities within either scheme.
For exit from the schemes by the Group at the most recent actuarial valuation, it was estimated that at 31 December 2017 the withdrawal liability for the schemes equalled 15,527,000 and 2,171,000 for the AB&GW and NIGPP, respectively, although management had no plans on withdrawing from either scheme.
Following disposal of the US segment on 23 November 2018, the Group has no ongoing liability in relation to the AB&GW or NIPP schemes as at 31 December 2018.
In total, the AB&GW plan had a deficit as at 31 December 2017 of 18,189,000.
The contribution rates agreed to be paid by the Group therefore included an element of rehabilitation funding with respect to the total plan deficit.
For this scheme, the arrangements gave rise to a present obligation and as such a liability was been recognised of 8,735,000 at 31 December 2017 for future committed contribution amounts with an associated recognised deferred tax asset of 2,292,000.
This was calculated by discounting the future cash flows, which accrete at 7%per annum in line with the rehabilitation funding plan as set by the scheme Trustees, at a rate commensurate with the time value of money using a 20-year US treasury rate 2.58% given the duration of the rehabilitation funding plan runs to 2034.
This calculation was based on managements estimated number of employees in future years.
Based on the contribution rates and total withdrawal liability for the NIGPP plan, management determined any present obligation arising from the plan was immaterial.
Following disposal of the US segment on 23November 2018, the Group has no ongoing liability in relation to the AB&GW or NIPP schemes as at 31 December 2018. c Defined contribution plan The Group operates defined contribution schemes under the Ibstock pension scheme, the Supreme Concrete Limited pension scheme, the Anderton Concrete pension scheme and the Supreme Concrete Group Personal Plan.
Contributions by both employees and Group companies are held in externally invested,  funds.
The Group contributes a specified percentage of earnings for members of the above defined contribution schemes, and thereafter has no further obligations in relation to the scheme.
The total cost charged to income in relation to the defined contribution scheme in the year was 5,675,000 year ended 31 December 2017: 5,170,000.
149 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Deferred tax assets liabilities The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 '000 '000 Net deferred tax liability at beginning of period 65,290 55,445 Differences on exchange 282 710 Tax charged credited to the consolidated income statement 1,631 1,948 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 5,357 12,857 Tax charged credited directly to equity 184 354 Discontinued operations 5,408 Net deferred tax liability at period end 67,336 65,290 Presented in the consolidated balance sheet after offset as: Deferred tax assets 1,412 Deferred tax liabilities 67,336 66,702 67,336 65,290 Deferred tax assets and liabilities before offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction are as follows: Deferred tax assets 2,474 11,689 Deferred tax liabilities 69,810 76,979 Net deferred tax liability at period end 67,336 65,290 Deferred tax assets expected to unwind within one year 27 3,192 Deferred tax assets expected to unwind after one year 2,447 8,497 2,474 11,689 Deferred tax liabilities expected to unwind within one year 1,626 2,024 Deferred tax liabilities expected to unwind after one year 68,184 74,955 69,810 76,979 150 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The movement in the net deferred tax liability analysed by each type of temporary difference is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2018 Net balance at Differences Recognised Recognised Deferred 1 January on in income Recognised directly in Discontinued Deferred tax Deferred tax assets 2018 exchange statement in OCI equity operations Net tax assets liabilities liabilities '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 Intangible fixed assets 20,898 144 1,225 2,754 17,063 17,063 Tangible fixed assets 45,030 407 15 7,759 37,663 47 37,710 Land revaluation 822 46 4 872 Rolled over and held over capital gains 1,332 15 1,317 1,317 Employee pension liabilities 6,460 125 347 5,357 2,375 13,720 13,720 Pension contribution spreading 3,015 3,015 Provisions 3,260 76 266 1,470 1,600 1,600 Share incentive plans 911 100 184 827 827 Tax losses 2,136 116 55 2,197 Other temporary differences 70 2 7 65 Deferred tax assets liabilities before offsetting 65,290 282 1,631 5,357 184 5,408 67,336 2,474 69,810 Offset of balances within the same tax jurisdiction 2,474 2,474 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 67,336 Year ended 31 December 2017 As at 31 December 2017 Net balance at Differences Recognised Recognised Deferred 1 January on in income Recognised directly in Discontinued Deferred tax 2017 exchange statement in OCI equity operations Net tax assets liabilities Deferred tax assets liabilities '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 Intangible fixed assets 23,925 314 2,713 20,898 20,898 Tangible fixed assets 50,364 885 4,449 45,030 75 45,105 Land revaluation 1,360 96 442 822 822 Rolled over and held over capital gains 1,836 504 1,332 1,332 Employee pension liabilities, net of reimbursement asset 9,076 265 2,414 12,857 6,460 2,292 8,752 Pension contribution spreading 6,069 3,054 3,015 3,015 Provisions 4,630 140 1,230 3,260 3,260 Share incentive plans 319 238 354 911 911 Tax losses 2,051 189 274 2,136 2,136 Other temporary differences 105 9 26 70 70 Deferred tax assets liabilities before offsetting 55,445 710 1,948 12,857 354 65,290 11,689 76,979 Offset of balances within the same tax jurisdiction 10,277 10,277 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 1,412 66,702 There are no unrecognised deferred tax assets or liabilities as at 31 December 2018 or the prior period-end.
151 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Financial instruments risk management Financial assets Financial assets at amortised Loans and cost receivables 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Trade and other receivables Note 16 51,506 50,415 Cash and cash equivalents 36,048 31,490 Total 87,554 81,905 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised Loans and cost payables 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Trade and other payables Note 18 82,075 75,139 Borrowings Note 19 84,430 148,531 Total 166,505 223,670 All financial assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost.
Credit Risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, credit sales and deposits with banks and is managed on a Group basis.
This risk arises from transactions with banks, such as those involving cash and cash equivalents and deposits.
To reduce the credit risk, the Group has concentrated its main activities with a Group of banks that have strong, independently verified credit ratings.
For each bank, individual risk limits are set based on its financial position, credit ratings, past experience and other factors.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
The Group has significant sales contracts with a number of blue-chip companies and accordingly the Directors believe there is a limited exposure to credit risk, but this is actively monitored at the operational company Board level.
The Groups policy on credit risk requires appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The Group applies the simplified approach to providing for expected credit losses prescribed by IFRS 9, which permits the use of the lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.
The loss allowance provision as at 31 December 2018 is determined as follows: the expected credit losses below also incorporate forward looking information.
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables from date of past due but not considered to be impaired is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Not past due 33,607 33,222 Less than one month past due 13,269 12,877 One to six months past due 2,048 2,167 Six to 12 months past due 215 More than 12 months past due 13 56 48,937 48,425 152 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Other receivables are due to be received within the next 12 months.
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables from date of past due determined to be impaired is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Less than one month past due 1 One to six months past due 89 374 Six to 12 months past due 93 137 More than 12 months past due 106 70 289 581 Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Opening balance 581 613 Charged to the income statement 227 66 Utilised 1 33 Released 52 46 Exchange movements 14 19 Closing impairment provision 289 581 The gross carrying amount of trade receivables, reflecting the maximum exposure to credit risk, is 49,226,000 2017: 49,006,000.
In the prior year, the impairment of trade receivables was assessed based on the incurred loss model.
Individual receivables which were known to be uncollectible were written off by reducing the carrying amount directly.
The other receivables were assessed collectively, to determine whether there was objective evidence that an impairment had been incurred but not yet identified.
For these receivables, the estimated impairment losses were recognised in a separate provision for impairment.
The Group considered that there was evidence of impairment if any of the following indicators were present: Significant financial difficulties of the debtor: Probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation: and default or delinquency in payments more than 30 days overdue.
Other financial assets at amortised cost are insignificant and the associated credit risk is considered immaterial.
Market Risk Market risk is defined as the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk, being currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
In the post acquisition period the Groups interest rate risk arises principally from the revolving credit facility and bank borrowings which attract floating rate interest, see Note 19.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by using a floating rate debt with varying repayment terms.
The Group also does not trade in derivative financial instruments and so is not considered to be exposed to other price risk.
The exposure to currency risk is considered low.
153 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Financial instruments risk management continued The exposure in different currency of financial assets and liabilities is as follows: Sterling US$ Euro Total At 31 December 2018 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 35,601 1,270 823 36,048 Trade and other receivables Note 16 50,313 1,193 51,506 85,914 1,270 370 87,554 Financial liabilities Borrowings Note 19 84,430 84,430 Trade and other payables Note 18 79,478 12 2,585 82,075 163,908 12 2,585 166,505 Sterling US$ Euro Total At 31 December 2017 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 24,849 3,068 3,573 31,490 Trade and other receivables Note 16 40,869 8,292 1,254 50,415 65,718 11,360 4,827 81,905 Financial liabilities Borrowings Note 19 148,531 148,531 Trade and other payables Note 18 65,776 6,821 2,542 75,139 214,307 6,821 2,542 223,670 There are no material differences between the fair values and the book values stated above.
At 31 December 2018, the Group has negligible risk to currency fluctuations as the majority of assets and liabilities are held in the same functional currency.
Liquidity Risk The Group has generated sufficient cash from operations to meet its working capital requirements and finance its investing activities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by entering into committed bank borrowing facilities to ensure the Group has sufficient funds available, and monitoring cash flow forecasts to ensure the Group has adequate borrowing facilities.
The maturity of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Less than six Six months to Two to five Greater than months one year years five years Total At 31 December 2018 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 Borrowings Bank borrowings 548 83,882 84,430 Total 548 83,882 84,430 Less than six Six months to Two to five Greater than months one year years five years Total At 31 December 2017 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 Borrowings Bank borrowings 13,044 165,556 178,600 Total 13,044 165,556 178,600 At 31 December 2018, the Group had a 213.5 million RCF facility 31 December 2017: 250 million.
The facility was utilised throughout the year ended 31 December 2018, resulting in an interest charge of 4,282,000 2017: 3,057,000.
See Note 19 for further details.
For details of the maturity of other financial liabilities, see Note 18.
154 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The contractual non-discounted minimum future cash flows in respect of these borrowings are: Less than one Two to five Greater than year years five years Total At 31 December 2018 '000 '000 '000 '000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 1,833 89,083 90,916 Total 1,833 89,083 90,916 Less than one Two to five Greater than year years five years Total At 31 December 2017 '000 '000 '000 '000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 2,719 153,633 156,352 Total 2,719 153,633 156,352 Fair value hierarchy IFRS 13 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires fair value measurements to be recognised using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in the measurements, according to the following levels: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
All of the Groups fair value measurements have been categorised as Level 1 except for contingent consideration which has been categorised as Level 3.
There were no transfers between levels during the period.
Financial instruments in Level 3 The Groups financial instruments that are categorised under Level 3 are contingent consideration relating to the acquisition of the trading businesses in February 2015.
The techniques used to value these obligations are included in Note 18.
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Contingent consideration 000 At 1 January 2018 2,260 Gains and losses recognised in profit and loss 2,260 At 31 December 2018 Capital Risk Management The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt borrowings disclosed in Note 19 after deducting cash and bank balances and equity of the Parent Company, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Note 25.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, or borrow additional debt.
The Group must comply with two covenants each half year from 30 June 2017.
The covenants are certain ratios of interest cover and leverage, which are monitored on a regular basis by the Board.
At the year end date, management believes significant headroom exists on both covenant conditions.
Dividend policy Our dividend policy is based on a pay-out ratio of 40-50% of adjusted profit after taxation over a business cycle being the upward and downward movement of GDP around its long-term growth trend.
This adjusted profit measure can be seen in Note 12 to the Group financial statements.
Following the announcement of our dividend policy at the time of the Groups IPO in October 2015, Directors remain confident that the dividend policy remains appropriate.
At 31 December 2018, the parent maintains significant distributable reserves of c. 480million.
The Directors intend that the Company will pay an interim dividend equal to one-third of the prior years full year dividend, with a final dividend in respect of each financial year as the balance to the total annual dividend, to be announced at the time of the announcement of the interim and final results, respectively.
The Directors believe that a policy of paying one-third of the prior full year dividend as an interim in the following half-year period provides greater certainty to shareholders.
155 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Share capital Share capital Number of shares 000 At 1 January 2017 Issued, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 406,317,131 4,063 406,317,131 4,063 Issue of Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 103,417 1 At 31 December 2017 406,420,548 4,064 Issue of Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 64,971 1 At 31 December 2018 406,485,519 4,065 Comprised of: Issued, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 406,485,519 4,065 In the year ending 31 December 2018, share capital increased by 64,971 shares 2017: 103,417 shares as a result of the issue of ordinary share capital of 0.01 each to satisfy share options exercised in the year.
Reserves Share premium The share premium account is used to record the aggregate amount or value of premiums paid when the Companys shares are issued redeemed at a premium 2018: 917,000: 2017: 781,000.
Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries 2018: nil: 2017: 8,190,000.
Merger reserve The merger reserve of 369.1m arose on the acquisition of Figgs Topco Limited by Ibstock plc in the period ended 31 December 2015 and is the difference between the share capital and share premium of Figgs Topco Limited and the nominal value of the investment and preference shares in Figgs Topco Limited acquired by the Company.
Own shares held The Groups holding in its own equity instruments is shown as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost totalling 1,683,000 at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
These shares represent shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust to meet the future requirements of the employee share based payment plans.
Consideration, if any, received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to the profit and loss reserve.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Other reserves Other reserves in the prior period relate to contingent consideration arising on acquisition where there is no contractual obligation to settle the contingent consideration in cash based on events outside the Groups control.
As part of the Share Sale Agreement with the previous owner of the acquired entities, half of all proceeds above a contracted amount, received by the acquired trading business on the future sale of certain land assets, shall be payable to the seller subject to certain corporate ownership requirements.
Sale of land assets is in the control of the Group and accordingly was recognised in equity.
The related contingent consideration was recognised based on managements best estimate of 1,109,000 from an estimated range of nil to 3,800,000.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, the purchaser ceased to hold any shares in Ibstock plc, as set out in Note 30, and as a result the amount of 1,109,000 was transferred from Other reserves to Retained earnings within the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
156 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 26.
Share incentive plans Share based payment charges: Year ending Year ending 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Long-Term Incentive Plan 25 a 557 316 Share Option Plan 25 b 238 226 Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan 25 c 88 18 Save As You Earn 25 d 625 453 Share Incentive Plan 25 e 265 266 1,773 1,279 Executive share option plans The Group operates a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, a Share Option Plan SOP and an Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan ADBP share based payment awards for selected management.
a Long-Term Incentive Programme LTIP The Group granted LTIPs during the year for key management at the discretion of the Board and this has been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of nil-priced share options.
The LTIP awards contain performance conditions dependent upon the growth of the Groups earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR.
Please refer to the information given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 107 for details in relation to the vesting conditions in relation to the LTIP.
During the year, 614,484 options 2017: 731,007 over Ordinary Shares of 1p each were granted to management under the LTIP and 70,382 shares 2017: 73,684 were exercised at a share price at the date of exercise of 195.0p 2017: 252.0p.
During the year ending 31 December 2018, 165,415 options 2017: 108,313 lapsed.
b Share Option Plan SOP The Group granted options under the Share Option Plan during the year at the discretion of the Board and this has been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Under the SOP 443,386 options 2017: 484,570 options over Ordinary Shares of 1p each were granted to management.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, 10,838 options 2017: nil were exercised under the SOP at a share price at the date of exercise of 207.0p.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, 332,203 options 2017: 81,538 options lapsed.
Awards granted in the year under the scheme have a specified exercise price of 290.0p 2017: 211.8p and the weighted average exercise price of options outstanding is 222.1p 2017: 208.5p.
The SOP has an employment condition of three years and no other performance conditions.
c Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan ADBP The ADBP incorporates the Companys executive bonus scheme as well as a mechanism for the deferral of bonus into awards over Ordinary Shares.
The ADBP operates in respect of the annual bonus earned for the financial year.
The Board can determine that part of the bonus earned under the ADBP is provided as an award of deferred shares, which take the form of a nil cost option.
The maximum value of deferred shares is 50% of the bonus earned.
In the year ended 31 December 2017, 138,918 options were awarded over Ordinary Shares under the ADBP was in relation to the 2017 year end bonus with options issued in April 2018.
The main terms of these awards are a minimum deferral period of three years, during which no performance conditions will apply: and the participants employment at the end of the deferral period.
In the current year, no options lapsed 2017: 9,593 options and at 31 December 2018, an amount of 48,000 2017: 76,000 had been recorded in accruals for the award relating to the bonus earned for the year ending 31 December 2018.
All employee share schemes In addition to the Executive share option plans, the Group has two all-employee share based payment arrangements the Save As You Earn SAYE and Share Incentive Plan SIP awards: d SAYE In order to participate in the Groups Sharesave Plan, an employee must enter into a linked savings contract with a bank or building society to make contributions from salary on a monthly basis over a three or five year period.
A participant who enters into a savings agreement is granted an option to acquire Ordinary Shares under the Sharesave Plan at a specified exercise price.
In the year ending 31 December 2018, the total number of awards issued under this scheme was 1,368,879 2017: nil options of which 308,197 2017: 623,671 have lapsed and 64,971 2017: 29,733 were exercised.
e SIP On 18 December 2015, the Company announced a Share Incentive Plan SIP following the Groups IPO.
Subject to qualifying employment conditions, all employees were entitled to apply for free shares up to a value of 800 depending on their period of service.
The number of shares issued under the SIP in the year ended 31 December 2016 was 553,150.
The free shares have a three year employment condition and no further vesting conditions.
In the period since award to 31 December 2018, 33,700 shares lapsed and 65,998 shares were provided to good leavers.
157 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Share incentive plans continued The assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the LTIP, SOP and ADBP awards granted during the year ended 31 December 2018 are detailed below: SAYE LTIP SOP ADBP Grant date 06-Apr-18 09-Apr-18 & 15-Aug-18 09-Apr-18 09-Apr-18 Share price at grant date 2.90 2.89 2.89 2.89 Exercise price 2.3 Nil 2.90 Nil Number of shares issued 1,368,879 614,484 443,386 138,918 Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Pricing Model Binomial Monte Carlo Binomial Binomial % expected to vest 75% 50% 90% 95% Expected share price volatility 32.19% 32.19% 32.19% n a Expected dividend yield 4.50% n a 4.50% n a Expected option life 3.3 years 3 years 6.5 years n a Fair value per share 0.70 2.34 0.54 2.89 Risk free rate 0.91% 0.91% 1.20% n a Awards under the Executive Share Option plans and All-employee share schemes are as follows: Executive Share All-employee options schemes Outstanding at 1 January 2018 3,063,196 3,596,758 Awards granted 1,196,788 1,368,879 Awards exercised 81,220 126,319 Awards lapsed forfeited 497,618 283,297 Awards outstanding at 31 December 2018 3,681,146 4,556,021 In assessing the expected volatility level, due to Ibstock plcs short share price history, volatility of similar listed companies have been used as a proxy.
Operating leases and commitments The Group as lessee Commitments under non cancellable operating leases due are as follows: 31 December 2018 Land and buildings Other Total 000 000 000 Within one year 3,547 2,880 6,427 Between one and five years 11,013 3,569 14,582 After five years 20,493 81 20,574 35,053 6,530 41,583 31 December 2017 Land and buildings Other Total 000 000 000 Within one year 3,302 4,128 7,430 Between one and five years 10,446 6,175 16,621 After five years 19,091 150 19,241 32,839 10,453 43,292 The Group is lessee on a number of properties in addition to plant and machinery which it uses in its operations.
The operating leases run for a variety of terms and their non-cancellable commitments are set out above.
There is no material contingent rent payable, renewal or purchase options, escalation clauses or restrictions imposed by the lease agreements.
158 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The Group as lessor The future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Within one year 658 562 Between one and five years 1,075 786 After five years 1,053 999 2,786 2,347 The Group acts as lessor on a number of properties where it leases surplus land not currently utilised by the business.
The operating leases run for a variety of terms and their future minimum lease payments receivable are set out above.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for not yet incurred at the balance sheet date is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Amount contracted for which has not been provided 6,325 16,067 28.
Group subsidiaries Ibstock plc had the following subsidiaries as at 31 December 2018: Proportion of Proportion of ordinary shares ordinary shares Registration Country of held directly by held by the Entity Principal activity number incorporation the parent Group 1 Figgs Topco Ltd Holding Company 09332766 UK 100% 100% 1 Figgs Midco Ltd Holding Company 09332828 UK 100% 100% 1 Figgs Newco Ltd Holding Company 09332892 UK 100% 100% 1 Ibstock Building Products Ltd Holding Company 09329395 UK 100% 100% 1 Figgs Bidco Ltd Holding Company 09332893 UK 100% 100% 1 Ibstock USA Ltd formerly Figgs Bidco 2 Ltd Holding Company 09415340 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Group Ltd Holding Company 00984268 UK 100% 100% Forticrete Ltd Manufacturer of concrete products 00221210 UK 100% 100% 2 Home Building Supplies Ltd Sale and distribution of building materials 07350732 UK 100% 100% Baldwin Industries Ltd Holding Company 01516334 UK 100% 100% Anderton Concrete Products Ltd Manufacturer and supplier of precast and prestressed concrete products 01900103 UK 100% 100% Oakhill Holdings Ltd Holding Company 04077204 UK 100% 100% Supreme Concrete Ltd Manufacturer and supplier of precast and prestressed concrete products 01410463 UK 100% 100% Gee-Co Holdings Ltd Dormant 02480251 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Holding Company Ltd Holding Company 00784339 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Ltd Brick manufacturer 00063230 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Leasing Ltd Dormant 05378321 UK 100% 100% 3 Ibstock Management Services Ltd Dormant 11953 Jersey 100% 100% 3 Ibstock Finance Co Ltd Dormant 51710 Jersey 100% 100% Kevington Building Products Ltd Dormant 02122467 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Leicester Ltd Dormant 00106667 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Aldridge Ltd Dormant 00614225 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Himley Ltd Dormant 00092769 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Westbrick Ltd Dormant 01606990 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Aldridge Property Ltd Dormant 00251918 UK 100% 100% 2 Moore & Sons Ltd Dormant 00118818 UK 100% 100% Manchester Brick & Precast Ltd Dormant 02888297 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Nostell Ltd Dormant 00531826 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Roughdales Ltd Dormant 00598862 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Cattybrook Ltd Dormant 00011298 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Hathernware Ltd Dormant 00424843 UK 100% 100% Ibstock Bricks 1996 Ltd Dormant 00246855 UK 100% 100% 2 Wealdbeam Systems Ltd Dormant 06932047 UK 100% 100% 2 Loopfire Systems Ltd Dormant 04105160 UK 100% 100% The country of incorporation is the same as the place of business for all the above entities.
All entities have the same registered office as the ultimate parent company, Leicester Road, Ibstock, Leicestershire LE67 6HS except those subsidiary entities with numerical superscripts.
1 Devonshire House, 1 Mayfair Place, London W1J 8AJ.
2 Coppingford Hall, Sawtry, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE28 5GP.
3 47 Esplanade, St Hellier, Jersey, Channel Isles JE1 0BD.
All dormant entities have taken exemptions under s394A of the Companies Act 2016 from preparing or filing individual accounts.
Figgs Topco Ltd is owned directly by Ibstock plc.
All other companies are indirectly owned.
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements.
The proportion of the voting rights in the subsidiary undertakings held directly by the Parent Company do not differ from the proportion of ordinary shares held.
The Parent Company does not have any shareholdings in the preference shares of subsidiary undertakings included in the Group.
160 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 30.
Related party transactions Balances and transactions between the Ibstock plc the ultimate parent and its subsidiaries listed in Note 29, which are related parties, are eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
See Note 7 for details of Director and key management personnel remuneration.
There are no further related transaction in the year ended 31 December 2018.
In the year ended 31 December 2017: On 9 March 2017, Diamond BC S. a. r. l a wholly owned subsidiary of Bain Capital Partners LLC announced the proposed placing of approximately 40,600,000 Ordinary Shares in the capital of Ibstock plc.
On 10 March 2017, the Company announced that 48,600,000 Ordinary Shares were sold due to strong investor demand.
Following the sale, Bain Capital Partners LLC held Ordinary Shares representing approximately 25.0% of the entire issued share capital.
On 25 April 2017, Diamond BC S. a. r. l announced the proposed placing of approximately 50,000,000 Ordinary Shares in the capital of Ibstock plc.
On 26 April 2017, the Company announced that 101,600,000 Ordinary Shares were sold due to strong investor demand.
Following the sale, Bain Capital Partners LLC ceased to hold any Ordinary Shares in Ibstock plc.
As at 31 December 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company, consider, based on the facts and circumstances, that Bain Capital Partners LLC no longer continues to have significant influence over the Group.
There is no ultimate controlling party.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities were provided for on acquisition which took place in the period ended 31 December 2015 in line with IFRS 3.
There are no further contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2018 or 31 December 2017.
Dividends paid and proposed Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares: Final dividend for 2017: 6.5 pence 2016: 5.3 pence 26,418 21,532 Supplementary dividend paid in 2018: 6.5 pence 2017: nil 26,419 Interim dividend for 2018: 3.0 pence 2017: 2.6 pence 12,194 10,566 65,031 32,098 Proposed not recognised as a liability as at 31 December Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares: Final dividend for 2018: 6.5 pence 2017: 6.5 pence 26,423 26,417 26,423 26,417 The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2018 of 6.5 pence per Ordinary Share 2017: 6.5 pence which will distribute an estimated 26,423,000 2017: 26,417,000 of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 7 June 2019 to those shareholders who are on the register at 10 May 2019 subject to approval at the Groups Annual General Meeting.
Post balance sheet events Except for the proposed dividend see Note 32, no further subsequent events requiring further disclosure or adjustments to these financial statements have been identified since the balance sheet date.
161 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
