164 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Shareholder and general information Announcement of trading results Corporate website American Depository Receipts The trading results for the Group for the first half The IMI plc website provides a wealth of useful IMI plc has an American Depositary Receipt ADR of 2019 will be announced on 26 July 2019. information for shareholders and should be your programme that trades on the Over-The-Counter first port of call for general queries relating to the market in the USA, using the symbol IMIAY.
The trading results for the full year ending Company and your shares.
As well as providing ADR enquiries should be directed to Citibank 31 December 2019 will be announced in share price data and financial history, the site Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence, February 2020. also provides background information about RI 02940-3077, USA.
Toll-free number in the the Company.
USA is 1-877-CITI-ADR 877-248-4237 and from Interim management statements will be outside the USA is 1-781-575-4555.
You can also issued in May and November 2019.
Shareholders are also encouraged to sign up to email citibank@shareholders-online.
receive news alerts by email in the Investors section of the website.
These include all of the financial Dividend payments news releases from throughout the year that are Headquarters and registered office Final: 17 May 2019 not sent to shareholders by post.
You can access Lakeside the corporate website at: www.
Interim: September 2019 Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park Birmingham Annual General Meeting 2019 Share prices and capital gains tax B37 7XZ This years AGM will be held at the Crowne The closing price of the Companys ordinary shares Telephone: 44 121 717 3700 Plaza NEC, Pendigo Way, Birmingham B40 1NT on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December on Thursday 9 May 2019 at 10am.
For further IMI plc is registered in England No.
The market information, please refer to the Notice of Meeting value of the Companys ordinary shares on which is on the corporate website.
31 March 1982, as calculated for capital gains Registrars tax purposes, was 53.5p per share.
Equiniti Individual Savings Account ISA The Companys SEAQ number is 51443.
Aspect House IMIs ordinary shares can be held in an ISA.
Spencer Road For information about the ISA operated by our Lancing Enquiries about shareholdings Registrar, Equiniti, please call the Equiniti ISA West Sussex For enquiries concerning shareholders personal helpline on 0345 300 0430.
Lines are open from BN99 6DA holdings, please contact the Companys Registrar: 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Telephone: 0371 384 2916 or from overseas Equiniti contact details appear to the right.
public holidays in England and Wales.
44 121 415 7047 Please remember to tell Equiniti if you move house, Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday change bank details or if there is any other change Share dealing service excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Managed by Equiniti, the Companys registrar, the IMI plc Share dealing service provides shareholders Stockbrokers Managing your shares on-line with a simple way of buying and selling IMI ordinary JPMorgan Cazenove shares.
Full written Shareholders can manage their holdings on-line Bank of America Merrill Lynch details can be obtained from Equiniti contact by registering with Shareview, the internet based details appear to the right.
Registration is a Auditor straightforward process and allows shareholders to: Ernst & Young LLP help us to reduce print, paper and postage costs Share fraud and the associated environmental impact of Share fraud includes scams where investors are these: called out of the blue and offered shares that often Cautionary statement cast your AGM vote electronically: turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an This Annual Report may contain forward-looking inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come receive an email alert when important shareholder statements that may or may not prove accurate.
For from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are documents are available on-line such as Annual example, statements regarding expected revenue mostly based abroad.
Further information on how Reports and Notices of General Meetings: growth and operating margins, market trends and to spot share fraud or report a scam can be found access details of your individual shareholding our product pipeline are forward-looking statements.
quickly and securely: It is believed that the expectations reflected in these set up a dividend mandate on-line: and statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties that are change your registered postal address or your inherent in any forward-looking statement which dividend mandate details.
could cause actual results to differ materially from To find out more information about the services those currently anticipated.
Any forward-looking offered by Shareview and to register, please visit: statement is made in good faith and based on www.
information available to IMI plc as of the date of the preparation of this Annual Report.
All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to IMI plc are qualified by this caution.
IMI plc does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in circumstances or in IMI plcs expectations.
Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd IMI plc Lakeside Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park Birmingham B37 7XZ United Kingdom www.
