NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES consolidated financial statements from the date that control BASIS OF PREPARATION commences until the date that control ceases.
Where necessary, The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed to ensure accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC as published by the International Accounting Standards The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the Board and adopted by the EU.
In addition, the financial statements purchase of subsidiaries.
The excess of the value transferred to comply with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to the seller in return for control of the acquired business together companies reporting under IFRS.
with the fair value of any previously held equity interest in that business over the Groups share of the fair value of the The financial statements have been prepared under the historical identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill.
cost convention except where fair value measurement is required under IFRS as described below in the accounting policies on Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains financial instruments, and on a going concern basis as detailed on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that JOINT VENTURES affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS the period and of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint the balance sheet date.
The key estimates and assumptions are operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights set out in note 2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
and obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint experience and various other factors that are believed to be ventures.
The financial statements of joint ventures are included reasonable in the circumstances and constitute managements in the Group financial statements using the equity accounting best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
In the method, with the Groups share of net assets included as a future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and single line item entitled Investments accounted for using the judgements.
This could affect future financial statements as the equity method.
In the same way, the Groups share of earnings is original estimates and judgements are modified, as appropriate, presented in the consolidated income statement below operating in the year in which the circumstances change.
profit entitled Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method.
The Company provides guarantees to the following subsidiaries under section 479 of the Companies Act 2006, whereby the FOREIGN CURRENCY subsidiaries, incorporated in the UK and Ireland, are exempt from Items included in the financial statements of each Group the requirements of the Act relating to the audit of individual company are measured using the currency of the primary accounts for the financial year ending 30 September 2018: economic environment in which the company operates Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited thefunctional currency.
Sinclair Collis Limited The income and cash flow statements of Group companies using Imperial Tobacco Ventures Limited non-sterling functional currencies are translated to sterling the Imperial Tobacco Ireland Unlimited Company Groups presentational currency at average rates of exchange in each period.
Assets and liabilities of these companies are Newglade International Unlimited Company translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Rizla UK Limited The differences between retained profits and losses translated Imperial Tobacco Overseas Polska Limited at average and closing rates are taken to reserves, as are Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings 3 Limited differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets at the beginning of the year.
Imperial Tobacco Altadis Limited Transactions in currencies other than a companys functional La Flor fide Copan UK Limited currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the Tabacalera fide Garcia UK Limited date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting Imperial Brands Ventures Limited from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation Nerudia Consulting Limited at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are The principal accounting policies, which have been applied recognised in the consolidated income statement with exchange consistently other than where new policies have been adopted, differences arising on trading transactions being reported in are set out below.
operating profit, and those arising on financing transactions being reported in net finance costs unless as a result of net investment BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION hedging they are reported in other comprehensive income.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the results of Imperial Brands PLC the Company, a publicly listed Company The Group designates as net investment hedges certain external incorporated in the United Kingdom, and its subsidiary undertakings, borrowings and derivatives up to the value of the net assets of together with the Groups share of the results of its associates Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies and joint arrangements.
after deducting permanent intra-group loans.
Gains or losses on these hedges that are regarded as highly effective are transferred Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control to other comprehensive income, where they offset gains or exists when the Group is exposed to, or has the rights to, variable losses on translation of the net investments that are recorded returns from its involvement with the entity and has the inequity, in the exchange translation reserve.
ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
88 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The Groups financial results are principally exposed to euro and Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the US dollar exchange rates, which are detailed in the table below.
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group 2018 2017 Foreign exchange and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse rateversus GBP Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only Euro 1.1270 1.1304 1.1341 1.1480 to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be realised.
Deferred US Dollar 1.3046 1.3460 1.3389 1.2668 tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and are REVENUE RECOGNITION expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled or the For the Tobacco & Next Generation Products Tobacco & NGP deferred tax asset is realised.
business previously referred to as Tobacco, revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales DIVIDENDS taxes, rebates and discounts.
Revenue from the sale of goods Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in is recognised when a Group company has delivered products which the dividends are approved by shareholders, whereas to the customer, the customer has accepted the products and interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the collectability of the related receivables is reasonably assured.
Sales of services, which include fees for distributing certain third party products, are recognised in the accounting period in which INTANGIBLE ASSETS GOODWILL the services are rendered.
Income arising from the licencing or Goodwill represents the excess of value transferred to the seller sale of intellectual property, occurring in the ordinary course of in return for control of the acquired business together with the business, is treated as revenue.
fair value of any previously held equity interest in that business For the Distribution business previously referred to as Logistics, over the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and net assets.
services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts when goods have Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried been delivered or services provided.
The Logistics business only at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognises commission revenue on purchase and sale transactions recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement in which it acts as a commission agent.
Distribution and marketing and cannot be subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment commissions are included in revenue.
Revenue is recognised on testing, goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units products on consignment when these are sold by the consignee.
that are expected to benefit from the business combination in Customer rebates and discounts may be offered to promote sales.
The calculated costs are accrued and accounted for as incurred INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER and matched as a deduction from the associated revenues i. e. excluded from revenues reported in the Groups consolidated Other intangible assets are initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as income statement.
part of a business combination, in which case they are initially DUTY AND SIMILAR ITEMS recognised at fair value.
They are shown in the balance sheet at Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the historical cost or fair value depending on how they are acquired characteristics of duty.
In countries where duty is a production less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
tax, duty is included in revenue and in cost of sales in the These assets consist mainly of acquired trademarks, consolidated income statement.
Where duty is a sales tax, duty intellectual property, concessions and rights, acquired customer is excluded from revenue and cost of sales.
Payments due in relationships and computer software.
The Davidoff cigarette the USA under the Master Settlement Agreement are deducted trademark and some premium cigar trademarks are considered from revenue.
by the Directors to have indefinite lives based on the fact that they are established international brands with global potential.
TAXES Trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortised but are Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income reviewed annually for impairment.
for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in Intellectual property including trademarks, supply agreements respect of previous years.
including customer relationships and computer software are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns where the applicable tax regulation is subject to Intellectual property 5 30 years straight line interpretation and establishes provisions on the basis of Supply agreements 3 15 years straight line amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities only where it Software 3 10 years straight line is considered more likely than not that an amount will be paid or received.
This test is applied to each individual uncertain position which is then measured on the single most likely outcome based on interpretation of legislation, management experience and professional advice.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the tax base, except if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
com 89 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued However, as the Group has decided as permitted under IAS 39 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED not to cash flow or fair value hedge account for its derivative PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT financial instruments, changes in fair values are recognised in Property, plant and equipment are shown in the consolidated the consolidated income statement in the period in which they balance sheet at historical cost or fair value depending on arise unless the derivative qualifies and has been designated as how they are acquired, less accumulated depreciation and a net investment hedging instrument in which case the changes impairment.
Costs incurred after initial recognition are included in fair values, attributable to foreign exchange, are recognised in in the assets carrying amounts or recognised as a separate asset other comprehensive income.
as appropriate only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with them will flow to the Group and the cost Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit of the item can be measured reliably.
support annex documents under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA agreements in respect of certain Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is provided on other derivatives are netted off the carrying value of those derivatives property, plant and equipment so as to write down the initial cost in the consolidated balance sheet.
of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable Property up to 50 years straight line value.
Cost is determined using the first in first out FIFO Plant and equipment 2 20 years straight line reducing balance method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress Fixtures and motor comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and vehicles 2 15 years straight line related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, if in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when exceeds 12 months is classified as a current asset, consistent the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the with recognised industry practice.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the rights to receive benefits have expired or been transferred, PROVISIONS and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet of ownership.
Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result obligation is extinguished.
of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable Non-derivative financial assets are classified as loans and estimate of the amount can be made.
Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision for impairment restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly of receivables is established when there is objective evidence announced, and it is more likely than not that the plan will be that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due implemented, and the amount required to settle any obligations according to the original terms of those receivables.
The amount arising can be reliably estimated.
Future operating losses are not of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying provided for.
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood and is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued considering the class of obligations as a whole.
Factored receivables under non-recourse recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any agreements are derecognised when rights to receive cashflows one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
are transferred or there are contractual obligations to pay the cash flows to the factoring party.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that arise from fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the the effective interest method.
For borrowings, the carrying occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised events, not wholly within the control of the Group.
liabilities are not recognised, only disclosed, unless the possibility of a future outflow of resources is considered remote, Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held or where a disclosure would seriously prejudice the position of on call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments.
In the event that the outflow of resources associated The Group transacts derivative financial instruments to manage the with a contingent liability is assessed as probable, and if the size underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
of the outflow can be reliably estimated, a provision is recognised The Group does not transact derivative financial instruments in the financial statements.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are included in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, and include accruedinterest receivable and payable where relevant.
90 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES TREASURY SHARES For defined benefit schemes, the amount recognised in the When the Company purchases its own equity share capital consolidated balance sheet is the difference between the present treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted and the fair value of the scheme assets to the extent that they are on consolidation from equity attributable to owners of the parent demonstrably recoverable either by refund or a reduction in future until the shares are reissued or disposed of.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined the related income tax effects, increases equity attributable to by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest owners of the parent.
When such shares are cancelled they are rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have USE OF ADJUSTED MEASURES terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related Management believes that non-GAAP or adjusted measures pension obligation.
provide an important comparison of business performance and The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees reflect the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, during the year is charged to operating profit.
Past service costs adjusted measures of operating profit, net finance costs, are recognised immediately in operating profit, unless the profit before tax, tax, attributable earnings and earnings per changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees share exclude, where applicable, one-off non-recurring events remaining in service for a specified period of time.
including acquisition costs, amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, post-employment All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between benefits net financing cost, fair value and exchange gains and actual and expected returns on assets and differences that arise losses on financial instruments, and related tax effects and as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised tax matters.
Reconciliations between adjusted and reported immediately in full in the statement of comprehensive income operating profit are included within note 3 to the financial for the period in which they arise.
An interest charge is made in statements, adjusted and reported net finance costs in note 7, the income statement by applying the rate used to discount the adjusted and reported tax in note 8, and adjusted and reported defined benefit obligations to the net defined benefit liability of earnings per share in note 10. the schemes.
The adjusted measures in this report are not defined terms under For defined contribution schemes, contributions are recognised IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The items excluded from adjusted results are those which are The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-Based one-off in nature or items which arose due to acquisitions and Payment Transactions to both equity-settled and cash-settled are not influenced by the day to day operations of the Group, share-based employee compensation schemes.
The majority of and the movements in the fair value of financial instruments the Groups schemes are equity-settled.
which are marked to market and not naturally offset.
Adjusted net finance costs also excludes all post-employment benefit net Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair finance cost since pension assets and liabilities and redundancy value at the date of grant and are expensed over the vesting and social plan provisions do not form part of adjusted net debt.
period, based on the number of instruments that are expected This allows comparison of the Groups cost of debt with adjusted to vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on total net debt.
The adjusted measures are used by management to shareholder returns, the fair value at the date of grant reflects assess the Groups financial performance and aid comparability these conditions.
Earnings per share and net revenue vesting of results year on year.
conditions are reflected in the estimate of awards that will eventually vest.
For cash-settled share-based payments, The principal adjustments made to reported profits are a liability equal to the portion of the services received is as follows: recognised at its current fair value at each balance sheet date.
Where applicable the Group recognises the impact of revisions to ACQUISITION COSTS original estimates in the consolidated income statement, with a Adjusted measures exclude costs associated with major corresponding adjustment to equity for equity-settled schemes acquisitions as they do not relate to the day to day operational performance of the Group.
and current liabilities for cash-settled schemes.
Fair values are measured using appropriate valuation models, taking into AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF ACQUIRED account the terms and conditions of the awards.
INTANGIBLES The Group funds the purchase of shares to satisfy rights to Acquired intangibles are amortised over their estimated shares arising under share-based employee compensation useful economic lives where these are considered to be finite.
Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in Acquired intangibles considered to have an indefinite life are Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
On consolidation, these not amortised.
We exclude from our adjusted measures the shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity attributable amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles, other than to owners of the parent.
When the rights are exercised, equity software and internally generated intangibles, and the deferred is increased by the amount of any proceeds received by the tax associated with amortisation of acquired intangibles.
The Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
deferred tax is excluded on the basis that it will only crystallise upon disposal of the intangibles and goodwill.
The related current cash tax benefit is retained in the adjusted measure to reflect the ongoing tax benefit to the Group.
com 91 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued OTHER NON-GAAP MEASURES USED BY 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FAIR VALUE GAINS AND LOSSES ON DERIVATIVE MANAGEMENT FINANCIALINSTRUMENTS AND EXCHANGE GAINS AND NET REVENUE LOSSES ON BORROWINGS Tobacco & NGP net revenue comprises Tobacco & NGP revenue IAS 39 requires that all derivative financial instruments are less duty and similar items, excluding peripheral products.
recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value, with Management considers this an important measure in assessing changes in the fair value being recognised in the consolidated the performance of Tobacco & NGP operations.
income statement unless the instrument satisfies the hedge DISTRIBUTION FEES accounting rules under IFRS and the Group chooses to designate Distribution fees comprises the Distribution segment revenue the derivative financial instrument as a hedge.
less the cost of distributed products.
Management considers The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, this an important measure in assessing the performance of commercial and structured manner.
However, the strict hedging Distribution operations.
requirements of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective ADJUSTED NET DEBT hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting.
As a Management monitors the Groups borrowing levels using result, and as permitted under IAS 39, the Group has decided adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals and the fair not to apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting for its value of derivative financial instruments providing commercial derivative financial instruments.
However, the Group does cash flow hedges.
apply net investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the Groups NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND foreign operations, as permitted by IAS 39, in order to reduce INTERPRETATIONS income statement volatility.
The Group has adopted the Amendment to IAS 7 Statement of We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative financial Cash Flows with effect from 1 October 2017.
This amendment instruments and exchange gains and losses on borrowings from requires reporting entities to provide disclosures that enable adjusted net finance costs.
Fair value gains and losses on the users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities interest element of derivative financial instruments are excluded arising from financing activities, by disclosing changes arising as they will reverse over time or are matched in future periods from cash flows as well as non-cash changes.
There is no by interest charges.
Fair value gains and losses on the currency material impact of the adoption on the Group.
There have been element of derivative financial instruments and exchange gains no other new standards or amendments which became effective and losses on borrowings are excluded as the relevant foreign for the current reporting period that have had a material effect exchange gains and losses on the commercially hedged item are on the Group.
accumulated as a separate component of other comprehensive The following Standards which have not been adopted in these income in accordance with the Groups policy on foreign currency.
financial statements that are in issue but not yet effective for RESTRUCTURING COSTS the 2018 year end are: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Significant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
These will be adopted businesses and in major rationalisation and optimisation in the financial year commencing 1 October 2018.
IFRS 16 Leases initiatives together with their related tax effects are excluded will be adopted in the year commencing 1 October 2019. from our adjusted earnings measures.
These include restructuring IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial costs incurred as part of fundamental multi-year transformational Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and includes change projects but do not include costs related to ongoing cost revised guidance on: reduction activity.
These costs include impairment of property, plant and equipment which are surplus to requirements due to Classification and measurement: Financial assets will be restructuring activity.
classified as either being accounted for as amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income, or fair value through POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS NET FINANCING COST profit or loss, depending on the entitys business model and the The net interest on defined benefit assets or liabilities, together contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments.
There with the unwind of discount on redundancy, social plans and are no changes to the classification or accounting for financial other long-term provisions are reported within net finance costs.
Other than trade receivables and derivative financial These items together with their related tax effects are excluded instruments, the Group does not currently hold any significant from our adjusted earnings measures.
The application of this requirement is not TAX MATTERS expected to materially impact the financial statements.
Tax matters are significant one-off tax charges or credits Impairment of financial assets: Impairment provisions will arisingfrom: be calculated using a forward looking expected credit loss prior period tax items including re-measurement of deferred approach for financial assets, rather than the incurred loss tax balances on a change in tax rates : or approach applicable under IAS 39.
The expected credit loss a provision for uncertain tax items not arising in the normal model requires the recognition of a provision which reflects course of business: or future impairment risk.
Provision levels will be calculated on the residual credit risk after consideration of any credit newly enacted taxes in the year: protection which is used by the Group.
or are tax items that are closely related to previously recognised Receivables which have already become overdue will continue to tax matters, and are excluded from our adjusted tax charge to aid be provided in line with the current provisioning policy.
With the comparability and understanding of the Groups performance.
exception of the Palmer and Harvey debt write-off, the Group has The recognition and utilisation of deferred tax assets relating historically experienced low levels of credit default.
Given this, to losses not historically generated in the normal course of we do not expect the level of the additional expected credit loss business are excluded on the same basis.
92 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Hedge Accounting: Adoption of aspects of IFRS 9 relating to hedge 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES accounting are currently optional as organisations are allowed AND JUDGEMENTS to continue to apply the IAS 39 requirements.
IFRS 9 aligns The Group makes estimates and judgements associated with the accounting approach with an entitys risk management accounting entries which will be affected by future events.
strategies and risk management objectives.
The Group will adopt Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based the hedge accounting aspects of IFRS 9 from 1October 2019. on historical experience, and other factors, including current information that helps form a forward-looking view of expected However, it is expected that the hedging approach will continue future outcomes.
to be limited to the use of net investment hedging.
Consequently, the adoption of this area of IFRS 9 is not expected to materially Estimates involve the determination of the quantum of impact the financial statements.
accounting balances to be recognised.
Judgements typically involve decisions such as whether to recognise an asset IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will be effective or liability.
for the period beginning 1 October 2018.
IFRS 15 introduces an amended framework for revenue recognition and replaces the The actual amounts recognised in the future may deviate from existing guidance in IAS 18 Revenue.
The standard provides these estimates and judgements.
The estimates and judgements revised guidance on revenue accounting, matching income that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to recognition to the delivery of performance obligations in the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next contractual arrangements for the provision of goods or services.
financial year are discussed below.
It also provides different guidance on the measurement of revenue contracts involving discounts, rebates and payments PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT to customers.
There is a significant degree of estimation required in assessing both the carrying value and useful economic life of assets in The Group has assessed the impact of the adoption of IFRS 15. situations where they are underutilised or associated with a Following the review of our performance obligations revenue restructuring programme.
In these situations, there is often a will continue to be recognised when a Group company has need to write down assets to their recoverable amounts or revise delivered products to a customer, the customer has accepted their depreciation rates.
Details of asset impairments associated those products and collectability of the related receivables is with restructuring programmes are detailed in note 5. reasonably assured.
We will reclassify certain distribution, advertising and selling costs arising from payments to INTANGIBLE ASSETS customers, from overheads other costs of sales to discounts Judgements typically include determining both the existence from revenue.
These costs are judged as not distinct from the and valuation of these type of assets when they are acquired, related sales to the customer.
This will reduce revenue, but will particularly where they arise as part of a business acquisition.
have no net impact on gross profit.
The Group will take the option Assets are only recognised when it is judged that the Group to restate the comparative figures on adoption of the standard.
has beneficial right to the use of the assets as guided by We estimate that the adoption will reduce the level of revenue applicable Accounting Standards.
The valuation of these assets recorded in the year ended 30 September 2018 by approximately requires estimates of initial current and future carrying values.
Estimation is also required in the assessment of the future life of The Group has also reviewed the presentation of duties, levies these assets.
and similar payments against the guidance given by IFRS 15.
INITIAL CARRYING VALUE Levy payments made in the United States under the Master The Group allocates the purchase price of acquired businesses Settlement Agreement MSA are currently deducted from net to their identifiable tangible and intangible assets, including revenue.
Following the adoption of the standard MSA payments goodwill.
For major acquisitions the Group engages external will be recognised in other cost of sales.
We estimate that this consultants to assist in the valuation of identifiable intangible change will increase the level of net revenue recorded in the assets.
On acquisition intangible assets are valued at fair value year ended 30 September 2018 by approximately 425 million.
The valuation process is based The adoption of the standard is not expected to have any other on associated future cash flows and is also dependent on material impact on the Groups net assets or gross profit.
assumptions about economic factors and business strategy.
IFRS 16 Leases will be effective for the period beginning Goodwill represents the excess of value transferred to the seller 1October 2019.
The new standard requires operating leases to in return for control of the acquired business together with the be accounted for through the recognition of a right of use asset fair value of any previously held equity interest in that business and a corresponding lease liability.
Interest-bearing borrowings over the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable and non-current assets will increase on implementation of net assets.
Operating lease costs will no longer be classified DETERMINATION OF USEFUL ECONOMIC LIFE within the income statement based on amounts paid, but via For non-goodwill intangible assets, there are critical judgements a right of use asset depreciation charge recognised within required in determining whether the asset has an indefinite operating profit and a lease interest expense within finance useful economic life, or not.
The Davidoff cigarette trademark costs, subject to the exemptions on amount and duration.
and some premium cigar trademarks are currently considered to TheGroup is currently assessing the impact of the new standard.
have indefinite lives, based on the fact that they are established Our initial assessment of IFRS 16 leases is that it will not have a international brands with global potential.
material effect on the Groups net assets or results.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments will be effective, subject to EU endorsement, for the period beginning 1 October 2019.
The Interpretation clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
Work is ongoing to assess the impact of the Interpretation.
com 93 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued theprogress of the case including progress after the date of the 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES financial statements but before those statements are issued : the AND JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers: experience AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT of similar cases: and any decision of the Groups management as For non-indefinite life assets, which are amortised, the useful to how it will respond to the litigation, claim or assessment.
economic life and recoverable amounts are estimated based Judgement is required as to whether a liability exists.
Where a upon the expectation of the amount and time period during liability is determined there can be a degree of estimation of the which an intangible asset will support future cashflows.
potential level of damages expected.
Key areas of judgement Dueto estimation uncertainties the useful economic lives and include consideration as to whether certain claims associated associated amortisation rates have to be reviewed and revised with the acquisition of certain brands specifically in respect where necessary.
In addition, where there are indications that of three of the four US states that are not parties to the Master the current carrying value of an intangible asset is greater than Settlement Agreement MSA are likely to succeed, and the likely its recoverable amount, impairment in the carrying value of the outcome of a number of Product liability claims.
More detail as asset may be required.
to the considered position on claims is given in both note28 and Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment within the Directors Report update on Tobacco and e-vapour review of intangible assets include the following: related litigation.
significant underperformance relative to historical or To the extent that the Groups assessments at any time do not projected future operating results: reflect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome of any significant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired claim, its future financial statements may be materially affected, assets or the strategy for the overall business: and with a favourable or adverse impact upon the Groups operating profit, financial position and liquidity.
significant negative industry or economic trends.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the Accounting for retirement benefits uses a number of accounting application of the Groups accounting estimates in relation to estimates.
The Group holds a number of defined benefit retirement intangible assets affect the amounts reported in the financial schemes across various jurisdictions.
The valuation of these statements, especially the estimates of the expected useful schemes requires estimates of various market, demographic economic lives and the carrying values of those assets.
If and mortality assumptions, which are fully reviewed by external business conditions were different, or if different assumptions actuaries.
Full disclosure of the estimates used in retirement were used in the calculation of accounting estimates, it is likely benefit accounting is included within note 22. that materially different amounts could be reported in the PROVISIONS Groups financial statements.
Provision accounting involves judgement as to whether a liability Indefinite life intangible assets, including goodwill, are subject to should be recognised and requires estimates of the quantum of annual impairment testing where an assessment of the carrying any such liability.
The Group holds provisions where appropriate value of the asset against its recoverable amount is undertaken.
in respect of estimated future economic outflows, principally for There are uncertainties associated with estimating the valuation restructuring activity, which arise due to past events.
Estimates are of the recoverable amount.
based on management judgement and information available at the Details of goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments balance sheet date.
Actual outflows may not occur as anticipated, and the newly acquired intangible assets arising from the Von and estimates may prove to be incorrect, leading to further charges Erl and Nerudia acquisitions are included in note 11. or releases of provisions as circumstances dictate.
The main area of estimation risk relates to the estimation INCOME TAXES of restructuring provisions associated with various plans to Judgement is involved in determining whether the Group transform the business, these include the cost of factory closures, is subject to a tax liability or not in line with tax law.
Where scaling down of capacity and other structural changes to the liabilities exist estimation is often required to determine the business.
These programmes are run as discreet projects with potential future tax payments.
controls over the expected costs and the associated accounting The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions and impacts.
The calculation of restructuring provisions includes significant judgement is required in determining the provision for estimation challenges relating to asset remediation costs, the tax.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the valuation of disposals and termination costs.
More details ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises relating to the estimates associated with these restructuring provisions for tax based on estimates of the taxes that are likely programmes can be found in notes 5 and 23. to become due.
Where the final tax outcome is different from CONTROL OF LOGISTA the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current income tax and deferred tax provisions in the A key judgement relates to whether the Group has effective period in which such determination is made.
Consideration of the control of Logista sufficient that the Group can consolidate this judgements surrounding certain tax positions are applicable to the entity within its Group accounts in line with the requirements Group and consideration of the valuation estimates related to tax of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
Following the provisions are given in note 8 to these financial statements.
current year reduction in the shareholding interest in Logista, the Group now holds 50.01 per cent of the voting shares.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND DISPUTES TheGroup has reviewed its control of Logista.
The Group The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following developments continues to have Director presence on the Board of Logista in the legal proceedings at each balance sheet date, considering with the ability to exercise voting control where necessary and the nature of the litigation, claim or assessment: the legal has therefore concluded that it continues to be appropriate to processes and potential level of damages in the jurisdiction in recognise Logista as a fully consolidated subsidiary.
which the litigation, claim or assessment has been brought: 94 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS is adjusted operating profit.
SEGMENT INFORMATION is not provided to the Board or the Chief Executive.
Our reportable Imperial Brands comprises two distinct businesses Tobacco & segments are Growth Markets which includes premium cigar and NGP and Distribution.
The Tobacco & NGP business comprises the Fontem Ventures, USA, Returns Markets North, Returns Markets manufacture, marketing and sale of Tobacco & NGP and Tobacco & South and Distribution.
Prevailing market characteristics such NGP-related products, including sales to but not by the Distribution as maturity, excise structure and the breadth of the distribution business.
The Distribution business comprises the distribution of networks determine the allocation of Returns Markets between Tobacco & NGP products for Tobacco & NGP product manufacturers, Returns Markets North and Returns Markets South.
including Imperial Brands, as well as a wide range of non-Tobacco & NGP products and services.
The Distribution business is run on Operating segments are considered to be business markets.
The an operationally neutral basis ensuring all customers are treated main Tobacco & NGP business markets within the Growth, Returns equally, and consequently transactions between the Tobacco & NGP Markets North and Returns Markets South reportable segments are: and Distribution businesses are undertaken on an arms length basis reflecting market prices for comparable goods and services.
Growth Markets Iraq, Italy, Japan, Norway, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan also includes premium cigar and Fontem Ventures : The Tobacco & NGP business is managed based on the strategic role Returns Markets North Australia, Belgium, Germany, Netherlands, of groups of markets rather than their geographic proximity, with divisions focused on prioritising growth or returns.
Returns Markets Poland, United Kingdom: and are typically mature markets where we have relatively large market Returns Markets South France, Spain and our African markets shares and our objective is to maximise returns over the long-term including Algeria, Ivory Coast, Morocco.
by growing profits while actively managing market share.
Growth Markets are mainly large profit or volume pools where we typically Our focus on NGP and the growth opportunity this provides across have market shares below 15 per cent and where our total Tobacco all our markets means that our current segmental descriptors of & NGP approach provides many opportunities for share and profit Growth and Returns are no longer applicable.
As a result of an growth both now and in the future.
Following the 2015 acquisition, internal reorganisation, our segmental reporting for our tobacco the USA has become a significant market and is therefore and NGP businesses for the year ending 30 September 2019 will disclosed separately.
be changed to: Europe, Americas and Africa, Asia & Australasia.
These three regions will include all tobacco and NGP sales in their The function of Chief Operating Decision Maker defined in IFRS8, respective geographies, reflecting the new way we run the business.
which is to review performance and allocate resources, is performed At the same time, blu will be reclassified as a Growth Brand, by the Board and the Chief Executive, who are regularly provided reinforcing our global ambitions for the brand, and all NGP revenue with information on our segments.
This information is used as the and profit, currently reported in Growth Markets, will be included basis of the segment revenue and profit disclosures provided below.
within the countries and segments where the sales occur.
We will The main profit measure used by the Board and the Chief Executive also separately disclose our NGP revenue.
TOBACCO & NGP million unless otherwise indicated 2018 2017 Revenue 22,885 22,786 Net revenue 7,730 7,757 Operating profit 2,282 2,199 Adjusted operating profit 3,557 3,595 Adjusted operating margin % 46.0 46.3 DISTRIBUTION million unless otherwise indicated 2018 2017 Revenue 8,383 8,269 Distribution fees 989 914 Operating profit 128 94 Adjusted operating profit 212 181 Adjusted operating margin % 21.4 19.8 REVENUE 2018 2017 Total External Total External million revenue revenue revenue revenue Tobacco & NGP Growth Markets 3,754 3,686 3,665 3,602 USA 2,971 2,971 3,125 3,125 Returns Markets North 13,698 13,689 13,533 13,503 Returns Markets South 2,462 1,795 2,463 1,748 Total Tobacco & NGP 22,885 22,141 22,786 21,978 Distribution 8,383 8,383 8,269 8,269 Eliminations 744 808 Total Group 30,524 30,524 30,247 30,247 www.
com 95 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 3.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED RECONCILIATION FROM TOBACCO & NGP REVENUE TO TOBACCO & NGP NET REVENUE million 2018 2017 Revenue 22,885 22,786 Duty and similar items 15,125 14,967 Sale of peripheral products 30 62 Net Revenue 7,730 7,757 TOBACCO & NGP NET REVENUE million 2018 2017 Growth Markets 1,795 1,768 USA 1,671 1,665 Returns Markets North 2,749 2,755 Returns Markets South 1,515 1,569 Total Tobacco & NGP 7,730 7,757 ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT AND RECONCILIATION TO PROFIT BEFORE TAX million 2018 2017 Tobacco & NGP Growth Markets 364 411 USA 1,040 1,013 Returns Markets North 1,507 1,485 Returns Markets South 646 686 Total Tobacco & NGP 3,557 3,595 Distribution 212 181 Eliminations 3 15 Adjusted operating profit 3,766 3,761 Amortisation of acquired intangibles Tobacco & NGP 970 1,005 Amortisation of acquired intangibles Distribution 83 87 Administration of UK distributor 110 Restructuring costs Tobacco & NGP 196 391 Operating profit 2,407 2,278 Net finance costs 626 450 Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method 42 33 Profit before tax 1,823 1,861 On 28 November 2017 Palmer & Harvey P&H announced that they had entered administration.
As a result P&H receivables of 104million have been written off and a provision has been made of 6 million in the current year financial statements in respect ofloan and receivables monies considered irrecoverable.
There has been no significant disruption to UK operations as well-prepared contingency plans ensured that the on-going supply to retail customers was unaffected.
OTHER INFORMATION 2018 2017 Additions Additions to property, Depreciation to property, Depreciation plant and and software plant and and software million equipment amortisation equipment amortisation Tobacco & NGP Growth Markets 65 41 53 42 USA 52 33 36 38 Returns Markets North 54 71 54 70 Returns Markets South 44 33 29 41 Total Tobacco & NGP 215 178 172 191 Distribution 39 34 19 32 Total Group 254 212 191 223 96 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS ADDITIONAL GEOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS External revenue and non-current assets are presented for the UK and for individually significant countries.
The Groups products are sold in over 160 countries.
2018 2017 External Non-current External Non-current million revenue assets revenue assets UK 4,189 109 4,243 83 Germany 3,871 3,351 3,841 3,401 France 3,587 2,597 3,711 2,720 USA 3,154 7,037 3,299 7,356 Other 15,723 8,759 15,153 8,853 Total Group 30,524 21,853 30,247 22,413 Non-current assets comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and investments accounted for using the equity method.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting : million 2018 2017 Raw materials and consumables used 927 915 Changes in inventories of finished goods Tobacco & NGP 2,410 2,341 Changes in inventories of finished goods Distribution 5,520 5,499 Depreciation and impairment of fixed assets 176 233 Amortisation of intangible assets 1,090 1,131 Operating lease charges 57 52 Net foreign exchange losses gains 52 44 Write down of inventories 28 45 Profit on disposal of assets and brands 76 24 Impairment of trade receivables 9 4 ANALYSIS OF FEES PAYABLES TO  LLP AND ITS ASSOCIATES million 2018 2017 Audit of Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 1.2 0.8 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 4.2 4.3 Audit of joint venture entities 0.4 0.4 Audit related assurance services 0.3 0.3 6.1 5.8 Other services 0.2 0.2 6.3 6.0 In addition to the above,  LLP audit the individual pension schemes in the UK and Ireland.
Fees for these audits total 53.2 thousand 2017: 52.8 thousand.
com 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 5.
RESTRUCTURING COSTS million 2018 2017 Employment related 170 244 Asset impairments 3 79 Other charges 23 68 196 391 Restructuring costs analysed by workstream: million 2018 2017 Cost optimisation programme 181 383 Acquisition integration costs 15 4 Other restructuring activities 4 196 391 The cost optimisation programme Phase I announced in 2013 and Phase II announced in November 2016 is part of the Groups change in strategic direction to achieve a unique, non-recurring and fundamental transformation of the business.
The costs of factory closures and implementation of a standardised operating model are considered to be one off as they are a permanent scaling down of capacity and a once in a generation transformational change respectively.
The cost optimisation programme is a discrete, time bound project which, given its scale, will be delivered over a number of years and once delivered the associated restructuring costs will cease.
Costs of implementing cost savings that do not arise from the change in strategic direction are excluded from restructuring costs.
Cost optimisation programme costs of 181 million 2017: 383 million comprise 56 million incurred in restructuring our product manufacturing activities including France, Morocco, Russia and the US, and 125 million in respect of restructuring overheads mainly by implementing a standardised operating model.
Of the remaining 15 million 2017: 8 million, 13 million of post-acquisition integration costs were in respect of the Nerudia acquisition and 2 million 2017: 4 million of post-acquisition integration costs were in respect of the assets acquired from Lorillard in 2015, 2017: 4 million was in respect of pre-2013 restructuring.
Cost optimisation programme Phase I is expected to have a cash implementation cost in the region of 600 million in respect of the savings of 300 million per annum that the programme has generated by 2018 the last year of the programme, and Phase II is expected to have a cash implementation cost in the region of 750 million, generating savings of a further 300 million per annum by 2020.
In 2018 the cash cost of Phase I of the programme was 43 million 2017: 42 million and 173 million 2017: 132 million for Phase II, bringing the cumulative net cash cost of the programme to 826 million Phase I 521 million, Phase II 305 million.
The total restructuring cash spend in the year was 241 million 2017: 201 million.
Restructuring costs are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement.
DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES EMPLOYMENT COSTS million 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 836 856 Social security costs 173 173 Other pension costs note 22 90 Share-based payments note 25 26 27 1,125 1,056 Details of Directors emoluments and interests, and of key management compensation which represent related party transactions requiring disclosure under IAS 24, are provided within the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report, on pages 56-75 includes details on salary, benefits, pension and share plans.
These disclosures form part of the financial statements.
NUMBER OF PEOPLE EMPLOYED BY THE GROUP DURING THE YEAR 2018 2017 At 30 At 30 September Average September Average Tobacco & NGP 27,100 27,200 27,800 27,900 Distribution 6,200 6,100 6,000 6,000 33,300 33,300 33,800 33,900 98 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS NUMBER OF PEOPLE EMPLOYED BY THE GROUP BY LOCATION DURING THE YEAR 2018 2017 At 30 At 30 September Average September Average European Union 15,700 15,400 15,500 15,600 Americas 8,600 8,500 8,600 8,500 Rest of the World 9,000 9,400 9,700 9,800 33,300 33,300 33,800 33,900 7.
NET FINANCE COSTS RECONCILIATION FROM REPORTED NET FINANCE COSTS TO ADJUSTED NET FINANCE COSTS million 2018 2017 Reported net finance costs 626 450 Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments 492 744 Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 567 679 Exchange losses gains on financing activities 51 47 Net fair value and exchange losses gains on financial instruments 126 112 Interest income on net defined benefit assets note 22 129 107 Interest cost on net defined benefit liabilities note 22 142 132 Post-employment benefits net financing cost 13 25 Adjusted net finance costs 487 537 Comprising Interest on bank deposits 10 12 Interest on bank and other loans 497 549 Adjusted net finance costs 487 537 8.
TAX ANALYSIS OF CHARGE IN THE YEAR million 2018 2017 Current tax UK corporation tax 55 97 Overseas tax 367 367 Total current tax 422 464 Deferred tax movement 26 50 Total tax charged to the consolidated income statement 396 414 RECONCILIATION FROM REPORTED TAX TO ADJUSTED TAX The table below shows the tax impact of the adjustments made to reported profit before tax in order to arrive at the adjusted measure of earnings disclosed in note 10. million 2018 2017 Reported tax 396 414 Deferred tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles 196 228 Administration of UK distributor 21 Tax on net fair value and exchange movements on financial instruments 22 14 Tax on post-employment benefits net financing cost 5 7 Tax on restructuring costs 55 121 Deferred tax impact of US tax reforms 29 Tax on unrecognised losses 76 105 Adjusted tax charge 648 651 The use of adjusted measures is explained in note 1, Accounting Policies Use of Adjusted Measures.
com 99 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 8.
TAX CONTINUED FACTORS AFFECTING THE TAX CHARGE FOR THE YEAR The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the average of the enacted UK corporation tax rates for the year of 19.0 per cent 2017: 19.5 per cent as follows: million 2018 2017 Profit before tax 1,823 1,861 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate 346 363 Tax effects of: Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings 44 47 Movement in provision for uncertain tax positions 10 22 Remeasurement of deferred tax balances 51 4 Remeasurement of deferred tax balances arising from changes in tax rates 68 93 Deferred tax on unremitted earnings 26 42 Permanent differences 66 120 Adjustments in respect of prior years 9 3 Total tax charged to the consolidated income statement 396 414 Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings represents the impact of worldwide profits being taxed at rates different from 19.0 per cent.
The effective tax rate benefits from internal financing arrangements between Group subsidiaries in different countries which are subject to differing tax rates and legislation and the application of double taxation treaties.
Remeasurement of deferred tax balances includes 35 million 2017: nil in relation to the fide-recognition of deferred tax assets for tax losses in the Groups Dutch business.
The Groups assessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets is based on a review of underlying performance of subsidiaries, changes in tax legislation and the interpretation thereof and changes in the Group structure.
Remeasurement of deferred tax balances arising from changes in tax rates includes 29 million 2017: nil in relation to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities on US liabilities and assets following the enactment of tax rate reductions and 39 million 2017: 93 million in relation to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities on French assets following the enactment of future tax rate reductions which will be effective for the Group from 1 October 2019.
During the year the Group has provided for deferred tax on unremitted earnings of 26 million 2017: 42 million.
The tax will arise on the distribution of profits through the Group and on planned Group simplification.
Permanent differences include 5 million 2017: 10 million in respect of non-deductible exchange losses and 26 million 2017: 29million in respect of non-deductible interest expense and nil 2017: 57 million in respect of taxable disposals of assets intra-group.
MOVEMENT ON THE CURRENT TAX ACCOUNT million 2018 2017 At 1 October 123 239 Charged to the consolidated income statement 422 464 Credited to equity 1 3 Cash paid 407 570 Exchange movements 3 2 Other movements 12 5 At 30 September 122 123 The cash tax paid in the year is 15 million lower than the current tax charge 2017: 106 million higher.
This arises as a result of timing differences between the accrual of income taxes and the actual payment of cash and the movement in the provision for uncertain tax positions.
Analysed as: million 2018 2017 Assets 164 69 Liabilities 286 192 122 123 UNCERTAIN TAX POSITIONS As an international business the Group is exposed to uncertain tax positions and changes in legislation in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Groups uncertain tax positions principally include cross border transfer pricing, interpretation of new or complex tax legislation and tax arising on the valuation of assets.
Provisions arising from uncertain tax positions taken in the calculation of tax assets and liabilities are included within current tax liabilities.
At 30 September 2018 the total value of these provisions, including foreign exchange movements, was 202 million 2017:190 million.
It is possible that amounts paid will be different from the amounts provided.
100 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Management have assessed the Groups provision for uncertain tax positions and have concluded that apart from the French matter referred to below, the provisions in place are not material individually or in aggregate, and that a reasonably possible change in the next financial year would not have a material impact to the results of the Group.
In November 2015 the Group received a challenge from the French tax authorities that could lead to additional tax liabilities of up to 250million.
The challenge concerns the valuation placed on the shares of Altadis Distribution France now known as Logista France following an intra-group transfer of the shares in October 2012 and the tax consequences flowing from a potentially higher value that is argued for by the tax authorities.
In September 2018 the dispute was heard before the Commission Nationale, an independent adjudication body, whose decision is advisory only.
In October 2018 the Commission issued its report which is favourable to the Groups position.
A meeting is being arranged with the French tax authorities to discuss the status of the French tax authoritys challenge following the report.
At this time it is appropriate to maintain the 42 million 2017: 42 million held in the provision for uncertain tax positions in respect of this matter.
The Group continues to monitor developments in relation to EU State Aid investigations.
If the EU Commission confirms its preliminary finding of State Aid in respect of the UKs Controlled Foreign Company regime and this is ultimately upheld through the judicial process the Group considers that the amount of additional tax payable would be between nil and 300 million depending on the basis of calculation.
Based upon advice taken the Group does not consider any provision is required in relation to this investigation or any other EU State Aid investigation.
The assessment of uncertain tax positions is subjective and significant management judgement is required.
This judgement is based on interpretation of legislation, management experience and professional advice.
In 2017 new legislation was introduced, prospectively limiting the amount of production that could take place prior to new excise tax increases.
On 28 September 2018, the Russian tax authorities issued a preliminary tax audit report for the calendar years 2014-2016 seeking to assess retrospectively additional excise and VAT with associated interest and penalties of approximately 132 million in respect of pre-production prior to new excise duty increases.
In the event that the Russian tax authorities were to apply the same ruling to 2017, the Group estimates further excise and VAT with associated interest and penalties of 74 million could be assessed.
The Group believe they have strong grounds for objecting to the preliminary report and are preparing a defence.
The Group has complied with this legislation since it became effective.
The Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of any provision until its objections to the preliminary report have been discussed with the Russian tax authorities, and furthermore, disclosure of a provision could be prejudicial.
DIVIDENDS DISTRIBUTIONS TO ORDINARY EQUITY HOLDERS million 2018 2017 2016 Paid interim of 56.87 pence per share 2017: 111.21 pence, 2016: 101.1 pence Paid June 2016 225 Paid September 2016 225 Paid December 2016 517 Paid June 2017 247 Paid September 2017 247 Paid December 2017 567 Paid June 2018 271 Paid September 2018 271 Interim dividend paid 542 1,061 967 Proposed interim of 65.46 pence per share 2017: nil, 2016: nil To be paid December 2018 624 Interim dividend proposed 624 Proposed final of 65.46 pence per share 2017: 59.51 pence, 2016: 54.1 pence Paid March 2017 517 Paid March 2018 567 To be paid March 2019 624 Final dividend 624 567 517 Total ordinary share dividends of 187.79 pence per share 2017: 170.72 pence, 2016: 155.2 pence 1,790 1,628 1,484 The third interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2018 of 65.46 pence per share amounts to a proposed dividend of 624 million, which will be paid in December 2018.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2018 of 65.46 pence per share amounts to a proposed dividend payment of 624 million in March 2019 based on the number of shares ranking for dividend at 30 September 2018, and is subject to shareholder approval.
If approved, the total dividend paid in respect of 2018 will be 1,790 million 2017: 1,628 million.
The dividend paid during 2018 is 1,676 million 2017: 1,528 million.
com 101 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 10.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares held to satisfy the Groups employee share schemes and shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares.
Diluted earnings per share have been calculated by taking into account the weighted average number of shares that would be issued if rights held under the employee share schemes were exercised.
Noinstruments have been excluded from the calculation for any period on the grounds that they are anti-dilutive.
million 2018 2017 Earnings: basic and diluted attributable to owners of the Parent Company 1,368 1,409 Millions of shares Weighted average number of shares: Shares for basic earnings per share 952.4 954.6 Potentially dilutive share options 3.0 2.3 Shares for diluted earnings per share 955.4 956.9 Pence Basic earnings per share 143.6 147.6 Diluted earnings per share 143.2 147.2 RECONCILIATION FROM REPORTED TO ADJUSTED EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER SHARE 2018 2017 Earnings Earnings per share per share million unless otherwise indicated pence Earnings pence Earnings Reported basic 143.6 1,368 147.6 1,409 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 90.0 857 90.5 864 Administration of UK distributor 9.3 89 Net fair value and exchange movements on financial instruments 10.9 104 10.3 98 Post-employment benefits net financing cost 0.8 8 1.9 18 Restructuring costs 14.9 141 28.3 270 Deferred tax impact of US tax reforms 3.0 29 Tax on unrecognised losses 8.0 76 11.0 105 Adjustments above attributable to non-controlling interests 2.3 22 2.0 19 Adjusted 272.2 2,592 267.0 2,549 Adjusted diluted 271.3 2,592 266.4 2,549 102 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 11.
Amortisation of acquired intangibles excluded from adjusted operating profit comprises amortisation on intellectual property of 941 million 2017: 982 million and amortisation on supply agreements of 112 million 2017: 110 million.
No adjustment is made for amortisation on internally generated intellectual property of 1 million 2017:1 million.
com 103 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 11.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Intellectual property mainly comprises brands acquired in the USA in 2015 and through the purchases of Altadis in 2008 and Commonwealth Brands in 2007.
Supply agreements include Distribution customer relationships and exclusive supply arrangements in Cuba.
All were acquired as part of the Altadis purchase.
Intangible amortisation and impairment are included within administrative and other expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Amortisation and impairment in respect of intangible assets other than software and internally generated intellectual property are treated as reconciling items between reported operating profit and adjusted operating profit.
ACQUISITIONS For each acquisition, an exercise to value the net assets and apportion the consideration has taken place and the values have been recognised in the year end accounts.
We engaged external consultants to assist in the valuation of the intangible assets, which make up the most significant element of the assets acquired and have been valued using the income method.
Adjustments to provisional fair values are made up to 12 months from the original acquisition date with any revisions to contingent consideration or asset values being adjusted through goodwill.
Goodwill represents the value of the accumulated workforces and synergies expected to be realised following the acquisition.
VON ERL On 14 June 2017 Imperials subsidiary, Fontem Ventures B. V. completed the acquisition of 50 per cent plus one share of Von Erl Gmbh for an initial cash consideration of 17 million plus an estimated contingent consideration of 15 million payable on performance measures being achieved.
There are also amounts payable as contingent consideration to purchase additional share capital of 40per cent which is based on future product sales.
The payment is capped at a maximum of 200 million.
In August 2018 a payment of 3million was made under this forward contract to purchase an additional 10 per cent of the share capital, taking the total shareholding to 60per cent.
Following the completion of the measurement period, values for consideration of 32 million and acquired net liabilities of 4 million, including intangible assets of 18 million and goodwill of 36 million, have been recognised based on the valuation conditions existing at the acquisition date.
The value of the contingent consideration will be reassessed at each future reporting point.
The acquisition builds on Imperials strategy of developing non-tobacco consumer experiences.
NERUDIA On 23 October 2017, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the share capital of Nerudia Limited for an estimated total cash consideration of 86 million, comprised of an initial consideration of 64 million plus an estimated contingent consideration of 22 million.
Themaximum amount of contingent consideration payable is 42 million with the amount payable based on certain performance targets being met.
Following the completion of the measurement period, values for consideration of 86 million and acquired net assets of 35 million, including intangible assets of 36 million and goodwill of 51 million, have been recognised based on the valuation conditions existing at the acquisition date.
Nerudia Limited is a nicotine products and services group with a strong track record of developing innovative e-vapour and nicotine products.
The acquisition further strengthens our portfolio of intellectual property assets and our research and development capabilities across the entire next generation product landscape.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSET IMPAIRMENT REVIEW Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
For the Tobacco & NGP business CGUs are based on the markets where the business operates and are grouped in line with the divisional structure in operation during the year.
The groupings represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
A summary of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives is set out below.
2018 2017 Intangible Intangible assets with assets with indefinite indefinite million Goodwill lives Goodwill lives Returns Markets North 4,498 202 4,471 200 Returns Markets South 1,698 106 1,685 105 Growth 2,112 299 2,022 295 USA 2,412 2,351 Tobacco & NGP 10,720 607 10,529 600 Distribution 1,743 1,736 12,463 607 12,265 600 Goodwill has arisen principally on the acquisitions of Reemtsma in 2002 all CGU groupings, Commonwealth Brands in 2007 USA, Altadis in 2008 all CGU groupings and ITG Brands in 2015 USA.
104 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are any indications that impairment may have arisen.
The value of a CGU, or group of CGUs as appropriate, is based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections derived from financial plans which are based on detailed bottom-up market-by-market forecasts of projected sales volumes for each product line.
These forecasts reflect, on an individual market basis, numerous assumptions and estimates regarding anticipated changes in market size, prices and duty regimes, consumer uptrading and downtrading, consumer preferences and other changes in product mix, based on long-term market trends, market data, anticipated regulatory developments, and management experience and expectations.
We consider that pricing, market size, market shares and cost inflation are the key assumptions used in our plans.
GROWTH RATES AND DISCOUNT RATES USED The compound annual growth rates implicit in these value-in-use calculations are shown below.
2018 Pre-tax Initial growth Long-term % discount rate rate growth rate Returns Markets North 9.1 3.3 1.8 Returns Markets South 12.9 4.3 1.8 Growth Markets 7.318.1 10.5 1.47.0 USA 8.7 3.9 2.5 Distribution 9.2 5.2 1.8 Cash flows from the business plan period are extrapolated out to year five using the implicit growth rate, shown in the table above as the initial growth rate.
Estimated long-term weighted average compound growth rates of between 1.4 per cent and 7.0 per cent are used beyond year five.
Long-term growth rates are based on managements long-term expectations, taking account of industry specific factors such as the nature of our products, the role of excise in government fiscal policy, and relatively stable and predictable long-term macro trends in the Tobacco industry.
Discount rates used are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the different risk profiles of the CGUs.
Our impairment projections are prepared under the basis set out in IAS 36 which can differ from our internal plans.
The cash flows recognised relate to tobacco product sales and do not currently include the potential benefits of future NGP launches.
GROWTH MARKETS Within our Growth Markets reporting segment, there are a number of CGU groupings based on our operating segments, including Drive Growth and Other Premium Cigar.
The Drive Growth CGU grouping includes our markets in Russia, Italy, Japan and Turkey.
Our impairment test for this CGU grouping indicated headroom of 164 million.
However, the level of headroom remains sensitive to changes to individual assumptions which influences the on-going impairment risk.
Russia is a major market in this CGU grouping.
Following various strategic investments which took place in the prior year and a more favourable pricing environment, market share and profitability expectations have now improved, with corresponding benefits for future net cashflows.
Our forecast for the next five years is based on the expectation of an on-going, steady, market recovery.
The benefits arise from our actions to restructure the business and improved market conditions.
The impairment test assumed a post-tax discount rate of 13.0 per cent 2017: 12.5 per cent for the Russian market reflecting our view of current macroeconomic factors.
The long-term growth rate of 4.0 percent has remained consistent with the prior year.
Any one or combination of the following changes in assumptions in the Russian CGU could represent a reasonably possible scenario: 100 basis point increase in the post-tax Russian Discount rate headroom reduction of 53 million 10 per cent reduction in Russian cash flows headroom reduction of 58 million 10 per cent devaluation of the Russian rouble headroom reduction of 53 million We are forecasting an improved outlook for the other markets within the CGU grouping.
Japan is expected to achieve sufficient volume and pricing growth that will deliver significant growth in net cashflows.
We are forecasting strong growth for Japanese cashflows for the period through to 2023.
A 10 per cent reduction in Japanese cashflows would reduce headroom by 10 million.
Our impairment testing confirms there are sufficient future cash flows to support the current carrying values.
Taking account of these factors, we have concluded that the carrying value for the Drive Growth CGU grouping included in our 30 September 2018 balance sheet is appropriate, but remains sensitive to adverse movements in any individual assumption or assumptions.
NGP sales in these markets represent a material opportunity for our business and these opportunities are currently being actively pursued.
The NGP opportunities in these markets calculated on a fair value less costs of disposal basis would be at least 200 million.
Our current headroom calculation for the Drive Growth CGU impairment review only assumes Tobacco cash flows and excludes NGP cash inflows, however the future inclusion of NGP cash flows will be considered as these businesses develop.
OTHER CGU GROUPINGS For the rest of the Group, any reasonable movement in the assumptions used in the impairment tests would not result in an impairment.
com 105 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 12.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 2018 Fixtures Plant and and motor million Property equipment vehicles Total Cost At 1 October 2017 960 1,989 408 3,357 Additions 10 183 58 251 Acquisitions 1 2 3 Disposals 63 153 31 247 Reclassifications 2 4 2 Exchange movements 3 12 1 10 At 30 September 2018 909 2,013 432 3,354 Depreciation and impairment At 1 October 2017 164 1,051 277 1,492 Depreciation charge for the year 19 127 30 176 Impairment Disposals 14 153 28 195 Reclassifications Exchange movements 9 1 10 At 30 September 2018 169 1,016 278 1,463 Net book value At 30 September 2018 740 997 154 1,891 2017 Fixtures Plant and and motor million Property equipment vehicles Total Cost At 1 October 2016 1,012 2,106 390 3,508 Additions 7 146 38 191 Disposals 72 286 19 377 Reclassifications 4 3 4 3 Exchange movements 9 20 3 32 At 30 September 2017 960 1,989 408 3,357 Depreciation and impairment At 1 October 2016 180 1,111 258 1,549 Depreciation charge for the year 17 134 34 185 Impairment 2 45 1 48 Disposals 40 253 18 311 Reclassifications 1 2 1 2 Exchange movements 4 12 3 19 At 30 September 2017 164 1,051 277 1,492 Net book value At 30 September 2017 796 938 131 1,865 106 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 13.
INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD The principal joint ventures are Corporacin Habanos SA, Cuba and Altabana SL, Spain.
Summarised financial information for the joint venture entities, which are accounted for by the Group under the equity method, is shown below: 2018 Corporacin Global Horizon million Habanos Altabana Ventures Others Total Revenue 196 325 33 65 619 Profit after tax 39 48 4 9 100 Non-current assets 468 18 24 14 524 Current assets 89 225 33 64 411 Total assets 557 243 57 78 935 Current liabilities 107 60 3 38 208 Non-current liabilities 22 5 7 34 Total liabilities 129 65 3 45 242 Net assets 428 178 54 33 693 2017 Corporacin Global Horizon million Habanos Altabana Ventures Others Total Revenue 184 308 3 67 562 Profit after tax 27 46 6 79 Non-current assets 449 15 24 13 501 Current assets 73 206 29 60 368 Total assets 522 221 53 73 869 Current liabilities 79 52 6 41 178 Non-current liabilities 20 5 5 30 Total liabilities 99 57 6 46 208 Net assets 423 164 47 27 661 TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES WITH JOINT VENTURES million 2018 2017 Sales to 90 81 Purchases from 107 92 Accounts receivable from 13 11 Accounts payable to 18 13 MOVEMENT ON INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD million 2018 2017 At 1 October 785 744 Profit for the year from joint ventures and associates 42 33 Increase in investment in joint ventures 38 Increase in investment in associates 10 2 Dividends 17 16 Foreign exchange 25 16 At 30 September 845 785 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements came into effect for the Group from 1 October 2014.
As a result of this standard the profit and loss items from joint ventures are shown in the consolidated income statement below net finance costs as Share of investments accounted for using the equity method.
Similarly, the asset and liability amounts are classified as Investments accounted for using the equitymethod.
com 107 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 14.
INVENTORIES million 2018 2017 Raw materials 908 970 Work in progress 78 54 Finished inventories 2,520 2,349 Other inventories 186 231 3,692 3,604 Other inventories mainly comprise duty-paid tax stamps.
It is generally recognised industry practice to classify leaf tobacco inventory as a current asset although part of such inventory, because of the duration of the processing cycle, ordinarily would not be consumed within one year.
We estimate that around 139 million 2017: 181 million of leaf tobacco held within raw materials will not be utilised within a year of the balance sheet date.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2018 2017 million Current Non-current Current Non-current Trade receivables 2,370 5 2,366 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 61 5 58 Net trade receivables 2,309 2,308 Other receivables 119 74 54 111 Prepayments and accrued income 157 8 177 12 2,585 82 2,539 123 Trade receivables may be analysed as follows: 2018 2017 million Current Non-current Current Non-current Within credit terms 2,119 2,179 Past due by less than 3 months 107 93 Past due by more than 3 months 83 36 Amounts that are impaired 61 5 58 2,370 5 2,366 16.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS million 2018 2017 Cash at bank and in hand 771 599 Short-term deposits and other liquid assets 4 25 775 624 221 million 2017: 143 million of total cash and cash equivalents is held in countries in which prior approval is required to transfer the funds abroad.
Nevertheless, if the Group complies with these requirements, such liquid funds are at its disposition within a reasonable period of time.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2018 2017 million Current Non-current Current Non-current Trade payables 1,198 1,245 Duties payable 4,808 4,837 Other taxes and social security contributions 1,436 1,256 Other payables 174 163 Accruals and deferred income 654 47 603 21 8,270 47 8,104 21 108 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 18.
BORROWINGS The Groups borrowings held at amortised cost, are as follows.
Interest payable on capital market issuances are at fixed rates of interest and interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts are at floating rates of interest.
On 12 February 2018, $1,250 million 2.05 per cent notes were repaid.
On 5 July 2018, 850 million 4.5 per cent notes were repaid.
On 20 July 2018, $500 million 2.05 per cent notes were repaid.
All borrowings are unsecured and the Group has not defaulted on any borrowings during the year 2017: no defaults.
com 109 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 18.
BORROWINGS CONTINUED NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Groups non-current liabilities as at 30 September 2018 including net derivative financial instruments detailed in note 20 is as follows: 2018 2017 Net derivative Net derivative financial financial liabilities liabilities million Borrowings assets Total Borrowings assets Total Amounts maturing: Between one and two years 1,656 4 1,660 720 47 767 Between two and five years 4,128 123 4,251 4,951 196 5,147 In five years or more 3,814 484 4,298 4,525 340 4,865 9,598 611 10,209 10,196 583 10,779 FAIR VALUE OF BORROWINGS The fair value of borrowings as at 30 September 2018 is estimated to be 12,484 million 2017: 13,530 million.
12,337 million 2017: 13,245 million relates to capital market issuance and has been determined by reference to market prices as at the balance sheet date.
A comparison of the carrying amount and fair value of capital market issuance by currency is provided below.
The fair value of all other borrowings is considered to equal their carrying amount.
2018 2017 Balance sheet Balance sheet million amount Fair value amount Fair value GBP 3,405 3,861 3,403 4,085 EUR 4,598 4,681 3,806 3,984 USD 3,845 3,795 5,055 5,176 Total capital market issuance 11,848 12,337 12,264 13,245 UNDRAWN BORROWING FACILITIES At 30 September the Group had the following undrawn committed facilities: million 2018 2017 Amounts maturing: In less than one year Between one and two years 1,040 Between two and five years 3,016 3,000 4,056 3,000 During the year four new bilateral facilities for a total 1,173 million were arranged.
FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW In the normal course of business, the Group is exposed to financial risks including, but not limited to, market, credit and liquidity risk.
This note explains the Groups exposure to these risks, how they are measured and assessed, and summarises the policies and processes used to manage them, including those related to the management of capital.
The Group operates a centralised treasury function which is responsible for the management of the financial risks of the Group, together with its financing and liquidity requirements.
Financial risks comprise, but are not limited to, exposures to funding and liquidity, interest rate, foreign exchange and counterparty credit risk.
The treasury function is also responsible for the financial risk management of the Groups global defined benefit pension schemes and management of Group-wide insurance programs.
Thetreasury function does not operate as a profit centre, nor does it enter into speculative transactions.
The Groups treasury activities are overseen by the Treasury Committee, which meets when required and comprises the Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer and other senior management from finance and treasury.
The Treasury Committee operates in accordance with the terms of reference set out by the Board and a framework theTreasury Committee framework which sets out the expectations and boundaries to assist in the effective oversight of treasuryactivities.
The Director of Treasury reports on a regular basis to the Treasury Committee.
The Board reviews and approves all major treasury decisions.
110 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The Groups management of financial risks cover the following: A MARKET RISK PRICE RISK The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk other than assets held by its pension funds disclosed in note 22.
The Group is exposed to commodity price risk in that there may be fluctuations in the price of tobacco leaf.
As with other agricultural commodities, the price of tobacco leaf tends to be cyclical as supply and demand considerations influence tobacco plantings in those countries where tobacco is grown.
Also, different regions may experience variations in weather patterns that may affect crop quality or supply and so lead to changes in price.
The Group seeks to reduce this price risk by sourcing tobacco leaf from a number of different countries and counterparties and by varying the levels of tobacco leaf held.
Currently, these techniques reduce the expected exposure to this risk over the short to medium term to levels considered not material and accordingly, no sensitivity analysis has been presented.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates due to its commercial trading transactions and profits denominated in foreign currencies, as well as the translation of cash, borrowings and derivatives held in non-functional currencies.
The Groups financial results are principally exposed to fluctuations in euro and US dollar exchange rates.
Management of the Groups foreign exchange transaction and translation risk is addressed below.
TRANSACTION RISK The Groups material transaction exposures arise on costs denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of subsidiaries, including the purchase of tobacco leaf, which is sourced from various countries but purchased principally in US dollars, and packaging materials which are sourced from various countries and purchased in a number of currencies.
The Group is also exposed to transaction foreign exchange risk on the conversion of foreign subsidiary earnings into sterling to fund the external dividends to shareholders.
This is managed by selling euros and US dollars monthly throughout the year.
Other foreign currency flows are matched where possible and remaining foreign currency transaction exposures are not hedged.
TRANSLATION RISK The Group seeks to broadly match the currency of borrowings to the currency of its underlying investments in overseas subsidiaries, which are primarily euros and US dollars.
The Group issues debt in the most appropriate market or markets at the time of raising new finance and has a policy of using derivative financial instruments, cross-currency swaps, to change the currency of debt as required.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into foreign currencies to match the Groups investments in overseas subsidiaries are treated as a hedge against the net investment where appropriate.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The Groups sensitivity to foreign exchange rate movements, which impacts the translation of monetary items held by subsidiary companies in currencies other than their functional currencies, is illustrated on an indicative basis below.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that net debt and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies remain constant, and that there is no change to the net investment hedge designations in place at 30 September 2018.
The sensitivity analysis does not reflect any change to revenue or non-finance costs that may result from changing exchange rates, and ignores any taxation implications and offsetting effects of movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
In February 2018 the Group completed a subsidiary simplification exercise which resulted in a decrease in the foreign currency income statement sensitivity of the Group.
2018 2017 Increase in Increase in million income income Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures: 10% appreciation of euro 2017: 10% 127 491 10% appreciation of US dollar 2017: 10% 83 111 An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause a decrease in income of 155 million and 102 million for euro and US dollar exchange rates respectively 2017: 600 million and 136 million.
Movements in equity in the table below relate to hedging instruments designated as net investment hedges of the Groups Euro and US Dollar denominated assets.
2018 2017 Change in Change in million equity equity Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures: 10% appreciation of euro 2017: 10% 408 484 10% appreciation of US dollar 2017: 10% 44 20 An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would result in a change in equity of 499 million and 54 million for euro and US dollar exchange rates respectively 2017: 591 million and 24 million.
At 30 September 2018, after the effect of derivative financial instruments, approximately 68 per cent of the Groups net debt was denominated in euro and non USD currencies 2017: 58 per cent, 32 per cent in US dollars 2017: 42 per cent.
com 111 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 19.
FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS CONTINUED INTEREST RATE RISK The Groups interest rate risk arises from its borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents, with the primary exposures arising from fluctuations in euro and US dollar interest rates.
Borrowings at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group manages its exposure to interest rate risk on its borrowings by entering into derivative financial instruments, interest rate swaps, to achieve an appropriate mix of fixed and floating interest rate debt in accordance with the Treasury Committee framework and Treasury Committee discussions.
As at 30 September 2018, after adjusting for the effect of derivative financial instruments detailed in note 20, approximately 72 per cent 2017: 75 per cent of net debt was at fixed rates of interest and 28 per cent 2017: 25 per cent was at floating rates of interest.
INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The Groups sensitivity to interest rates on its euro and US dollar monetary items which are primarily external borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, is illustrated on an indicative basis below.
The impact in the Groups income statement reflects the effect on net finance costs in respect of the Groups net debt and the fixed to floating rate debt ratio prevailing at 30 September 2018, ignoring any taxation implications and offsetting effects of movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that net debt and the derivatives portfolio remain constant and that there is no net impact on other comprehensive income 2017: nil.
2018 2017 Change in Change in million income income Income statement impact of interest rate movements: - 1% increase in euro interest rates 2017: 1% 20 12 - 1% increase in US dollar interest rates 2017: 1% 14 20 B CREDIT RISK The Group is primarily exposed to credit risk arising from the extension of credit to its customers, cash deposits, derivatives and other amounts due from external financial counterparties arising on other financial instruments.
The maximum aggregate credit risk to these sources was 3,644 million at 30 September 2018 2017: 3,633 million.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Policies are in place to manage the risk associated with the extension of credit to third parties to ensure that commercial intent is balanced effectively with credit risk management.
Subsidiaries have policies in place that require appropriate credit checks on customers, and credit is extended with consideration to financial risk and creditworthiness.
If a customer requires credit beyond an acceptable limit, security may be put in place to minimise the financial impact in the event of a payment default.
Instruments that may typically be used as security include non-recourse receivables factoring and bank guarantees.
At 30 September 2018 the leveloftrade receivables that were sold to a financial institution under a non-recourse factoring arrangement totaled 724 million 2017: 626 million.
Analysis of trade and other receivables is provided in note 15.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In order to manage its credit risk to any one counterparty, the Group places cash deposits and enters into derivative financial instruments with a diversified group of financial institutions carrying suitable credit ratings in line with the Treasury Committee framework.
Utilisation of counterparty credit limits is regularly monitored by treasury and ISDA agreements are in place to permit the net settlement of assets and liabilities in certain circumstances.
In connection with two ISDA Credit Support Annexes the Group had placed 82 million as at 30 September 2018 2017: 75 million as collateral with third parties in order to manage their counterparty risk on the Group under derivative financial instruments.
The table below summarises the Groups largest exposures to financial counterparties as at 30 September 2018.
At the balance sheet date management does not expect these counterparties to default on their current obligations.
The impact of the Groups own credit risk on the fair value of derivatives and other obligations held at fair value is not considered to be material.
2018 2017 Maximum Maximum exposure to exposure to S&P credit credit risk S&P credit credit risk Counterparty exposure rating million rating million Highest A 6 A 17 2nd highest BBB 5 AA 8 3rd highest A 3 A 7 4th highest A 3 A 6 5th highest A 4 112 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS C LIQUIDITY RISK The Group is exposed to liquidity risk, which represents the risk of having insufficient funds to meet its financing needs in any particular subsidiary when needed.
To manage this risk the Group has a policy of actively maintaining a mixture of short, medium and long-term committed facilities that are structured to ensure that the Group has sufficient available funds to meet the forecast requirements of the Group over the short to medium term.
To prevent over-reliance on individual sources of liquidity, funding is provided across a range of instruments including debt capital market issuance, bank bi-lateral loans, bank revolving credit facilities and European commercial paper.
The Group primarily borrows centrally in order to meet forecast funding requirements, and the treasury function is in regular dialogue with subsidiary companies to ensure their liquidity needs are met.
Subsidiary companies are funded by a combination of share capital and retained earnings, intercompany loans, and in very limited cases through external local borrowings.
Cash pooling processes are used to centralise surplus cash held by subsidiaries where possible in order to minimise external borrowing requirements and interest costs.
Treasury invests surplus cash in bank deposits and uses foreign exchange contracts to manage short-term liquidity requirements in line with short-term cash flow forecasts.
As at 30 September 2018, the Group held liquid assets of 775 million 2017: 624 million.
The table below summarises the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities by maturity based on their contractual cash flows as at 30 September 2018.
The amounts disclosed are undiscounted cash flows calculated using spot rates of exchange prevailing at the relevant balance sheet date.
Contractual cash flows in respect of the Groups derivative financial instruments are detailed in note 20.
2018 Contractual Balance sheet cash flows Between 1 and Between 2 and million amount total 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities: Bank loans 147 152 152 Capital market issuance 11,848 13,745 2,670 2,002 4,843 4,230 Trade payables 1,198 1,198 1,198 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 13,193 15,095 4,020 2,002 4,843 4,230 2017 Contractual Balance sheet cash flows Between 1 and Between 2 and million amount total 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities: Bank loans 285 287 287 Capital market issuance 12,264 14,637 2,554 1,138 5,823 5,122 Trade payables 1,245 1,245 1,245 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 13,794 16,169 4,086 1,138 5,823 5,122 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group defines capital as adjusted net debt and equity and manages its capital structure through an appropriate balance of debt and equity in order to drive an efficient mix for the Group.
Besides the minimum capitalisation rules that may apply to subsidiaries in certain countries, the Groups only external imposed capital requirements are interest cover and gearing covenants contained within its core external bank debt facilities, with which the Group was fully compliant during the current and prior periods and expects to be so going forward.
The Group continues to manage its capital structure to maintain investment grade credit rating which it monitors by reference to a number of key financial ratios, including ongoing consideration of the return of capital to shareholders via regular dividend payments and in on-going discussions with the relevant rating agencies.
As at 30 September 2018 the Group was rated Baa3 stable outlook by Moodys Investor Service Ltd, BBB A-2 stable outlook by Standard and Poors Credit Market Services Europe Limited and BBB F3 stable outlook by Fitch Ratings Limited.
The Group regards its total capital as follows.
million 2018 2017 Adjusted net debt note 29 11,474 12,147 Equity attributable to the owners of the parent 5,770 5,684 Total capital 17,244 17,831 www.
com 113 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 19.
FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS CONTINUED HEDGE ACCOUNTING The Group hedges its underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial and structured manner in line with the policies above, although the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting.
As a result, and as permitted under IAS 39, the Group has decided not to apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting in respect of these transactions.
The Group does apply hedge accounting in respect of certain net investments in foreign operations where appropriate.
The hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is a hedge of the translation foreign currency risk arising on the foreign operation.
Asat 30September 2018 the Group had made net investment hedge designations in foreign operations in respect of external euro borrowings with a carrying value of 3,400 million 2017: 4,250 million, US dollar borrowings with a carrying value of $5,000 million 2017: $7,050 million, and cross-currency swaps with a notional value of 4,164 million 2017: 4,164 million.
The Group also treats certain permanent intra-group loans that meet relevant qualifying criteria under IAS 21 as part of its net investment in foreign operations where appropriate.
Intra-group loans with a notional value of 2,506 million 2017: 2,381 million and US dollar loans with a notional value of $5,636 million 2017: $6,761 million were treated as part of the Groups net investment in foreign operations at the balance sheet date.
FAIR VALUE ESTIMATION AND HIERARCHY All financial assets and liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at amortised cost, other than derivative financial instruments which are carried at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data such as yield curves and foreign exchange rates as at the balance sheet date Level 2 classification hierarchy per IFRS 7 as detailed in note 20.
There were no changes to the valuation methods or transfers between hierarchies during the year.
With the exception of capital market issuance, the fair value of all financial assets and financial liabilities is considered approximate to their carrying amount as outlined in note 18.
NETTING ARRANGEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The following tables set out the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to netting and set-off arrangements.
Financial assets and liabilities that are subject to set-off arrangements and disclosed on a net basis in the Groups balance sheet primarily relate to cash pooling arrangements and collateral in respect of derivative financial instruments under ISDA Credit Support Annexes.
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to derivative transactions executed under ISDA agreements where each party has the option to settleamounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
2018 Gross Gross financial Net financial Related financial assets assets amounts not assets liabilities liabilities per set-off in the million liabilities set-off balance sheet balance sheet Net Assets Derivative financial instruments 581 82 499 481 18 Cash and cash equivalents 775 775 775 1,356 82 1,274 481 793 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 1,260 82 1,178 481 697 Bank loans and overdrafts 147 147 147 1,407 82 1,325 481 844 2017 Gross Gross financial Net financial Related financial assets assets amounts not assets liabilities liabilities per set-off in the million liabilities set-off balance sheet balance sheet Net Assets Derivative financial instruments 718 75 643 603 40 Cash and cash equivalents 624 624 624 1,342 75 1,267 603 664 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 1,283 75 1,208 603 605 Bank loans and overdrafts 285 285 285 1,568 75 1,493 603 890 114 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 20.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups derivative financial instruments held at fair value, are as follows.
2018 2017 million Assets Liabilities Net Fair Value Assets Liabilities Net Fair Value Current derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 28 24 4 47 33 14 Foreign exchange contracts 6 7 1 12 9 3 Cross-currency swaps 3 127 124 1 1 Total current derivatives 37 158 121 60 42 18 Collateral 53 53 37 105 68 60 42 18 Non-current derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 462 700 238 583 734 151 Cross-currency swaps 402 402 507 507 Total non-current derivatives 462 1,102 640 583 1,241 658 Collateral 29 29 75 75 462 1,073 611 583 1,166 583 Total carrying value of derivative financial instruments 499 1,178 679 643 1,208 565 Analysed as: Interest rate swaps 490 724 234 630 767 137 Foreign exchange contracts 6 7 1 12 9 3 Cross-currency swaps 3 529 526 1 507 506 Collateral 82 82 75 75 Total carrying value of derivative financial instruments 499 1,178 679 643 1,208 565 1.
Collateral deposited against derivative financial liabilities under the terms and conditions of ISDA Credit Support Annexes Fair values are determined based on observable market data such as yield curves and foreign exchange rates to calculate the present value of future cash flows associated with each derivative at the balance sheet date.
The classification of these derivative assets and liabilities under the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy is provided in note 19.
MATURITY OF OBLIGATIONS UNDER DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Derivative financial instruments have been classified in the balance sheet as current or non-current on an undiscounted contractual basis based on spot rates as at the balance sheet date.
Some of the Groups derivative financial instruments contain early termination options.
For the purposes of the above and following analysis, maturity dates have been based on the likelihood of an option being exercised with consideration to counterparty expectations and market conditions prevailing as at 30 September 2018.
Any collateral transferred to counterparties in respect of derivative financial liabilities has been classified consistently with the related underlying derivative.
The table below summarises the Groups derivative financial instruments by maturity based on their remaining contractual cash flows as at 30 September 2018.
The amounts disclosed are the undiscounted cash flows calculated using spot rates of exchange prevailing at the relevant balance sheet date.
Contractual cash flows in respect of the Groups non-derivative financial instruments are detailed in note 19.
2018 Contractual Balance cash flows Between Between million sheet amount total 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Net settled derivatives 205 508 13 38 183 274 Gross settled derivatives 474 receipts 5,364 2,249 102 1,228 1,785 payments 5,610 2,349 79 1,234 1,948 679 754 113 15 189 437 2017 Balance Contractual sheet cash flows Between Between million amount total 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Net settled derivatives 107 353 12 9 172 184 Gross settled derivatives 458 receipts 5,449 1,548 818 1,273 1,810 payments 5,712 1,525 923 1,288 1,976 565 616 35 114 187 350 www.
com 115 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 20.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED DERIVATIVES AS HEDGING INSTRUMENTS As outlined in note 19, the Group hedges its underlying interest rate exposure and foreign currency translation exposures in an efficient, commercial and structured manner, primarily using interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps.
Foreign exchange contracts are used to manage the Groups short-term liquidity requirements in line with short-term cash flow forecasts as appropriate.
The Group does not apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting, as permitted under IAS 39, which results in fair value gains and losses attributable to derivative financial instruments being recognised in net finance costs unless they are designated as hedges of a net investment in foreign operations, in which case they are recognised in other comprehensive income.
INTEREST RATE SWAPS To manage interest rate risk on its borrowings, the Group issues debt in the market or markets that are most appropriate at the time of raising new finance with regard to currency, interest denomination and or duration, and then uses interest rate swaps to re-base the debt into the appropriate proportions of fixed and floating interest rates where necessary.
Interest rate swaps are also transacted to manage and re-profile the Groups interest rate risk over the short, medium and long-term in accordance with the Treasury Committee framework and Treasury Committee discussions.
Fair value movements are recognised in net finance costs in the relevant reporting period.
As at 30 September 2018, the notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding that were entered into to convert fixed rate borrowings into floating rates of interest at the time of raising new finance were 10,353 million equivalent 2017: 12,393 million equivalent with a fair value of 240 million asset 2017: 579 million asset.
The fixed interest rates vary from 0.5 per cent to 8.7 per cent 2017: 0.5 per cent to 8.7 per cent, and the floating rates are EURIBOR, LIBOR and US LIBOR.
As at 30 September 2018, the notional amount of interest rate swaps outstanding that were entered into to convert the Groups debt into the appropriate proportion of fixed and floating rates to manage and re-profile the Groups interest rate risk were 10,285 million equivalent 2017: 11,049 million equivalent with a fair value of 445 million liability 2017: 686 million liability.
The fixed interest rates vary from 0.8 per cent to 4.4 per cent 2017: 0.8 per cent to 4.4 per cent, and the floating rates are EURIBOR, LIBOR and US LIBOR.
This includes forward starting interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of 1,476 million equivalent 2017: 1,452 million equivalent with tenors extending for 5 years, starting between October 2020 and May 2022.
CROSS-CURRENCY SWAPS The Group enters into cross-currency swaps to convert the currency of debt into the appropriate currency with consideration to the underlying assets of the Group as appropriate.
Fair value movements are recognised in net finance costs in the relevant reporting period unless they are designated as hedges of a net investment in foreign operations, in which case they are recognised in other comprehensive income.
As at 30 September 2018, the notional amount of cross-currency swaps entered into to convert floating rate sterling debt into the desired currency at floating rates of interest was 3,300 million 2016: 3,300 million and the fair value of these swaps was 473million net liability 2017: 461 million net liability.
HEDGES OF NET INVESTMENTS IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS As at 30 September 2018, cross-currency swaps with a notional amount of 4,164 million 2017: 4,164 million were designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
During the year, foreign exchange translation losses amounting to 23 million 2017:92 million losses were recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of cross-currency swaps that had been designated as hedges of a net investment in foreign operations.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts to manage short-term liquidity requirements in line with cash flow forecasts.
As at 30 September 2018, the notional amount of these contracts was 1,430 million equivalent 2017: 1,482 million equivalent and the fair value of these contracts was a net liability of 1 million 2017: 3 million net asset.
116 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 21.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The following amounts, determined after appropriate offsetting, are shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 2018 Accelerated depreciation Other and Retirement temporary million amortisation benefits differences Total At 1 October 2017 181 129 307 617 Credited charged to consolidated income statement 57 1 68 10 Credited to other comprehensive income 2 2 Transfers 3 1 1 3 Exchange movements 4 2 6 At 30 September 2018 231 133 236 600 2017 Accelerated depreciation Other and Retirement temporary million amortisation benefits differences Total At 1 October 2016 226 269 588 631 Credited charged to consolidated income statement 202 1 10 211 Charged to other comprehensive income 28 1 29 Transfers 212 114 296 198 Exchange movements 7 3 6 2 At 30 September 2017 181 129 307 617 DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES 2018 Accelerated depreciation Other and Retirement temporary million amortisation benefits differences Total At 1 October 2017 1,403 37 275 1,091 Credited charged to consolidated income statement 219 12 171 36 Charged to other comprehensive income 56 56 Transfers 3 1 1 3 Acquisitions 7 2 5 Exchange movements 5 5 At 30 September 2018 1,193 27 107 1,113 2017 Accelerated depreciation Other and Retirement temporary million amortisation benefits differences Total At 1 October 2016 1,143 47 62 1,034 Charged to consolidated income statement 61 32 68 161 Charged to other comprehensive income 91 91 Transfers 212 114 296 198 Other movements 12 12 Exchange movements 13 1 3 9 At 30 September 2017 1,403 37 275 1,091 www.
com 117 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 21.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED DEFERRED TAX EXPECTED TO BE RECOVERED WITHIN 12 MONTHS million 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets 252 340 Deferred tax liabilities 50 270 202 70 DEFERRED TAX EXPECTED TO BE RECOVERED IN MORE THAN 12 MONTHS million 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets 348 277 Deferred tax liabilities 1,063 821 715 544 Within other temporary differences, deferred tax assets of 173 million 2017: 250 million are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
As at the balance sheet date, deferred tax assets of 133 million 2017: 106 million have not been recognised due to the potential uncertainty of the utilisation of the underlying tax losses in certain jurisdictions.
Of these unrecognised deferred tax assets 6 million 2017: 7 million are expected to expire in 2019 and 37 million 2017: 7 million are expected to expire within 5 years.
The remaining 90 million 2017: 62 million has no time expiry.
Also within Other temporary differences, deferred tax assets of 21 million 2017: 33 million are recognised for tax credits carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the tax related benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
Deferred tax assets of 146 million 2017: 143 million have not been recognised due to the potential uncertainty of the utilisation of the credits.
Of these unrecognised deferred tax assets 48 million 2017: 44 million are expected to expire between 2021 and 2028.
We have reviewed the recoverability of deferred tax assets in overseas territories in the light of forecast business performance.
In 2018 we derecognised deferred tax assets of 51 million that were previously recognised on the basis that it is more likely than not that these are irrecoverable.
In 2017 there was no material movement.
A deferred tax liability of 115 million 2017: 89 million is recognised in respect of taxation expected to arise on the future distribution of unremitted earnings totalling 9 billion 2017: 8 billion.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is nil 2017: 140 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences, and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes for its employees, including both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The Groups three principal schemes are defined benefit schemes and are operated by Imperial Tobacco Limited ITL inthe UK, Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in Germany and ITG Brands in the USA: these schemes represent 64 per cent, 11 per cent and 7 per cent of the Groups total defined benefit obligations and 41 per cent, 24 per cent and 9 per cent of the current service cost respectively.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO PENSION FUND The UK scheme, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund or ITPF, is a voluntary final salary pension scheme with a normal retirement age of 60 for most members.
The ITPF was offered to employees who joined the company before 1 October 2010 and has a weighted average maturity of 18 years.
Effective from 1 September 2017, members pensionable pay was capped at the higher of 75,000 or their pensionable pay at 1 September 2017.
The population as at the most recent funding valuation comprises 65 per cent in respect of pensioners, 32 per cent in respect of deferred members and 3 per cent in respect of current employees.
New employees in the UK are now offered a defined contribution scheme.
Should surplus funds arise in the defined benefit section they may be used to finance defined contribution section contributions on ITLs behalf with company contributions reduced accordingly.
The ITPF operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustees on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation.
The ITPFs assets are held by the trust.
Annual increases in benefits in payment are dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable under the ITPF are future inflation levels including the impact of inflation on future salary increases and any salary increases above inflation and the actual longevity of the membership.
The contributions paid to the ITPF are set by the ITPF Scheme Actuary every three years.
The Scheme Actuary is an external consultant, appointed by the Trustees.
Principal factors that the Scheme Actuary will have regard to include the covenant offered by the Group, the level of risk in the ITPF, the expected returns on the ITPFs assets, the results of the funding assessment on an ongoing basis and the expected cost of securing benefits if the fund were to be wound up.
118 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The latest valuation of the ITPF was carried out as at 31 March 2016 when the market value of the invested assets was 3,302 million.
Based on the ongoing funding target the total assets were sufficient to cover 96 per cent of the benefits that had accrued to members for past service, after allowing for expected future pay increases.
The total assets were sufficient to cover 90 per cent of the total benefits that had accrued to members for past service and future service benefits for current members.
In compliance with the Pensions Act 2004, ITL and the Trustee agreed a scheme-specific funding target, a statement of funding principles and a schedule of contributions accordingly.
Following the valuation, the level of employers contributions to the scheme was increased from 65 million per year.
ITL paid 80million in the year to 31 March 2018 and agreed to pay 85 million each year for the subsequent 13 years.
Further contributions were agreed to be paid by the ITL in the event of a downgrade of the Groups credit rating to non-investment grade by either Standard & Poors or Moodys.
In addition, surety guarantees with a total value of 600 million and a parental guarantee with Imperial Brands PLC have been put in place.
The main risk for the Group in respect of the ITPF is that additional contributions are required if the investment returns are not sufficient to pay for the benefits which will be influenced by the factors noted above.
The investment portfolio is subject to a rangeof risks typical of the asset classes held, in particular credit risk on bonds, exposure to equity markets, and exposure to the property market.
The IAS 19 liability measurement of the defined benefit obligation DBO and the current service cost are sensitive to the assumptions made about future inflation and salary growth levels, as well as the assumptions made about life expectation.
They are also sensitive to the discount rate, which depends on market yields on sterling denominated AA corporate bonds.
The main differences between the funding and IAS 19 assumptions are a more prudent longevity assumption for funding and a different approach to setting the discount rate.
A consequence of the ITPFs investment strategy, with a proportion of the assets invested in equities and other return-seeking assets, is that the difference between the market value of the assets and the IAS 19 liabilities may be relatively volatile.
THE REEMTSMA CIGARETTENFABRIKEN PENSION PLAN The German scheme, the Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken Pension Plan RCPP, is primarily a career average pension plan that is open to new entrants, though a small closed group of members has final salary benefits.
It has a weighted average maturity of 19 years.
The scheme population comprises 47 per cent in respect of pensioners, 17 per cent in respect of deferred members and 36 per cent in respect of current employees.
The plan is unfunded and the company pays benefits as they arise.
The plans obligations arise under a works council agreement and are subject to standard German legal requirements around such matters as the benefits to be provided to employees who leave service, and pension increases in payment.
Over the next year Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH expects to pay 21 million in respect of benefits.
Annual increases in benefits in payment are dependent on inflation so the main uncertainties affecting the level of benefits payable under the plan are future inflation levels and the actual longevity of the membership.
The IAS 19 liability measurement of the DBO and the current service cost are sensitive to the assumptions made about the above variables, as well as the discount rate, which depends on market yields on euro denominated AA corporate bonds.
ITG BRANDS HOURLY PENSION PLAN The main USA pension scheme, the ITG Brands Hourly Pension Plan ITGBH, is a defined benefit pension plan that is open to new entrants.
It has a weighted average maturity of 10 years.
The population comprises 73 per cent in respect of pensioners, 11 per cent in respect of deferred members and 16 per cent in respect of current employees.
The plan is funded and benefits are paid from the plan assets.
Contributions to the plan are determined based on US regulatory requirements and ITG Brands is not expected to make any contributions in the next year.
Annual benefits in payment are assumed not to increase from current levels.
The main uncertainty affecting the level of benefits payable under the plan is the actual longevity of the membership.
Other key uncertainties impacting the plan include investment risk and potential past service benefit changes from future negotiations.
The IAS 19 liability measurement of the DBO and the service cost are sensitive to the assumptions made about the above variables, as well as the discount rate, which depends on market yields on US dollar denominated AA corporate bonds.
OTHER PLANS Other plans of the Group include various pension plans, other post-employment and long-term employee benefit plans in several countries of operation.
Many of the plans are funded, with assets backing the obligations held in separate legal vehicles such as trusts, others are operated on an unfunded basis.
The benefits provided, the approach to funding and the legal basis of the plans reflect their local territories.
IAS 19 requires that the discount rate for calculating the DBO and service cost is set according to the level of relevant market yields on corporate bonds where the market is considered deep, or government bonds where it is not.
com 119 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 22.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS The results of the most recent available actuarial valuations for the various plans have been updated to 30 September 2018 in order to determine the amounts to be included in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The aggregate IAS 19 position is as follows: 2018 2017 million DBO Assets Total DBO Assets Total At 1 October 5,448 4,732 716 6,099 4,620 1,479 Consolidated income statement expense Current service cost 52 52 64 64 Settlements gains losses 12 7 5 Past service credits 12 12 91 91 Cost of termination benefits 38 38 10 10 Net interest expense income on net defined benefit liability asset 142 129 13 132 107 25 Administration costs paid from plan assets 5 5 3 3 Cost recognised in the income statement 91 11 Remeasurements Actuarial loss gain due to liability experience 20 20 204 204 Actuarial gain due to financial assumption changes 105 105 299 299 Actuarial gain due to demographic assumption changes 25 25 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expense income above 111 111 121 121 Remeasurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 196 649 Cash Employer contributions 158 158 140 140 Employee contributions 1 1 1 1 Benefits paid directly by the company 66 66 46 46 Benefits paid from plan assets 215 215 205 205 Net cash 158 140 Other Exchange movements 20 10 10 12 3 15 Total other 10 15 At 30 September 5,311 4,848 463 5,448 4,732 716 The cost of termination benefits in the year ended 30 September 2018 mainly relate to restructuring activity in Germany.
The past service credit arises as a result of curtailment gains in Germany and France, and the introduction of a pensionable pay cap in Ireland.
Settlement gains have arisen following lump-sum exercises in both Germany and the US.
The payment of 22.8 million arising from the lump-sum exercise in Germany has been accounted for through the pension scheme, however the monies have yet to be paid to the beneficiaries, and is held separately as a current payable on the balance sheet.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEME COSTS CHARGED TO OPERATING PROFIT million 2018 2017 Defined benefit expense income in operating profit 78 14 Defined contribution expense in operating profit 17 17 Total retirement benefit scheme cost in operating profit 95 3 Split as follows in the consolidated income statement: million 2018 2017 Cost of sales 29 3 Distribution, advertising and selling costs 40 Administrative and other expenses 26 Total retirement benefit scheme costs in operating profit 95 3 120 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS ASSETS AND LIABILITIES RECOGNISED IN THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET million 2018 2017 Retirement benefit assets 598 358 Retirement benefit liabilities 1,061 1,074 Net retirement benefit liability 463 716 KEY FIGURES AND ASSUMPTIONS USED FOR MAJOR PLANS 2018 2017 million unless otherwise indicated ITPF RCPP ITGBH ITPF RCPP ITGBH Defined benefit obligation DBO 3,380 600 394 3,485 613 418 Fair value of scheme assets 3,902 388 3,790 394 Net defined benefit asset liability 522 600 6 305 613 24 Current service cost 21 13 5 28 15 5 Employer contributions 80 75 22 Principal actuarial assumptions used % per annum Discount rate 2.9 1.9 4.3 2.7 1.9 3.8 Future salary increases 3.7 2.9 n a 3.7 2.9 n a Future pension increases 3.2 1.8 n a 3.2 1.8 n a Inflation 3.2 1.8 2.5 3.2 1.8 2.5 2018 ITPF RCPP ITGBH Male Female Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 years: Member currently aged 65 22.0 23.6 19.4 23.4 19.7 22.2 Member currently aged 50 23.4 25.5 21.4 25.3 20.9 23.3 2017 ITPF RCPP ITGBH Male Female Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 years: Member currently aged 65 21.9 23.5 19.3 23.3 19.8 22.3 Member currently aged 50 23.3 25.5 21.3 25.2 21.1 23.5 Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on advice that uses published statistics and experience in each territory.
In particular for the ITPF, SAPS S2 tables are used with various adjustments for different groups of members, reflecting observed experience.
The largest group of members uses the SAPS S2 All Pensioner Male Amounts table with a 97.7 per cent multiplier.
An allowance for improvements in longevity is made using the 2015 CMI improvement rates with a long-term trend of 1.25per cent per annum.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS FOR KEY ASSUMPTIONS AT THE END OF THE YEAR Sensitivity analysis is illustrative only and is provided to demonstrate the degree of sensitivity of results to key assumptions.
Generally, estimates are made by re-performing calculations with one assumption modified and all others held constant.
2018 2017 % increase in DBO ITPF RCPP ITGBH ITPF RCPP ITGBH Discount rate: 0.5% decrease 8.7 9.9 5.2 9.0 9.4 5.6 Rate of inflation: 0.5% decrease 7.1 6.5 n a 7.3 6.3 n a One year increase in longevity for a member currently age 65, corresponding changes at other ages 3.5 4.5 4.0 3.7 4.6 4.1 The sensitivity to the inflation assumption change includes corresponding changes to the future salary increases and future pension increases assumptions, but is assumed to be independent of any change to discount rate.
We estimate that a 0.5 per cent decrease in the discount rate at the start of the year would have increased the consolidated income statement pension expense by approximately 14 million.
com 121 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 22.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED An approximate split of the major categories of ITPF scheme assets is as follows: 2018 2017 Percentage Percentage of ITPF of ITPF scheme scheme million unless otherwise indicated Fair value assets Fair value assets Equities 564 15 1,430 38 Bonds index linked government 1,403 36 915 24 Bonds corporate and other 361 9 305 8 Property 542 14 529 14 Absolute return 477 12 589 15 Other including derivatives, commodities and cash 555 14 22 1 3,902 100 3,790 100 The majority of the assets are quoted.
There is now no self-investments in the Imperial Brands PLC shares following termination of the mandates that previously held these shares.
As in previous years, the value of ground leases have been allocated to the property asset class.
An approximate split of the major categories of ITGBH scheme assets is as follows: 2018 2017 Percentage Percentage of ITGBH of ITGBH scheme scheme million unless otherwise indicated Fair value assets Fair value assets Investment funds 252 65 257 65 Bonds fixed government 54 14 75 19 Bonds corporate and other 66 17 58 15 Other including derivatives, commodities and cash 16 4 4 1 388 100 394 100 The majority of the assets are non-quoted.
PROVISIONS 2018 million Restructuring Other Total At 1 October 2017 380 145 525 Additional provisions charged to the consolidated income statement 99 62 161 Amounts used 171 26 197 Unused amounts reversed 13 22 35 Exchange movements 2 3 1 At 30 September 2018 297 156 453 Analysed as: million 2018 2017 Current 179 187 Non-current 274 338 453 525 Restructuring provisions relate mainly to our cost optimisation programme see note 5, and other provisions principally relate to holiday pay, local tax and Logista provisions.
It is expected that the majority of provisions will be utilised within a period of 10years.
122 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 24.
SHARE CAPITAL million 2018 2017 Authorised, issued and fully paid 1,031,026,084 ordinary shares of 10p each 2017: 1,032,340,000 103 103 During the year 1,313,916 shares were repurchased and immediately cancelled, increasing the Capital Redemption reserve.
On 6 March 2014, 31,942,881 shares held in Treasury were cancelled creating the Capital Redemption reserve, and in September 2017, 3,660,000 shares were cancelled increasing this reserve.
SHARE SCHEMES The Group operates four types of share-based incentive programmes, designed to incentivise staff and to encourage them to build a stake in the Group.
SHARE MATCHING SCHEME Awards are made to eligible employees who are invited to invest a proportion of their eligible bonus in shares for a period of three years, after which matching shares are awarded on a 1:1 ratio, plus dividend equivalents.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP Awards of shares under the LTIP are made to the Executive Directors and senior executives at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
They vest three years after grant and are subject to performance criteria.
Dividend equivalents accrue on vested shares.
SHARESAVE PLAN Options are granted to eligible employees who participate in a designated savings scheme for a three year period.
Historically they were also granted for a five year period.
DISCRETIONARY SHARE AWARDS PLAN DSAP Under the DSAP, one-off conditional awards are made to individuals to recognise exceptional contributions within the business.
Awards, which are not subject to performance conditions and under which vested shares do not attract dividend roll-up, will normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant subject to the participants continued employment.
The limit of an award under the DSAP is capped at 25 per cent of the participants salary at the date of grant.
Shares used to settle awards under the DSAP will be market purchased.
Further details of the schemes including additional criteria applying to Directors and some senior executives are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
ANALYSIS OF CHARGE TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT million 2018 2017 Share Matching Scheme 14 19 Long-Term Incentive Plan 9 6 Sharesave Plan 2 2 Discretionary Share Awards Plan 1 26 27 The awards are predominantly equity-settled.
The balance sheet liability in respect of cash-settled schemes at 30 September 2018 was 0.9 million 2017: 2.1 million.
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN AWARDS OPTIONS 2018 Sharesave Share weighted matching average scheme LTIP Sharesave DSAP exercise Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated awards awards options awards price Outstanding at 1 October 2017 1,907 1,190 997 45 27.73 Granted 175 2,002 972 26 22.24 Lapsed cancelled 78 25 302 29.12 Exercised 697 153 343 23.87 Outstanding at 30 September 2018 1,307 3,014 1,324 71 25.03 Exercisable at 30 September 2018 98 25.22 www.
com 123 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 25.
SHARE SCHEMES CONTINUED 2017 Sharesave weighted Share average matching LTIP Sharesave DSAP exercise Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated awards awards options awards price Outstanding at 1 October 2016 2,265 1,100 1,085 19 24.73 Granted 662 397 340 26 29.62 Lapsed cancelled 109 104 86 25.59 Exercised 911 203 342 20.62 Outstanding at 30 September 2017 1,907 1,190 997 45 27.73 Exercisable at 30 September 2017 43 20.40 The weighted average Imperial Brands PLC share price at the date of exercise of awards and options was 26.80 2017: 36.24.
The weighted average fair value of sharesave options granted during the year was 4.00 2017: 6.68.
SUMMARY OF AWARDS OPTIONS OUTSTANDING AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Vesting Number of period Exercise price awards options remaining of options Thousands of shares unless otherwise indicated outstanding in months outstanding Share Matching Scheme 2016 550 5 n a 2017 583 17 n a 2018 174 29 n a Total awards outstanding 1,307 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 243 n a 2016 399 5 n a 2017 397 17 n a 2018 1,975 29 n a Total awards outstanding 3,014 Sharesave Plan 2013 1 18.40 2014 2 20.40 2015 95 25.40 2016 209 10 29.68 2017 271 22 29.62 2018 746 34 22.24 Total options outstanding 1,324 Discretionary Share Awards Plan 2016 18 2 n a 2016 1 10 n a 2017 24 20 n a 2017 2 23 n a 2018 26 31 n a Total options outstanding 71 The vesting period is the period between the grant of awards or options and the earliest date on which they are exercisable.
The vesting period remaining and the exercise price of options outstanding are weighted averages.
Participants in the Sharesave Plan have six months from the maturity date to exercise their option.
Participants in the LTIP generally have seven years from the end of the vesting period to exercise their option.
The exercise price of the options is fixed over the life of each option.
124 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS PRICING For the purposes of valuing options to calculate the share-based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used for the Share Matching Scheme, Sharesave Plan, Discretionary Shares Awards Plan and one Long-Term Incentive Plan with no market conditions.
A summary of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model for 2018 and 2017 is as follows.
2018 2017 Share Share matching Sharesave DSAP LTIP matching Sharesave DSAP Risk-free interest rate % 1.2 0.02.9 1.2 1.21.3 0.8 0.1 0.60.9 Volatility based on 3 or 5 year history % 24.1 24.024.1 24.2 23.924.5 24.1 24.4 24.124.8 Expected lives of options granted years 3 3 3 35 3 3 3 Dividend yield % 4.75 4.75 4.75 4.75 4.2 4.2 4.2 Fair value 22.84 3.884.76 24.24 22.0524.24 32.66 6.026.48 28.2532.03 Share price used to determine exerciseprice 26.34 26.0826.32 27.96 27.96 37.00 35.4736.29 32.0136.29 Exercise price n a 22.24 n a n a n a 29.62 n a Market conditions were incorporated into the Monte Carlo method used in determining the fair value of all other Long-Term Incentive Plan awards at grant date.
Assumptions in 2018 and 2017 are given in the following table.
% 2018 2017 Future Imperial Brands share price volatility 18.719.2 21.0 Future Imperial Brands dividend yield Share price volatility of the tobacco and alcohol comparator group 17.038.0 16.037.0 Correlation between Imperial Tobacco and the alcohol and tobacco comparator group 32.0 34.0 EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUSTS The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the Trusts have been established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise and vesting of options and awards.
The purchase of shares by the Trusts has been financed by a gift of 19.2 million and an interest free loan of 147.5 million.
In addition the Group has gifted treasury shares to the Trusts.
None of the Trusts shares has been allocated to employees or Executive Directors as at 30 September 2017.
All finance costs and administration expenses connected with the Trusts are charged to the consolidated income statement as they accrue.
The Trusts have waived their rights to dividends and the shares held by the Trusts are excluded from the calculation of basic earnings per share.
SHARES HELD BY EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUSTS Millions of shares 2018 2017 At 1 October 1.9 3.5 Distribution of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 1.2 1.6 At 30 September 0.7 1.9 The shares in the Trusts are accounted for on a first in first out basis and comprise nil shares acquired in the open market 2017: nil and 0.7 million 2017: 1.9 million treasury shares gifted to the Trusts by the Group.
There were nil 2017: nil shares gifted in the financial year 2018.
TREASURY SHARES Shares purchased under the Groups buyback programme represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds, and are only cancelled if the number of treasury shares approaches 10 per cent of issued share capital.
During the year the Group purchased 1,313,916 shares at a cost of 41 million 2017: 3,660,000 shares at a cost of 119 million which were immediately cancelled.
Shares held in treasury do not qualify for dividends.
2018 2017 Millions of Millions of shares shares million unless otherwise indicated number Value number Value At 1 October 77.3 2,183 77.3 2,183 Purchase of shares 1.3 41 3.7 119 Cancellation of shares 1.3 41 3.7 119 At 30 September 77.3 2,183 77.3 2,183 Percentage of issued share capital 7.5 n a 7.5 n a www.
com 125 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 27.
COMMITMENTS CAPITAL COMMITMENTS million 2018 2017 Contracted but not provided for: Property, plant and equipment and software 208 195 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases consist of leases where payments fall due: 2018 2017 million Property Other Total Property Other Total Within one year 47 19 66 41 15 56 Between one and five years 107 29 136 92 33 125 Beyond five years 52 52 22 22 206 48 254 155 48 203 A review of operating leases has identified four leases with a total commitment greater than 10 million.
A summary of these commitments are detailed below.
Following the sale of the head office buildings in the UK, two new leases have commenced in respect of these.
The lease in respect of 121 Winterstoke Road commenced on 23 August 2018 for a term of 20 years, due to terminate on 22 August 2038 and currently has an annual rental commitment of 2.5 million.
The lease in respect of 123 Winterstoke Road commenced on 25 September 2018 for a term of 10 years, due to terminate on 24 September 2028 and has an annual rental commitment of 1.0 million.
Both leases will have a review of the rental obligation five years after the lease commencement date.
The German head office lease commenced on 1 January 2014 for a term of 10 years, due to terminate on 31 December 2024.
Currently there is an annual commitment of 3.2 million which is price index graduated on an annual basis.
There is the option to terminate up to 30 per cent of the remaining lease space from 31 December 2019 to 31 December 2023, subject to notice of 14 months and a pro-rata payment penalty.
The Logista head office lease commenced on 1 January 2015 for a term of nine years, due to terminate on 31 December 2023.
Currently there is an annual commitment of 1.8 million which is price index reviewed on an annual basis.
There is the option to terminate the lease on 31 December 2021, subject to an indemnity of two months rent, and an option to extend the lease at expiry for a further nine years.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-related effects.
In the opinion of the Groups lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which are being vigorously contested.
Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe that the pending actions will not have a material adverse effect upon the results of the operations, cash flow or financial condition of the Group.
Consequently, the Group has not provided for any amounts in respect of these cases in the financial statements.
For further details see pages 53-54 of the Directors Report.
COMPETITION AUTHORITY INVESTIGATIONS The Group is currently co-operating with relevant national competition authorities in relation to a number of ongoing competition law investigations, none of which have resulted in findings of infringement.
NET DEBT The movements in cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, and derivative financial instruments in the year were as follows: Cash Derivative and cash Current Non-current financial million equivalents borrowings borrowings instruments Total At 1 October 2017 624 2,353 10,196 565 12,490 Reallocation of current borrowings from non-current borrowings 721 721 Cash flow 203 642 41 804 Accretion of interest 14 2 2 10 Change in fair values 71 71 Exchange movements 52 21 121 152 At 30 September 2018 775 2,397 9,598 679 11,899 126 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS ANALYSIS BY DENOMINATION CURRENCY 2018 million GBP EUR USD Other Total Cash and cash equivalents 47 225 39 464 775 Total borrowings 3,419 4,700 3,844 32 11,995 3,372 4,475 3,805 432 11,220 Effect of cross-currency swaps 3,180 3,706 526 192 8,181 3,805 432 11,746 Derivative financial instruments 153 Net debt 11,899 2017 million GBP EUR USD Other Total Cash and cash equivalents 45 176 43 360 624 Total borrowings 3,436 3,814 5,278 21 12,549 3,391 3,638 5,235 339 11,925 Effect of cross-currency swaps 3,177 3,683 506 214 7,321 5,235 339 12,431 Derivative financial instruments 59 Net debt 12,490 ADJUSTED NET DEBT Management monitors the Groups borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals and the fair value of derivative financial instruments providing commercial cash flow hedges.
million 2018 2017 Reported net debt 11,899 12,490 Accrued interest 197 208 Fair value of derivatives providing commercial hedges 228 135 Adjusted net debt 11,474 12,147 30.
RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT million 2018 2017 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 203 601 Cash flows relating to derivative financial instruments 41 37 Increase in borrowings 1,619 852 Repayment of borrowings 2,261 2,183 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 804 767 Other non-cash movements including revaluation of derivative financial instruments 61 69 Exchange movements 152 7 Movement in net debt during the year 591 829 Opening net debt 12,490 13,319 Closing net debt 11,899 12,490 www.
com 127 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 31.
CHANGES IN NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS In August 2018 the Group reduced its holding in its Distribution business, Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista Holdings SA to a holding of 50.01 per cent.
This increased non-controlling interests by 142 million.
Net proceeds after fees and costs were 234 million.
A net gain of 92 million was recognised in equity attributable to owners of the parent.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS GUARANTEED MINIMUM PENSION EQUALISATION The IAS 19 DBO does not make any allowance for the impact of Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation.
This issue may have a significant effect on the eventual cost of providing benefits, as well as the accounting results.
There is currently too much uncertainty regarding the outcome to make appropriate allowance in the IAS 19 figures, although following the legal judgement of 26October 2018 in relation to the Lloyds Banking Group case it is likely the Company will need to equalise GMPs.
Given the timing of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and complexity of the calculation this has meant that it is not possible to estimate the additional liability.
However, this will be reviewed during the next financial year, and any impact will be reflected in the DBO.
REIDSVILLE SITE CLOSURE On 2 November 2018 the Group announced the closure, during 2020, of the Reidsville, North Carolina factory, a cigarette manufacturing facility employing 117 people.
Production will be moved to the Greensboro, North Carolina site, lowering manufacturing and regulatory costs, and supporting the Groups strategy to continue to reinvest in its business and grow its brands.
RELATED UNDERTAKINGS In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates, and joint ventures, the principal activity, the full registered address and the effective percentage of equity owned by the Imperial Brands PLC, as at 30September 2018, are provided in the entity financial statements of Imperial Brands PLC.
There are no material related parties otherthan Group companies.
128 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC BALANCE SHEET at 30 September million Notes 2018 2017 Fixed assets Investments iii 7,968 7,968 Current Assets Debtors iv 8,017 8,221 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year v 2 27 Net current assets 8,015 8,194 Total assets less current assets 15,983 16,162 Net assets 15,983 16,162 Capital and reserves Called up share capital vi 103 103 Capital redemption reserve 4 4 Share premium account 5,833 5,833 Profit and loss account 10,043 10,222 Total shareholders funds 15,983 16,162 As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented.
The financial statements on pages 129-133 were approved by the Board of Directors on 6 November 2018 and signed on its behalf by: MARK WILLIAMSON OLIVER TANT Chairman Director IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 30 September Share premium and capital Retained Total million Share capital redemption earnings equity At 1 October 2017 103 5,837 10,222 16,162 Profit for the year 38 38 Dividends received 1,500 1,500 Total comprehensive income 1,538 1,538 Transactions with owners Cancellation of share capital 41 41 Dividends paid 1,676 1,676 At 30 September 2018 103 5,837 10,043 15,983 At 1 October 2016 104 5,836 11,090 17,030 Profit for the year 33 33 Dividends received 746 746 Total comprehensive income 779 779 Transactions with owners Cancellation of share capital 1 1 119 119 Dividends paid 1,528 1,528 At 30 September 2017 103 5,837 10,222 16,162 www.
com 129 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC I.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH FRS 101 Imperial Brands PLC the Company is the ultimate Parent Company within the Imperial Brands Group the Group.
The Company is publicly listed, incorporated in the United Kingdom, and its principal activity continued to be that of holding investments.
TheCompany does not have any employees.
The Directors of the Group manage the Groups risks at a Group level, rather than at anindividual entity level.
These risks are detailed in note 2 of the Groups Annual Report see pages 93-94.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101, FRS 101 and applicable accounting standards.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, and as a going concern.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account has been presented for the Company.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available in the preparation of the financial statements, as detailed below: Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements comparative information requirements in respect of: i paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: ii paragraph 118 e of IAS 38 Intangible assets reconciliations between the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period: The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: i 10 d statement of cash flows: ii 10 f a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applied an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective restatement of items in its financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements: iii 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS: iv 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements: v 38B-D additional comparative information: vi 40A-D requirements for a third statement of financial position: vii 111 cash flow information: and viii 134-136 capital management disclosures: IAS 7 Statement of cash flows: Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective: Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related party disclosures key management compensation: The requirements in IAS 24 Related party disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair value measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out below.
The Directors do not consider there to be any critical accounting estimates or judgements in respect of the Company, see note 2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements of the consolidated financial statements for further details.
INVESTMENTS Investments held as fixed assets comprise the Companys investment in subsidiaries and are shown at historic purchase cost less any provision for impairment.
Investments are tested for impairment annually to ensure that the carrying value of the investment is supported by their recoverable amount.
DIVIDENDS Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders, whereas interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
Dividends receivable are recognised as an asset when they are approved.
130 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the rights to receive benefits have expired or been transferred, and the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the obligation is extinguished.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the income statement.
For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as loans and payables.
Payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, the carrying value includes accrued interest payable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments.
TREASURY SHARES When the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity until the shares are reissued or disposed of.
When such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, increases shareholders funds.
When such shares are cancelled they are transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
com 131 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC continued III.
INVESTMENTS COST OF SHARES IN IMPERIAL TOBACCO HOLDINGS 2007 LIMITED million 2018 2017 At 1 October 7,968 7,968 At 30 September 7,968 7,968 The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
A list of the subsidiaries of the Company is shown on pages 134-147.
DEBTORS million 2018 2017 Amounts owed from Group undertakings 8,017 8,221 Amounts owed from Group undertakings are unsecured, interest bearing, have no fixed date for repayment and are repayable ondemand.
V. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR million 2018 2017 Cash at bank and in hand 2 27 VI.
CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL million 2018 2017 Authorised, issued and fully paid 1,031,026,084 ordinary shares of 10p each 2017: 1,032,340,000 103 103 During the year 1,313,916 shares were repurchased and immediately cancelled, increasing the Capital Redemption reserve.
RESERVES As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented.
The profit attributable to shareholders, dealt with in the financial statements of the Company, is 1,538 million 2017: 779 million.
TREASURY SHARES Shares purchased under the Groups buyback programme represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds, and are only cancelled if the number of treasury shares approaches 10 percent of issued share capital.
2018 2017 Millions of Millions of million unless otherwise indicated shares shares number Value shares number Value At 1 October 77.3 2,183 77.3 2,183 Purchase of shares 1.3 41 3.7 119 Cancellation of shares 1.3 41 3.7 119 At 30 September 77.3 2,183 77.3 2,183 Percentage of issued share capital 7.5 n a 7.5 n a 132 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS VIII.
GUARANTEES The Company provides guarantees to a number of subsidiaries under section 479 of the Companies Act 2006, whereby the subsidiaries, incorporated in the UK and Ireland, are exempt from the requirements of the Act relating to the audit of individual accounts for the financial year ending 30 September 2018.
See note 1 Accounting Policies of the consolidated financial statements for further details.
The Company has guaranteed various committed and uncommitted borrowings facilities and liabilities of certain UK and overseas undertakings, including Dutch and Irish subsidiaries.
As at 30 September 2018, the amount guaranteed is 18,374 million 2017: 16,981 million.
The guarantees include the Dutch subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated financial statements as at 30 September 2018 and which, in accordance with Book 2, Article 403 of The Netherlands Civil Code, do not file separate financial statements with the Chamber of Commerce.
Under the same article, the Company has issued declarations to assume any and all liabilities for any and all debts of the Dutch subsidiaries.
Many of the committed borrowing facilities remain undrawn as at 30 September 2018 but the maximum potential exposure under each facility has been included due to the ongoing commitment, only drawn utilised balances have been included for facilities that are uncommitted in nature.
The guarantees also cover the Irish subsidiaries, all of which are included in the consolidated financial statements as at 30 September 2018.
The Irish companies, namely John Player & Sons Limited and Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, have therefore availed themselves of the exemption provided by section 17 of the Irish Companies Amendment Act 1986 in respect of documents required to be attached to the annual returns for such companies.
The Company has also provided a parent guarantee to the Imperial Tobacco Pension Trustees Ltd, the main UK pension scheme.
The Directors have assessed the fair value of the above guarantees and do not consider them to be material.
They have therefore not been recognised on the balance sheet.
RELATED PARY DISCLOSURES Details of Directors emoluments and interests are provided within the Directors Remuneration Report.
