STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Alternative performance measures ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES The Group assesses its performance using a variety of alternative performance measures which are not defined under International Financial Reporting Standards.
These provide insight into how the Board and Executive Committee monitor the Groups strategic and financial performance, and provide useful information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group.
Performance measure Definition Why we measure it Trading profit Operating profit before exceptional items and A measure of the contribution of the Groups unallocated central costs.
Refer to note 1. segmental performance.
Operating profit before Operating profit before exceptional items.
Refer A key metric of the Groups underlying business Exceptional items to the consolidated income statement.
Operating margin Operating profit before exceptional items A key metric of operational efficiency, ensuring divided by revenue.
that we are leveraging global scale to translate sales growth into profit.
Profit before tax & Represents the profit made after operating A key driver of delivering sustainable and exceptional items and interest expense excluding the impact of growing earnings to shareholders.
exceptional items and before tax is charged.
Refer to consolidated income statement.
Exceptional items Items that are charged or credited in the The separate reporting of exceptional items consolidated income statement which are helps provide additional useful information material and non-recurring in nature.
Refer regarding the Groups underlying business to note 2. performance and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by the Board and the Executive Committee.
Free cash flow Net cash flows from operating activities, before A key driver of the Groups ability to Invest to exceptional cash flows, less normalised net Accelerate Growth and to make distributions capital expenditure and dividends paid to nonto shareholders.
Return on capital Operating profit before exceptional items A key measure of Ignite Invest to Accelerate employed ROCE divided by the average of opening and closing Growth, ROCE is a measure of the Groups ability capital employed, where capital employed is to drive better returns for investors on the capital defined as net assets less net funds.
Net funds debt Cash and cash equivalents less borrowings A measure of the Groups net indebtedness adjusted for the fair value of derivatives that that provides an indicator of the overall balance hedge interest rate or currency risk on sheet strength.
Net capital Cash outflows from the purchase of property, A measure of the net amount invested in expenditure plant, equipment and intangible assets less the operational facilities in the period.
proceeds from the disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets.
Constant currency Presentation of reported results translated using A measure of underlying business performance constant rates of exchange.
which excludes the impact of changes in exchange rates used for translation.
165 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 165
