STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or in respect of these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain We have nothing to report disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Report in respect of these matters.
on Remuneration to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
OTHER MATTERS Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 25 May 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is therefore one year.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the parent companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the parent companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the parent company and the parent companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Anna Marks FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 27 February 2019 www.
com 101 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101
