Financial Statements Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 2018 2017 Notes m m Operating activities Cash generated by operations 33 635.0 531.2 Income taxes paid 82.4 45.3 Interest paid 66.3 52.0 Net cash inflow from operating activities 486.3 433.9 Investing activities Interest received 2.1 0.2 Purchase of property and equipment 19 23.4 14.7 Proceeds on disposal of property and equipment 0.4 1.0 Purchase of intangible software assets 30.2 52.2 Product development costs additions 6.2 13.1 Purchase of intangibles related to titles, brands and customer relationships 21.0 30.7 Costs proceeds on disposal of other intangible assets related to titles and brands 3.2 5.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries and operations, net of cash acquired 18 593.6 193.2 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 18 5.3 Acquisition of investment 0.5 0.5 Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and operations 7.4 14.4 Net cash outflow from investing activities 673.5 283.6 Financing activities Dividends paid to Shareholders 14 201.9 162.0 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 14 8.6 2.0 Dividend paid in settlement of UBM acquisition liability 14 59.0 Proceeds from EMTN bond issuance 27 872.7 Repayment of loans 27 1,179.4 1,292.1 New loan advances 27 644.0 1,070.8 Repayment of private placement borrowings 27 101.5 159.7 New private placement borrowings 27 313.6 406.4 Borrowing fees paid 27 10.0 0.7 Cash inflow from other loan receivables 0.2 Cash inflow outflow from the issue purchase of shares 2.0 0.9 Net cash inflow outflow from financing activities 271.9 140.0 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 84.7 10.3 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 8.0 2.3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 28 48.2 40.2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 28 124.9 48.2 Reconciliation of Movement in Net Debt for the year ended 31 December 2018 2018 2017 Notes m m Increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year including cash acquired 27 84.7 10.3 Cash flows from net drawdown of borrowings and derivatives associated with debt instruments 27 539.4 24.9 Increase in net debt resulting from cash flows 454.7 14.6 Borrowings acquired with UBM plc 27 702.6 Other non-cash movements including foreign exchange 27 151.5 126.9 Increase decrease in net debt in the year 1,308.8 112.3 Net debt at beginning of the year 33 1,373.1 1,485.4 Net debt at end of the year 33 2,681.9 1,373.1 150 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
General information Informa PLC the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is a public company limited by shares and is registered in England and Wales with registration number 08860726.
The address of the registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report.
The Consolidated Financial Statements as at 31 December 2018 and for the year then ended comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries and its interests in joint ventures and associates together referred to as the Group.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP, the functional currency of the Parent Company, Informa PLC.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards IAS Regulations.
The Directors have, at the time of approving the Consolidated Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in the Strategic Review on page 73.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and hedged items which are measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below, all of which have been consistently applied to all periods presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity, has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of acquired subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity and consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination plus their share of changes in equity since that date.
Joint ventures are joint arrangements in which the Group has the rights to the net assets through joint control with a third party.
Joint operations arise where there is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control, and where the joint operators have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Associates are undertakings over which the Group exercises significant influence, usually from 2050% of the equity voting rights, in respect of the financial and operating policies.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures and associates using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture or associate is initially measured at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint venture or associate since the acquisition date.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the entity.
The statement of comprehensive income includes the Groups share of any other comprehensive income recognised by the joint venture or associate.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
Where an associate or joint venture has net liabilities, full provision is made for the Groups share of liabilities where there is a constructive or legal obligation to provide additional funding to the associate or joint venture.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 151 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are included in net operating expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the closing rates of exchange.
The income statement results are translated at an average exchange rate, recalculated for each month between that months closing rate and the equivalent for the preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate are taken directly to the translation reserve.
In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign subsidiaries results from monthly average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
The translation movement on matched long-term foreign currency borrowings, qualifying as hedging instruments under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, are also taken directly to the translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the acquisition closing rate.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries and other asset purchases that are assessed as meeting the definition of a business under the rules of IFRS 3 Business Combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
If the accounting for business combinations involves provisional amounts, which are finalised in a subsequent reporting period during the 12-month measurement period as permitted under IFRS 3, restatement of these provisional amounts may be required in the subsequent reporting period.
Acquisition and integration costs incurred are expensed and included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Put option arrangements that allow non-controlling interest Shareholders to require the Group to purchase the non-controlling interest are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are initially recognised at fair value within derivative financial liabilities, with a corresponding charge directly to equity.
Interest rate swaps, forward exchange contracts, put options over noncontrolling interests and other derivatives are classified as financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and are measured at each reporting date at fair value.
Changes in the fair values are included in profit or loss within financing income expense unless the instrument has been designated as a hedging instrument.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is classified as a financial liability that is within the scope of IFRS 9 will be recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest either at fair value under the full goodwill method or at the proportionate 152 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
This is then revalued at the year end rate with any foreign exchange difference taken directly to the translation reserve.
Disposal At the date of a disposal, or loss of control, joint control or significant influence over a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the Group derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the entity, with the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest and any cumulative translation differences recorded in equity.
The fair value of consideration including the fair value of any investment retained is recognised.
The consequent profit or loss on disposal that is not disclosed as a discontinued operation is recognised in profit and loss within profit or loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations.
Equity transactions Where there is a change of ownership of a subsidiary without a change of control, the difference between the consideration and the relevant share of the carrying amount of net assets acquired or disposed of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
The carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount at which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration is recognised directly in equity.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers provides a single, principles-based five-step model to be applied to all sales contracts.
It is based on the transfer of control of goods and services to customers and replaces the separate models for goods, services and construction contracts previously included in IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IAS 18 Revenue.
The major change is the requirement to identify and assess the satisfaction of delivery of each performance obligation in contracts in order to recognise revenue.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes, and provisions for returns and cancellations.
Subscription income for online services, information and journals is normally received in advance and is therefore deferred and recognised evenly over the term of the subscription.
Revenue from exhibitions, trade shows, conferences and learning events, together with attendee fees and event sponsorship, is recognised when the event is held, with advance receipts recognised as deferred income in the Balance Sheet.
Transaction prices for performance obligations are fixed within contracts and for example relate to an event attendee ticket or exhibition stand.
Where material, transaction prices and discounts are appropriately allocated between performance obligations based on the market price of products.
Unit sales revenue is recognised on the sale of books and related publications when title passes, depending on the terms of the sales agreement.
The performance obligations for subscription and unit sales revenue streams are distinct within customer contracts.
The performance obligations are to deliver goods, deliver subscription contracts over time, or provide access to databases either on a one-off basis or over a period of time.
If access is indefinite then revenue is recognised at the point access is provided.
Transaction prices for performance obligations are fixed within contracts and each book or journal has a value and each subscription has a value.
A provision is recognised for future returns and is debited against revenue for subscriptions and unit sales.
The cost of processing returns is immaterial.
Marketing and advertising services revenues are recognised on issue of the related publication, over the period of the advertising subscription or over the period when the marketing service is provided.
The performance obligations are distinct, being events held or publications issued.
Transaction prices for performance obligations are fixed within contracts and recognised in line with the performance obligations.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 153 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Revenue relating to barter transactions is recorded at fair value and recognised in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition policies.
Expenses from barter transactions are recorded at fair value and recognised as incurred.
Barter transactions typically involve the trading of advertisements and trade show space in exchange for services provided at events.
Due to the nature of the business, there is an immaterial value of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations and there are no material contract assets or liabilities arising on work performed in order to deliver performance obligations.
Pension costs and pension scheme arrangements Certain Group companies operate defined contribution pension schemes for colleagues.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from the individual companies.
The pension cost charge associated with these schemes represents contributions payable and is charged as an expense when incurred.
The Group also operates funded defined benefit schemes for colleagues.
The cost of providing these benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at regular intervals.
There is no service cost due to the fact that these schemes are closed to future accrual.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the opening net defined benefit liability or asset and shown in finance costs, and the administration costs are shown as a component of operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet represents the actual deficit or surplus in the Groups defined benefit plans.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain colleagues.
These are measured at fair value at date of grant.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate.
For awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, where the proportion of the award is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the fair value is measured using a Monte Carlo model of valuation, which is considered to be the most appropriate valuation technique.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Where the proportion of the award is dependent on earnings per share performance conditions, which are non-market-based measures, the fair value is remeasured at each reporting date to reflect updates for expected or actual performance.
For awards issued under ShareMatch, the fair value is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised over the vesting period, with the fair value remeasured at each reporting date and any changes recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Own shares are deducted in arriving at total equity and represent the cost of the Companys Ordinary Shares acquired by the Employee Share Trust EST and ShareMatch in connection with certain of the Groups colleague share schemes.
Interest income Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
154 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.
The Group is a multinational group with tax liabilities arising in many geographic locations.
This inherently leads to complexity in the Groups tax structure.
Therefore, the calculation of the Groups current tax liabilities and tax expense necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period identified.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and businesses is calculated as the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
It is recognised as an asset at cost, assessed for impairment at least annually and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Fair value measurements are based on provisional estimates and may be subject to amendment within one year of the acquisition in line with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, resulting in an adjustment to goodwill.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 155 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units CGUs, as determined by the Executive Directors, which are expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired.
In 2018, the Group revised the approach to impairment testing of goodwill to reflect a change in the level at which goodwill is monitored.
This reflects the completion of the Groups 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan in which the operating structure of the business changed to four market facing Operating Divisions plus the UBM Division, with monitoring of goodwill now undertaken at the segment level representing an aggregation of CGUs rather than at the individual CGU level.
As 2018 is the year of change in the approach for goodwill impairment testing we have undertaken testing at both the former CGU level and the new segment level.
Where an impairment test is performed, the carrying value is compared with the recoverable amount which is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is the present value of future cash flows and is calculated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on the cash flows of the CGU compared with the carrying value of that CGU, including goodwill.
The Group estimates the discount rates as the risk-adjusted cost of capital for the particular CGUs.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the composition of its CGUs to reflect the impact of changes to cash inflows associated with reorganisations of its reporting structure.
On disposal of a business which includes all or part of a CGU, any attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
For intangible assets acquired in business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodologies Note 17.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis, as follows: 1 Book lists 20 years 1 Journal titles 20 years Brands and trademarks 530 years Customer relationships databases and intellectual property 530 years Non-compete agreements 13 years Software 310 years Product development 35 years 1.
Or licence period if shorter.
Software which is not integral to a related item of hardware is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and other direct costs for employees who devote substantial time to the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases when the project is substantially complete and available for use.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives.
Product development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of certain conditions are met, with all research costs and other development expenditure being expensed when incurred.
The capitalisation criteria are: an asset is created that can be separately identified, and which the Group intends to use or sell: it is technically feasible to complete the development of the asset for use or sale: it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefit: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives excluding goodwill.
156 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Property and equipment Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property and equipment on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The rates of depreciation on other assets are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 315 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if: their carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale, rather than continuing use: they are available for immediate sale: and the sale is highly probable.
A disposal group consists of assets that are to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise, in a single transaction together with the directly associated liabilities.
Goodwill arising from business combinations is included for CGUs which are part of the disposal group.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets or components of a disposal group are remeasured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment on a disposal group is first allocated to goodwill and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro-rata basis.
Impairment on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment.
No amortisation or depreciation is charged on non-current assets including those in disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Assets classified as held for sale are disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet and classified as current assets or liabilities, with disposal groups being separated between assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset, for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 157 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Investments in joint ventures and associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method and stated in the Balance Sheet at cost adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets, less any impairments in value.
Other investments Other investments are entities over which the Group does not have significant influence where the Group holds less than 20% interest in the voting interests of the entity.
Other investments are classified as assets held at fair value through profit and loss, with changes in fair value reported in the income statement.
Inventory Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and expenses incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less marketing and distribution costs expected to be incurred.
Pre-publication costs are included in inventory, representing costs incurred in the origination of content prior to publication.
These are expensed systematically, reflecting the expected sales profile over the estimated economic lives of the related products typically over one to five years.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases would be capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease and depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in equal annual amounts on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives where these are received from the lessor, such as rent-free periods and contributions to leasehold improvements, are treated as a reduction in lease rental expense and spread over the term of the lease.
Rental income from sub-leasing property space is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised in the Groups Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: trade and other receivables, and cash at bank and on hand.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables and other receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and balances with banks and similar institutions.
Cash equivalents comprise bank deposits and money market funds, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and with a maturity of three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
158 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been negatively impacted.
For unlisted shares classified as fair value through profit or loss, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets, objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or a probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
For certain categories of financial assets, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 30 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with increased default risk on receivables.
A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The Group always recognises lifetime expected credit losses ECL for trade receivables and contract assets.
The ECL on these financial assets are estimated based on the Groups historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time value of money where appropriate.
For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition.
However, if the credit risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month ECL.
Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument.
In contrast, 12-month ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the provision account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the provision are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 159 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Borrowings Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs and stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The amortised cost calculation is revised when necessary to reflect changes in the expected cash flows and the expected life of the borrowings including the effects of the exercise of any prepayment, call or similar options.
Any resulting adjustment to the carrying amount of the borrowings is recognised as interest expense in the income statement.
Net debt Net debt consists of cash and cash equivalents and includes bank overdrafts, borrowings, derivatives associated with debt instruments, and other loan receivables where these are interest bearing and do not relate to deferred consideration arrangements and finance leases.
Debt issue costs Debt issue costs, including premium payable on settlement or redemption, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade and other payables Trade payables and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, as set out above, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The derivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of a change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedge : hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the Consolidated Income Statement relating to the hedged item.
160 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Cash flow hedge Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated, and effective cash flow hedges of forecast transactions are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified into the Consolidated Income Statement out of other comprehensive income in the same period when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations Hedges of net investment in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument in relation to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item is disposed of.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as they arise.
Discontinuation of hedge accounting Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Notes 24 and 32.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Any difference between the amounts previously recognised and the current estimates is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties or implementation has commenced.
Use of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP measures In addition to the statutory results, adjusted results are prepared for the income statement, including adjusted operating profit and adjusted diluted earnings per share, as the Board considers these non-GAAP measures to be the most appropriate way to measure the Groups performance in a way that is comparable to the prior year.
Adjusted results Notes 8 and 15 The Group presents adjusted results Note 8 and adjusted diluted earnings per share Note 15 to provide additional useful information on business performance trends to Shareholders.
These results are used for performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
Adjusted results exclude items that are commonly excluded across the media sector: amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets relating to businesses acquired and other intangible asset purchases of titles and exhibitions, acquisition and integration costs, profit or loss on disposal of businesses, restructuring costs and other items that in the opinion of the Directors would distort underlying results.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRSs and may not therefore be comparable to similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
Refer to Note 8 for details of adjusting items recorded for the year and reconciled to statutory operating profit.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 161 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Adoption of new and revised IFRS Standards and interpretations adopted in the current year The accounting policies, significant judgements and key sources of estimation adopted in the preparation of the condensed set of Consolidated Financial Statements are consistent with those applied by the Group in its Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 except for the adoption of new standards and interpretations effective as of 1 January 2018 listed below.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Interpretation IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle Amendments to IAS 40: Transfer of Investment Property With the exception of IFRS 15, the adoption of these standards and interpretations has not led to any significant changes to the Groups accounting policies or had any other material impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Following an assessment of the financial impact of the changes required from the adoption of this new standard, there is no material change to the Consolidated Income Statement of the Group.
The change only affects the recognition of consultancy revenue within the Business Intelligence Division, where we are no longer able to recognise revenue over the course of a contract, but instead must recognise revenue once consultancy performance obligations have been delivered.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet has been adjusted by the requirement to net down the contract liabilities against trade receivables for amounts that have been invoiced but are not yet due, together with the restatement of unbilled income see Note 4.
The Group adopted IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018 using the full retrospective approach.
As a result, the prior period results have been restated as detailed in Note 4.
Other amendments to IFRS effective for the period ended 31 December 2018 have no impact on the Group.
Standards and interpretations in issue, but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: Effective from 1 January 2019: IFRS 16 Leases EU endorsed Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures EU endorsed IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments EU endorsed Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation EU endorsed Annual improvements to IFRS standards 2015-2017 cycle not yet EU endorsed Amendements to IAS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlements not yet EU endorsed Other items applicable in subsequent periods: IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts not yet EU endorsed Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards not yet EU endorsed Amendment to IFRS 3: Business Combinations not yet EU endorsed Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8: Definition of Material not yet EU endorsed The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except as described below in relation to IFRS 16 Leases.
162 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements IFRS 16 Leases effective for the 2019 financial year will replace the existing leasing standard, IAS 17 Leases.
It will treat all leases in a consistent way, eliminating the distinction between operating and finance leases, and require lessees to recognise all leases, except for low value leases and those with a term of less than 12 months, on the Balance Sheet.
The most significant effect of the new requirements will be an increase in lease assets and lease liabilities for leases currently categorised as operating leases.
The new standard also changes the nature of expenses related to those leases, replacing the straight line operating lease expense with a depreciation charge for the right-of-use lease asset included within operating costs and an interest expense on the finance lease liability included within finance costs.
Adoption of IFRS 16 is expected to result in an increase in assets of between 300m to 320m and a corresponding increase in liabilities of between 300m and 320m as at 1 January 2019.
Operating profit for the year ending 31 December 2019 is estimated to increase by between 4m and 6m, being the difference between the lease expense and depreciation, and profit before tax will decrease by between 7m and 9m, reflecting a higher total lease interest expense in the initial years.
Profit after tax is estimated to decrease by between 6m and 8m and adjusted diluted earnings per share and diluted earnings per share will decrease approximately between 0.4p and 0.6p.
Note 38 provides further information on the Groups operating lease obligations.
There are several practical expedients and exemptions available under IFRS 16.
The Group has elected to apply the modified retrospective method of implementation where there is no restatement of the comparative period and using the practical expedient where, at the adoption date, right-of-use lease assets are set to equal the lease liabilities.
The Group will exclude leases of low value assets and short-term leases, with a duration of less than 12 months from the application of IFRS 16, with payments for these leases continuing to be expensed directly to the income statement as operating leases.
The major classes of leases impacted by the new standard are property and event space leases.
The half-year results for the six months ending 30 June 2019 will include an update on the actual impact of IFRS 16.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Critical accounting judgements In addition to the judgement taken by the Group in selecting and applying the accounting policies set out above, the Directors have made the following judgements concerning the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Identification of cash generating units Note 16 For impairment testing purposes, judgement is used to allocate goodwill to the specific groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from this goodwill.
When there are changes in business structure, judgement is required to identify any changes to the CGU groups, taking account of the lowest level of independent cash inflows being generated, amongst other factors.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised.
Impairment of assets Note 16 Identifying indicators of asset impairment involves estimating future cash flows based on a good understanding of the drivers of value behind the asset.
At each reporting period, an assessment is performed to determine whether there are any such indicators of impairment, which involves considering the performance of our businesses, any significant changes to the markets in which we operate, and future forecasts.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 163 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued The Group has considered a number of assumptions in performing impairment reviews of assets, which can be found in Note 16.
The determination of whether assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGU groups to which assets have been allocated, except where a fair value less costs to sell methodology is applied.
The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from each CGU group, using three-year projections and determining a suitable discount rate to calculate present value and the long-term growth rate.
The Directors are satisfied that the Groups CGU groups have a value in use in excess of their Balance Sheet carrying value.
The sensitivities considered by the Directors for CGUs that have less headroom are described in Note 16.
Valuation of separately identifiable intangible assets Notes 17 and 18 To determine the value of separately identifiable intangible assets on a business combination, and deferred tax on these intangibles, the Group is required to make estimates when utilising valuation methodologies.
These methodologies include the use of discounted cash flows, revenue forecasts and the estimates for the useful economic lives of intangible assets.
There are significant estimates involved in assessing what amounts are recognised as the estimated fair value of assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations, particularly the amounts attributed to separate intangible assets such as titles, brands, acquired customer lists and associated customer relationships.
These estimates impact the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisitions.
Any provisional amounts are subsequently finalised within the 12-month measurement period, as permitted by IFRS 3.
In 2018, the significant estimates are in relation to the acquisitions of UBM plc and ICON Advisory Group, Ltd.
The Group has built considerable knowledge of these valuation techniques, and for major acquisitions, defined as when consideration is 75m or above, the Group also considers the advice of third party independent valuers to identify and support the valuation of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Details of acquisitions in the year in relation to this are set out in Note 18.
Contingent consideration Notes 18 and 30 When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities from a contingent consideration arrangement, it is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination.
The contingent consideration is based on future business valuations and profit multiples and has been estimated on an acquisition by acquisition basis using available profit forecasts.
The higher the profit forecast, the higher the fair value of any contingent consideration subject to any maximum payout clauses.
Changes in fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
These adjustments will result in a restatement to previous reported results if the changes relate to amounts arising in previously reported periods.
Measurement of retirement benefit obligations Note 34 The measurement of the retirement benefit obligation and surplus involves the use of a number of assumptions.
The most significant of these relate to the discount rate, the rate of increase in salaries and pension and mortality assumptions.
The most significant scheme is the UBM Pension Scheme UBMPS.
Note 34 details the principal assumptions which have been adopted following advice received from independent actuaries and also provides sensitivity analysis with regards to changes to these assumptions.
164 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 4.
Restatement The results for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated following the adoption in 2018 of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
This resulted in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2017 being adjusted for the reclassification of 72.1m of deferred income against trade receivables, for amounts that have been invoiced and where services have not yet been provided and amounts are not yet due, together with the adjustment for unbilled income described below.
There were also restatements to the 2017 income statement from amounts previously recognised on a percentage complete basis.
This resulted in reductions of 0.8m to revenue, 0.6m to profit before tax and 0.5m to profit after tax.
These adjustments only affected the Business Intelligence Division.
This resulted in basic earnings per share being restated from 37.8p per share to 37.7p per share, diluted earnings per share being restated from 37.7p to 37.6p and adjusted diluted earnings per share being restated from 46.1p to 46.0p.
Consolidated Balance Sheet: as at 31 December 2017 restatement IFRS 15 Adjustments: IFRS 15 Previously Percentage Adjustments: reported complete Net-down Restated m m m m Non-current assets 4,356.6 4,356.6 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 401.1 2.9 72.1 326.1 Other current assets 134.4 134.4 Total assets 4,892.1 2.9 72.1 4,817.1 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 297.2 0.6 296.6 Current liabilities: Deferred income 534.6 72.1 462.5 Other current liabilities 358.6 358.6 Non-current deferred tax liabilities 251.6 0.6 251.0 Other non-current liabilities 1,219.4 1,219.4 Total liabilities 2,661.4 1.2 72.1 2,588.1 Net assets 2,230.7 1.7 2,229.0 Consolidated Income Statement: for the year ended 31 December 2017 restatement Previously reported Restated Adjusted Adjusting Statutory IFRS 15 Adjusted Adjusting Statutory results items results adjustments results items results 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m Revenue 1,757.6 1,757.6 0.8 1,756.8 1,756.8 Net operating expenses 1,212.1 200.2 1,412.3 0.2 1,211.9 200.2 1,412.1 Operating profit loss 545.5 200.2 345.3 0.6 544.9 200.2 344.7 Profit loss before tax 486.4 217.6 268.8 0.6 485.8 217.6 268.2 Tax charge credit 103.1 148.0 44.9 0.1 103.0 148.0 45.0 Profit loss for the period 383.3 69.6 313.7 0.5 382.8 69.6 313.2 Earnings per share Basic p 46.3 37.8 46.2 37.7 Diluted p 46.1 37.7 46.0 37.6 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 165 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 4.
Restatement continued Segment revenue and results restatement of 2017 The tables below set out the previously reported amounts and restated amounts for each segment for the year ended 31 December 2017: Academic Business Global Knowledge & Publishing Intelligence Exhibitions Networking Unallocated Total m m m m m m Revenue Previously reported 530.0 384.2 560.4 283.0 1,757.6 IFRS 15 restatement 0.8 0.8 Restated 530.0 383.4 560.4 283.0 1,756.8 Operating profit loss Previously reported 154.1 47.8 126.2 17.2 345.3 IFRS 15 restatement 0.6 0.6 Restated 154.1 47.2 126.2 17.2 344.7 Adjusted operating profit Previously reported 208.0 92.2 201.4 43.9 545.5 IFRS 15 restatement 0.6 0.6 Restated 208.0 91.6 201.4 43.9 544.9 Segment assets Previously reported 1,157.9 1,144.5 1,898.7 558.2 132.8 4,892.1 IFRS 15 net-down adjustment 16.0 30.1 20.9 7.8 2.7 72.1 IFRS 15 other adjustment 2.9 2.9 Restated 1,141.9 1,111.5 1,877.8 550.4 135.5 4,817.1 5.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2017 1 2018 restated m m Exhibitor 921.1 433.2 Subscriptions 583.1 566.7 Unit sales 279.9 278.0 Attendee 226.5 177.2 Marketing and advertising services 219.2 182.0 Sponsorship 139.7 119.7 Total revenue 2,369.5 1,756.8 1.
2017 restated for classification changes including the implementation of IFRS 15 see Note 4.
166 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 6. Business segments Business segments The Group has identified reportable segments based on financial information used by the Executive Directors in allocating resources and making strategic decisions.
We consider the chief operating decision maker to be the two Executive Directors.
The Groups five identified reportable segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are as described in the Strategic Report.
UBM is a new reportable segment in 2018 following acquisition of the business on 15 June 2018 see Note 18.
Segment revenue and results The Groups primary internal income statement performance measures for business segments are revenue and adjusted operating profit.
A reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to statutory operating profit and profit before tax is provided below: Year ended 31 December 2018 Global Academic Business Knowledge & 2 Exhibitions Publishing Intelligence Networking UBM Total m m m m m m Revenue 575.8 533.2 385.6 261.4 613.5 2,369.5 Adjusted operating profit before joint ventures and associates 200.3 198.4 91.1 39.8 201.5 731.1 Share of adjusted results of joint ventures and associates Note 20 0.2 0.1 1.1 1.0 Adjusted operating profit 200.1 198.4 91.1 39.9 202.6 732.1 1 Intangible asset amortisation 67.5 52.7 22.8 15.6 85.0 243.6 Impairment Note 17 5.7 4.1 9.8 Acquisition and integration costs Note 8 2.5 0.7 1.5 0.6 83.6 88.9 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 0.9 6.7 4.5 1.0 13.1 Subsequent remeasurement of contingent consideration Note 8 2.0 7.3 9.2 0.1 UAE VAT charge Note 8 9.1 9.1 GMP equalisation Note 8 0.3 0.2 4.0 4.5 Operating profit 116.4 138.3 69.3 9.2 30.0 363.2 Profit on disposal of businesses Note 21 1.1 Investment income Note 11 8.2 Finance costs Note 12 90.4 Profit before tax 282.1 1.
Excludes acquired intangible product development and software amortisation.
UBM segment results are for the post-acquisition period to 31 December 2018 see Note 18.
2 Year ended 31 December 2017 restated Global Academic Business Knowledge & 2 Exhibitions Publishing Intelligence Networking Total m m m m m Revenue 560.4 530.0 383.4 283.0 1,756.8 Adjusted operating profit before joint ventures and associates 201.4 208.0 91.6 43.9 544.9 Share of adjusted results of joint ventures and associates Note 20 Adjusted operating profit 201.4 208.0 91.6 43.9 544.9 1 Intangible asset amortisation Note 17 66.7 50.1 24.0 17.0 157.8 Impairment Note 8 0.4 2.0 3.2 5.6 Acquisition and integration costs Note 8 6.7 1.5 10.2 5.6 24.0 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 8 1.2 0.3 7.0 4.4 12.9 Subsequent remeasurement of contingent consideration Note 8 0.2 0.3 0.1 Operating profit 126.2 154.1 47.2 17.2 344.7 Loss on disposal of businesses Note 21 17.4 Investment income Note 11 0.2 Finance costs Note 12 59.3 Profit before tax 268.2 1.
2017 restated for implementation of IFRS 15 see Note 4.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 167 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 6. Business segments continued The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 2.
Adjusted operating result by operating segment is the measure reported to the Executive Directors for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Finance costs and investment income are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity is driven by the central Treasury function, which manages the cash positions of the Group.
Segment assets 31 December 31 December 2017 1 2018 restated m m Academic Publishing 1,022.5 1,141.9 Business Intelligence 1,127.4 1,111.5 Global Exhibitions 1,803.3 1,877.8 Knowledge & Networking 517.2 550.4 UBM 6,186.7 Total segment assets 10,657.1 4,681.6 Unallocated assets 308.9 135.5 Total assets 10,966.0 4,817.1 1.
For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, the Group monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment.
All assets are allocated to reportable segments except for certain centrally held balances and held for sale assets, including some intangible software assets relating to Group infrastructure, balances receivable from businesses sold and taxation current and deferred.
Assets used jointly by reportable segments are allocated on the basis of the revenues earned by individual reportable segments.
Segment revenue by type The Groups revenues from its major products and services were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 Global Academic Business Knowledge & 2 Exhibitions Publishing Intelligence Networking UBM Total m m m m m m Exhibitor 408.8 40.6 471.7 921.1 Subscriptions 282.3 286.1 14.7 583.1 Unit sales 250.9 29.0 279.9 Attendee 61.6 107.0 57.9 226.5 Marketing and advertising services 63.7 70.5 39.4 45.6 219.2 Sponsorship 41.7 74.4 23.6 139.7 Total 575.8 533.2 385.6 261.4 613.5 2,369.5 1 Year ended 31 December 2017 Global Academic Business Knowledge & Exhibitions Publishing Intelligence Networking Total m m m m m Exhibitor 385.9 47.3 433.2 Subscriptions 279.1 287.6 566.7 Unit sales 250.9 27.1 278.0 Attendee 57.5 119.7 177.2 Marketing and advertising services 71.3 68.7 42.0 182.0 Sponsorship 45.7 74.0 119.7 Total 560.4 530.0 383.4 283.0 1,756.8 1.
168 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Geographic information The Groups revenue by location of customer and information about its segment assets by geographic location are detailed below: Revenue Segment assets 2017 2017 1 1 2018 restated 2018 restated m m m m UK 182.2 153.1 7,352.1 1,386.7 Continental Europe 297.8 236.7 68.2 69.7 North America 1,135.5 939.1 3,226.0 3,080.9 China including Hong Kong 317.2 77.1 124.6 98.4 Rest of World 436.8 350.8 195.1 181.4 2,369.5 1,756.8 10,966.0 4,817.1 1.
No individual customer contributes more than 10% of the Groups revenue in either 2018 or 2017.
Operating profit Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Adjusted Adjusting Statutory Adjusted Adjusting Statutory results items results 1 1 1 results items results restated restated restated 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Notes m m m m m m Cost of sales 780.8 780.8 537.2 537.2 Staff costs excluding adjusting items 9 596.8 596.8 467.8 467.8 Amortisation of other intangible assets 17 42.5 243.6 286.1 24.8 157.8 182.6 Impairment goodwill 8 3.4 3.4 Impairment intangibles 8 9.8 9.8 2.2 2.2 Depreciation 19 13.1 13.1 9.2 9.2 Acquisition-related costs 8 42.9 42.9 4.4 4.4 2 Integration-related costs 8 46.0 46.0 19.6 19.6 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 8 13.1 13.1 12.9 12.9 Subsequent remeasurement of contingent consideration 8 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Operating lease expense Land and buildings 38 35.0 35.0 26.7 26.7 Other 38 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.1 UAE VAT charge 8 9.1 9.1 GMP equalisation 8 4.5 4.5 Net foreign exchange loss 7.6 7.6 4.9 4.9 Auditors remuneration for audit services 3.2 3.2 2.1 2.1 Other operating expenses 158.4 158.4 138.1 138.1 Total net operating expenses before joint ventures and associates 1,638.4 368.9 2,007.3 1,211.9 200.2 1,412.1 1.
Integration costs include 3.8m of impairment of other intangible assets.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 169 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 7.
Operating profit continued Amounts payable to the auditor and its associates, Deloitte LLP, by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings are provided below: 2018 2017 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 2.4 1.7 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.8 0.4 Total audit fees 3.2 2.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for non-audit services comprises: Transaction support services 2.6 Half-year review 0.2 0.1 Taxation services 0.1 Other services 0.1 1 Total non-audit fees 2.8 0.3 1.
I n addition to these amounts for 2018 there were non-audit fees totalling 1.6m for UBM fees paid to the Companys auditors in the pre-acquisition period from 1 January 2018 to 14 June 2018.
These related to 1.5m of spend supporting the development of the global Sales Solution Salesforce as part of the Events First Strategy, and the change management of the global marketing model within the Events First Sales and Marketing programme.
The remaining 0.1m is related to spend on tax and other services which were concluded in accordance with applicable independence guidelines.
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company are included in the consolidated disclosures above.
The Audit Committee approves all non-audit services within the Companys policy.
The Audit Committee approved the use of the auditor for transaction support services in relation to the reporting requirements associated with the Companys acquisition of UBM plc, having concluded that the auditor was best placed to perform these services due to its knowledge of the Company and the timescales involved.
The Committee considers that certain non-audit services should be provided by the external auditor, because its existing knowledge of the business makes this the most efficient and effective way for those non-audit services to be carried out.
In 2018 the non-audit fees paid to Deloitte, excluding any pre-acquisition Deloitte fees incurred by UBM in 2018, totalled 2.8m 2017: 0.3m, which represented 88% 2017: 14% of the 2018 audit fee.
The majority of non-audit fees in 2018 related to the UBM project where there was 2.6m of accounting services required for the UBM acquisition.
In awarding this non-audit work to Deloitte, the Committee took account of Deloittes knowledge of the Group as auditor, the benefits of Deloitte reviewing the financial data in detail before the announcement, and considered Deloitte able to provide an effective service.
In the prior year, other services relate to services provided by Market Gravity Limited, a training organisation which was acquired by Deloitte on 31 May 2017.
Market Gravity Limited was contracted by Informa, prior to the acquisition by Deloitte, to support in delivering the London Tech Week Innovation Mini MBA from 1216 June.
Knowledge & Networking engaged Market Gravity Limited for a further three events in 2017.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 107 to 112 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
No services were provided under contingent fee arrangements.
170 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 8.
Adjusting items The Board considers certain items should be recognised as adjusting items since, due to their nature or infrequency, such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the Groups performance.
These items do not relate to the Groups underlying trading and are adjusted from the Groups adjusted operating profit measure.
The following charges credits are presented as adjusting items: 2018 2017 Notes m m Intangible amortisation and impairment Intangible asset amortisation 17 243.6 157.8 Impairment goodwill 16 3.4 Impairment acquisition-related intangible assets 17 9.8 2.2 Acquisition costs 7 42.9 4.4 Integration costs 7 46.0 19.6 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 7 Redundancy costs 7.3 5.7 Reorganisation costs 0.8 1.0 Vacant property costs 5.0 6.2 Subsequent re measurement of contingent consideration 7 0.1 0.1 UAE VAT charge 9.1 GMP equalisation charge 34 4.5 Adjusting items in operating profit 368.9 200.2 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 21 1.1 17.4 Investment income 11 1.2 Finance costs 12 1.0 Adjusting items in profit before tax 367.6 217.6 Tax related to adjusting items 13 55.7 62.6 Tax adjusting item for US federal tax reform 13 85.4 Adjusting items in profit for the year 311.9 69.6 The principal adjusting items are in respect of: intangible asset amortisation the amortisation charges in respect of intangible assets acquired through business combinations or the acquisition of trade and assets: impairment the Group tests for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently when an indicator exists.
Impairment charges are individually disclosed and are excluded from adjusted results: acquisition costs are the costs and fees incurred by the Group in acquiring businesses and totalled 42.9m, with 41.1m relating to the UBM plc acquisition and 1.8m for other acquisitions: integration costs related to the costs incurred by the Group in integrating share and asset acquisitions.
Integration costs totalled 46.0m, with 39.5m relating to the acquisition of UBM plc: restructuring and reorganisation costs these costs are incurred by the Group in business restructuring and operating model changes.
These include vacant property costs arising from restructuring activities: subsequent remeasurement of contingent consideration is recognised in the year as a charge or credit to the Consolidated Income Statement unless qualifying as a measurement period adjustment arising within one year from the acquisition date: following the introduction of Value Added Tax on 1 January 2018 in the UAE the Group identified and reported an underpayment during 2018 and made a correcting payment.
In January 2019 the UAE tax authorities assessed a tax penalty of 9.1m in relation to the late payment.
The Group is disputing this penalty assessment: however, an amount of 9.1m has been provided for within adjusting items in the year: GMP equalisation charge relates to the additional pension liability arising in the UK from the requirement to equalise the guaranteed element of pensions as described in Note 34: profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations the profit on disposal primarily relates to the 5.4m profit on disposal from the release of indemnity provisions associated with the disposal of PR Newswire that UBM plc completed in 2016, partly offset by the 3.3m loss on disposal of ehi Live, see Note 21 for further details: investment income of 1.2m relates to the fair value gain on derivatives relating to the EMTN during the unhedged period see Note 11 : finance costs of 1.0m relate to the one-off refinancing costs associated with the UBM plc acquisition see Note 12 : and the tax items relate to the tax effect on the items above and are analysed in Note 13.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 171 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 9.
Staff numbers and costs The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by segment, was as follows: Number of employees 2018 2017 Academic Publishing 2,205 2,137 Business Intelligence 2,338 2,549 Global Exhibitions 1,772 1,519 Knowledge & Networking 1,241 1,334 1 UBM 2,276 Total 9,832 7,539 1.
T he average number of persons for UBM represents the average number for the period of ownership divided by 12 months.
If UBM had been owned for the whole year the average would have been approximately 3,639 and the total for the Group would have been 11,195.
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 526.2 413.3 Social security costs 46.2 37.0 Pension costs associated with staff charged to adjusted operating profit Note 34 15.3 10.6 Share-based payments Note 10 9.1 6.9 Staff costs excluding adjusting items 596.8 467.8 Redundancy costs 7.3 5.7 GMP equalisation charge Note 34 4.5 608.6 473.5 The remuneration of Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Note 39.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 113 to 125.
2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits 4.1 3.7 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments Note 10 2.0 1.7 6.4 5.7 172 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 10.
Share-based payments The Group recognised total expenses of 9.1m 2017: 6.9m related to share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31December 2018 with 7.1m 2017: 4.8m relating to equity-settled LTIPs, 1.0m 2017: 0.6m relating to equity-settled ShareMatch and 1.0m 2017: 1.5m relating to cash-settled awards.
The Groups Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIP provide for nil-cost options and have a grant price used in the valuation of the awards equal to the closing share price from the day prior to the grant date.
The performance period is three years starting with the year in which the grant is made.
LTIP awards are conditional share awards with specific performance conditions.
To the extent that they are met or satisfied then awards will be exercisable following the end of the relevant performance period.
LTIP allocations are equitysettled and will lapse if the colleague leaves the Group before an LTIP grant is exercisable, unless the employee meets certain eligibility criteria.
Long-Term Incentive Plans The 2018 LTIP award was granted on 22 March 2018, with the 2017 LTIP award granted on 15 March 2017 and the 2016 LTIP award granted on 17 March 2016.
The performance conditions for each of these awards to Executive Directors are relative total shareholder return TSR for FTSE 51150 constituents, excluding financial services and commodities, earnings per share EPS and compound annual growth rate CAGR.
The movement during the year is as follows: 2018 2017 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at 1 January 2,931,757 2,897,323 LTIPs granted in the year 2,354,031 1,223,006 LTIPs exercised in the year 161,878 279,035 LTIPs lapsed in the year 51,020 909,537 Outstanding at 31 December 5,072,890 2,931,757 Exercisable awards included in outstanding number at 31 December 1,182,939 414,227 The TSR award components of the LTIPs were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo simulation model for the LTIP performance conditions are: Share price at Expected Expected life Risk-free 1 2 grant date volatility years rate 8 September 2014 4.77 20.0% 3 0.9% 13 February 2015 4.86 21.0% 3 0.8% 17 March 2016 6.37 20.4% 3 0.6% 15 March 2017 6.52 20.0% 3 0.1% 22 March 2018 7.19 19.1% 3 0.9% 1.
Share price at grant restated for bonus element of 2016 rights issue.
From 1 January of year in which grant was made.
In order to satisfy share awards granted under the LTIP, the share capital would need to be increased by 4,508,800 shares 2017:2,543,639 shares taking account of the 564,091 shares 2017: 388,118 shares held in the Employee Share Trust Note 36.
The Company will satisfy the awards either through the issue of additional share capital or the purchase of shares as needed on the open market.
The weighted average share price during the year was 7.40 2017: 6.81.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on the Groups best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 173 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 10.
Share-based payments continued ShareMatch Share Incentive Plan In June 2014, the Company launched ShareMatch, a global Share Incentive Plan tax qualifying in the UK, under which eligible colleagues can invest up to the limit of 1,800 per annum in the Companys shares.
The Scheme includes a matching element, whereby for every one share purchased by the colleague, the Company will award the participant one matching share.
Matching shares are subject to forfeiture if the purchased shares are withdrawn from the Scheme within three years of purchase or if the colleague leaves the Group, unless the reason for leaving is due to restructuring or retirement.
In addition, both the purchased and matching shares are eligible to receive any dividends payable by the Company, which are reinvested in more shares.
Employee subscriptions can be made on a monthly or one-off lump sum basis and matching shares are purchased on a monthly basis, through a UK Trust.
Further details are set out in the remuneration section of the financial statements.
2018 ShareMatch 2017 Number of ShareMatch share Number of awards share awards Outstanding at 1 January 273,560 141,814 Purchased in the year 178,148 147,785 Transferred to participants in the year 39,896 16,039 Outstanding at 31 December 411,812 273,560 11.
Investment income 2018 2017 m m Interest income on bank deposits 3.8 0.2 Fair value gain on financial instruments through the income statement 3.2 Investment income before adjusting items 7.0 0.2 Adjusting item: fair value gain on derivatives associated with EMTN borrowings 1.2 Total investment income 8.2 0.2 12.
Finance costs 2018 2017 Note m m 1 Interest expense on borrowings and loans 87.6 58.1 Interest cost on pension scheme net liabilities 34 1.1 1.1 Total interest expense 88.7 59.2 Fair value loss on financial instruments through the income statement 0.7 0.1 Financing costs before adjusting items 89.4 59.3 2 Adjusting item: financing expense associated with UBM plc acquisition 1.0 Total financing expense 90.4 59.3 1.
Included in interest expense above is the amortisation of debt issue costs of 2.5m 2017: 2.2m.
T he adjusting item for finance income relates to a 1.0m charge related to the amortisation of the fees associated with the UBM plc Revolving Credit Facility that was repaid in June 2018.
174 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 13.
Taxation The tax charge credit comprises: 2017 1 2018 restated m m Current tax: UK 40.5 30.7 Continental Europe 13.4 0.6 US excluding US federal tax reform 7.9 3.4 US charge arising from US federal tax reform 9.2 China including Hong Kong 26.2 3.9 Rest of World 9.3 4.3 Current year 81.5 50.9 Deferred tax: Current year 21.0 0.9 Credit arising from US federal tax reform 94.6 Credit arising from UK Corporation Tax rate change 0.4 Total deferred tax 21.0 95.9 Total tax charge credit on profit on ordinary activities 60.5 45.0 1.
The tax adjusting items within the Consolidated Income Statement relates to the following: Gross Tax Gross Tax 2018 2018 2017 2017 Notes m m m m Amortisation of other intangible assets 8 243.6 55.2 157.8 58.6 Deferred tax charge arising from revised treatment of certain non-UK intangible assets 3.1 Benefit of goodwill amortisation for tax purposes only 15.1 12.7 Impairment of goodwill and intangibles 8 9.8 2.1 5.6 Acquisition and integration related costs 8 88.9 9.6 24.0 9.3 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 8 13.1 2.9 12.9 3.8 Subsequent remeasurement of contingent consideration 8 0.1 0.1 UAE VAT charge 8 9.1 GMP equalisation charge 8 4.5 0.8 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 21 1.1 17.4 6.3 Investment income 8 1.2 Finance costs 8 1.0 0.2 Deferred tax credit on intangible assets arising from UK Corporation Tax rate change 22 0.4 Tax on adjusting items 367.6 55.7 217.6 62.6 Tax adjusting item for US federal tax reform 85.4 Total tax adjusting items 367.6 55.7 217.6 148.0 The current and deferred tax are calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation is calculated in each jurisdiction based on the prevailing rates of that jurisdiction.
US federal tax reform refers to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 175 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 13.
Taxation continued The total tax charge credit for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2017 1 2018 restated m % m % Profit before tax 282.1 268.2 Tax charge at effective UK statutory rate of 19.0% 2017: 19.25% 53.6 19.0 51.6 19.3 Non-deductible impairments 1.1 0.4 Other non-deductible expenses and similar items 8.0 2.8 2.0 0.7 Different tax rates on overseas profits 10.1 3.6 3.5 1.3 Adjustments for prior years 6.1 2.2 3.0 1.1 Adjustments to deferred tax on intangible assets 0.8 0.3 Acquisitions and disposals related items 12.6 4.5 0.7 0.3 Benefits from financing structures 4.7 1.7 1.4 0.5 Tax incentives and foreign tax credits 2.4 0.9 4.6 1.7 Movements in deferred tax not recognised 1.8 0.6 0.1 Deferred tax credit arising from UK Corporation Tax rate change 0.4 0.1 Non-taxable income 6.8 2.4 Net movement in provisions for uncertain tax positions 5.6 2.0 Net tax credit arising from US federal tax reform 85.4 31.9 Tax charge credit and effective rate for the year 60.5 21.3 45.0 16.8 1.
In addition to the income tax charge to the Consolidated Income Statement, a tax credit of 1.3m 2017: charge of 4.2m has been recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income during the year.
Current tax liabilities include 57.4m 2017: 12.2m in respect of provisions for uncertain tax positions.
In 2017 the European Commission announced that it would be opening a State Aid investigation into the UKs Controlled Foreign Company regime and in particular the exemption for group finance companies.
Like many UK-based multinational companies, the Group has made claims in relation to this exemption and will potentially have an additional tax liability if a negative State Aid decision is upheld.
The maximum amount that could become payable by the Group in relation to this matter is 37.2m.
As part of the acquisition accounting relating to contingent liabilities, an amount of 8.0m has been provided in relation to UBM companies.
We do not currently believe it is probable that we will ultimately have to make a payment in respect of this issue and therefore have not provided for any additional liabilities.
Dividends 2018 2017 Pence per 2018 Pence per 2017 share m share m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 13.04p 107.4 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 6.65p 54.8 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 13.80p 113.6 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 7.05p 88.2 20.85p 201.8 19.69p 162.2 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 and actual dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 14.85p 185.8 13.80p 113.7 On 28 June 2018 a special dividend payment of 59.0m was made to the former Shareholders of UBM plc, settling a dividend liability agreed to be paid prior to the acquisition date.
176 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements As at 31 December 2018, 0.1m 2017: 0.2m of dividends were still to be paid, and total dividend payments in the year were 201.9m 2017: 162.0m.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 14.85p 2017: 13.80p per share is subject to approval by Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The payment of this dividend will not have any tax consequences for the Group.
In the year ended 31 December 2018 there were dividend payments of 8.6m 2017: 2.0m to non-controlling interests.
Earnings per share Basic The basic earnings per share calculation is based on profit attributable to equity Shareholders of the parent of 207.9m 2017:310.8m profit, restated.
This profit on ordinary activities after taxation is divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less those shares held by the Employee Share Trust and ShareMatch, which is 1,052,752,894 2017: 823,352,304.
Diluted The diluted earnings per share calculation is based on the basic EPS calculation above except that the weighted average number of shares includes all potentially dilutive options granted by the reporting date as if those options had been exercised on the first day of the accounting period or the date of the grant, if later, giving a weighted average of 1,057,236,186 2017: 826,146,627.
The table below sets out the adjustment in respect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: 2018 2017 Weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share 1,052,752,894 823,352,304 Potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares 4,483,292 2,794,323 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share 1,057,236,186 826,146,627 Earnings per share In addition to basic EPS, adjusted diluted EPS calculations have been provided as this is useful additional information on underlying performance.
Earnings are based on profits attributable to equity Shareholders and adjusted to exclude items that, in the opinion of the Directors, would distort underlying results with the items detailed in Note 8.
Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount 2017 2017 1 1 2018 2018 restated restated Earnings per share m Pence m Pence Profit for the year 221.6 313.2 Non-controlling interests 13.7 2.4 Earnings for the purpose of statutory basic EPS statutory basic EPS p 207.9 19.7 310.8 37.7 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares 0.1 Earnings for the purpose of statutory diluted EPS statutory diluted EPS p 207.9 19.7 310.8 37.6 1.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 177 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 15.
Earnings per share continued Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount 2017 2017 1 1 2018 2018 restated restated Adjusted earnings per share m Pence m Pence Earnings for the purpose of statutory basic EPS statutory basic EPS p 207.9 19.7 310.8 37.7 Adjusting items: Intangible amortisation and impairment Note 8 253.4 24.1 163.4 19.8 Acquisition and integration costs Note 8 88.9 8.4 24.0 2.9 Redundancy and restructuring costs Note 8 13.1 1.3 12.9 1.6 Subsequent remeasurement of contingent consideration Note 8 0.1 0.1 UAE VAT charge 9.1 0.9 GMP equalisation 4.5 0.4 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations Note 8 1.1 0.1 17.4 2.2 Investment income Note 8 1.2 0.1 Finance costs Note 8 1.0 0.1 Tax related to adjusting items Note 8 55.7 5.3 62.6 7.6 Tax adjusting items for US federal tax reform Note 8 85.4 10.4 Earnings for the purpose of adjusted basic EPS adjusted basic EPS p 519.8 49.4 380.4 46.2 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares 0.2 0.2 Earnings for the purpose of adjusted diluted EPS adjusted diluted EPS p 519.8 49.2 380.4 46.0 1.
Goodwill m Cost At 1 January 2017 2,892.1 Additions in the year 114.6 Disposals 101.4 Exchange differences 173.0 At 1 January 2018 2,732.3 Additions in the year Note 18 3,499.2 Disposals 2.2 Transfer to held for sale 31.4 Exchange differences 160.4 At 31 December 2018 6,358.3 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2017 192.6 Impairment losses for the year Note 8 3.4 Disposals 67.8 Exchange differences 4.1 At 1 January 2018 124.1 Impairment losses for the year Disposals 1.2 Exchange differences 1.9 At 31 December 2018 121.0 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 6,237.3 At 31 December 2017 2,608.2 178 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Impairment review As goodwill is not amortised, it is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment.
The impairment review took place on 31 December 2018.
The testing involved comparing the carrying value of assets in each cash generating unit CGU at the segment level with value in use calculations or assessments of fair value less costs to sell, derived from the latest Group cash flow projections.
In 2018 there was nil impairment of goodwill 2017: 3.4m impairment charge and there was a 9.8m 2017: 2.2m impairment charge in relation to intangible assets arising on acquisition of businesses or assets, with 5.7m arising in the ICRE CGU in Global Exhibitions associated with a business that was subsequently sold and 4.1m in the TMT CGU in Knowledge & Networking associated with an event that was no longer operated in 2018.
In 2018 the Group revised the approach to impairment testing of goodwill to reflect a change in the level at which goodwill is monitored.
This reflects the completion of the Groups 20142017 Growth Acceleration Plan in which the operating structure of the business changed to four market facing Operating Divisions plus the UBM Division, with monitoring of goodwill now undertaken at the segment level representing an aggregation of CGUs rather than at the individual CGU level.
This has involved testing for impairment at a segment level by aggregating the carrying value of assets across CGUs in each Division and at the segment level and comparing this to value in use calculations or assessments of fair value less costs to sell, derived from the latest Group cash flow projections.
Following this change, there were five groups of CGUs for goodwill impairment testing and segment reporting in 2018.
The carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the CGU groups is set out below: 2018 2017 Number of Number of 2018 2017 CGU groups CGUs CGUs m m Academic Publishing 1 1 541.4 527.4 Business Intelligence 6 6 811.6 766.1 Global Exhibitions 11 12 1,037.5 983.4 Knowledge & Networking 4 7 342.4 331.3 UBM 1 3,504.4 23 26 6,237.3 2,608.2 The recoverable amounts of the CGU groups are determined as the greater of the value in use calculations or fair value less costs to sell, which are based on the cash flow projections for each CGU group.
The key assumptions are those regarding the revenue and operating margin growth rates together with the long-term growth rate and the discount rate applied to the forecast cash flows.
Estimated future cash flows are determined by reference to the budget for the year following the balance sheet date and forecasts for the following two years, after which a long-term perpetuity growth rate is applied.
The most recent financial budget approved by the Board of Directors has been prepared after considering the current economic environment in each of our markets.
Long-term market growth rates Pre-tax discount rates Key assumptions 2018 2017 2018 2017 Academic Publishing 2.2% 2.5% 9.6% 9.9% Business Intelligence 2.1% 2.02.5% 10.1% 10.210.5% Global Exhibitions 2.4% 1.73.9% 10.5% 7.212.9% Knowledge & Networking 2.1% 1.72.5% 9.3% 9.211.8% UBM 2.4% n a 10.4% n a The pre-tax discount rates used in the value in use calculations reflect the Groups assessment of the current market and other risks specific to the CGUs.
Long-term growth rates are applied after the forecast period.
Long-term growth rates are based on external reports on long-term CPI inflation rates for the geographic market in which each CGU operates and therefore do not exceed the long-term average growth prospects for the individual markets.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 179 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 16.
Goodwill continued The Group has undertaken a sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact on changes to key impairment test assumptions arising from a range of possible future trading and economic scenarios including the potential impact of Brexit.
These have been applied across all CGUs and CGU groups.
For the UBM CGU an increase in the pre-tax discount rate by 0.6%, or a decrease in the terminal growth rate of 0.7%, or a reduction to the operating profit growth rate of 6.4%, reduces the headroom to nil.
There were no impairments to other CGUs or CGU groups under the following scenarios, which are summarised as follows: An increase in the pre-tax discount rate by 1% A decrease in the terminal growth rate by 0.5% A decrease in the operating profit growth rate by 5% An increase in the pre-tax discount rate by 1% and a decrease in the terminal growth rate by 0.5% 17.
All product development in 2018 and 2017 is internally generated.
A dditions includes business asset additions and product development.
Of the 54.3m total additions, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement shows 57.4m for these items with 30.2m for intangible software assets, 6.2m for product development and 21.0m for titles, Brands and customer relationships.
180 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Intangible software assets includes a gross carrying amount of 208.4m 2017: 171.0m and accumulated amortisation of 95.7m 2017: 68.0m which relates to software that has been internally generated.
The Group does not have any of its intangible assets pledged as security over bank loans.
18. Business combinations 2018 2017 Cash paid on acquisition net of cash acquired Segment m m Current period acquisitions UBM plc UBM 509.3 ICON Advisory Group, Ltd Business Intelligence 42.7 CitiExpo Global Exhibitions 7.0 ECMI ITE UBM 3.2 Other 0.1 562.3 Prior period acquisitions 2017 acquisitions: Yachting Promotions, Inc. YPI Global Exhibitions 111.1 Dove Medical Press Limited Academic Publishing 0.6 43.0 Futurum Media Limited Knowledge & Networking 5.0 1.6 Skipta, LLC Business Intelligence 1.4 4.6 Guangzhou Informa Yi Fan Exhibitions Co. Limited Global Exhibitions 0.4 4.2 Karnac Books Limited Academic Publishing 0.4 3.9 New AG International Sarl Knowledge & Networking 2.5 5.5 Mapa International Limited Business Intelligence 0.2 2.0 Other 3.9 5.7 2010-2016 acquisitions: Penton 16.9 4.5 Other 16.1 Total prior period acquisitions 31.3 193.2 Total cash paid in year net of cash acquired 593.6 193.2 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 181 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 18. Business combinations continued Acquisitions The provisional amounts recognised in respect of the estimated fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities for the acquisitions made in 2018 and payments made in 2018 relating to prior year acquisitions was: Prior year ICON acquisitions Advisory Other and deferred UBM plc Group, Ltd acquisitions consideration Total m m m m m Intangibles 2,315.7 22.0 15.5 2,353.2 Property and equipment 30.1 0.1 30.2 Investments in joint ventures and associates 16.5 16.5 Deferred tax assets 2.6 2.6 Retirement benefit surplus 6.0 6.0 Trade and other receivables 225.6 0.6 1.1 227.3 Cash and cash equivalents 134.2 1.6 6.7 142.5 Current tax liabilities 66.0 0.3 66.3 1 Trade and other payables 213.8 0.7 4.2 218.7 Deferred income 426.9 0.2 427.1 Provisions 44.8 31.3 13.5 Retirement benefit obligation 0.9 0.9 Derivative liabilities 17.1 17.1 Borrowings including derivatives associated with borrowings 702.6 702.6 Deferred tax liabilities 370.2 6.8 377.0 Identifiable net assets acquired 888.4 23.4 12.0 31.3 955.1 Put options over non-controlling interests 6.6 6.6 Non-controlling interest 175.8 1.0 176.8 Goodwill 3,470.8 20.9 7.5 3,499.2 Total consideration 4,190.0 44.3 18.5 31.3 4,284.1 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 643.5 44.3 17.0 704.8 Deferred and contingent cash consideration 1.5 31.3 32.8 Deferred consideration 1.4 1.4 Initial share consideration 3,545.1 3,545.1 Total consideration 4,190.0 44.3 18.5 31.3 4,284.1 Net cash outflow arising on acquisitions: Initial cash consideration 643.5 44.3 17.0 704.8 Deferred and contingent consideration paid 31.3 31.3 Less: net cash acquired 134.2 1.6 6.7 142.5 Net cash outflow arising on acquisitions 509.3 42.7 10.3 31.3 593.6 1.
Included within trade and other payables was 59.0m paid to former UBM Shareholders on 28 June 2018. Business combinations made in 2018 UBM plc On 15 June 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of UBM plc.
Total consideration was 4,190.0m, of which 643.5m was paid in cash, 3,545.1m was settled by the issue of 427,536,794 shares in Informa PLC at a price of 8.29 per share, and there was 1.4m of deferred consideration relating to the costs to settle share save scheme awards that were exercised after the acquisition date, with 2.5m of deferred consideration settled in shares and cash less 1.1m of SAYE option proceeds.
There was cash acquired of 134.2m and debt acquired at fair value of 702.6m including associated derivatives.
182 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The provisional fair value of the identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities assumed, at the acquisition date are shown below: Provisional Book fair value Provisional 1 value adjustments fair value m m m Intangibles 27.9 2,287.8 2,315.7 Property and equipment 30.1 30.1 Investment in joint ventures and associates 17.1 0.6 16.5 Deferred tax assets 86.3 83.7 2.6 Retirement benefit surplus 6.0 6.0 Trade and other receivables 229.0 3.4 225.6 Cash and cash equivalents 134.2 134.2 Current tax liabilities 58.0 8.0 66.0 Trade and other payables 213.8 213.8 Deferred income 426.9 426.9 Provisions 41.2 3.6 44.8 Retirement benefit obligation 0.9 0.9 Derivative liabilities 17.1 17.1 Borrowings including derivatives associated with borrowings 688.6 14.0 702.6 Deferred tax liabilities 370.2 370.2 Identifiable net assets acquired 915.9 1,804.3 888.4 Put options over non-controlling interests 6.6 6.6 Non-controlling interest 32.9 142.9 175.8 Provisional goodwill 3,470.8 Total consideration 4,190.0 Consideration Cash 643.5 Share consideration 3,545.1 Deferred consideration 1.4 Total 4,190.0 1.
B ook value excludes UBM goodwill, acquisition intangible assets and the related deferred tax liability on these intangibles as these amounts are replaced at acquisition date.
The fair values are described as provisional and will be finalised in the reporting for the six months ending 30 June 2019.
Provisional fair values of acquisition intangibles and goodwill are based on a detailed fair value exercise, which involved support from a third party valuation specialist.
The provisional goodwill arising from the acquisition has initially been identified as relating to the following factors: Increased scale and industry specialisation in business-to-business information services.
Access to new markets where Informa previously had less presence, with the benefit of global reach of the highly complementary geographic fit of the combined portfolios.
Synergy opportunities from cost savings and incremental revenue opportunities.
Enhanced quality of earnings as increased scale and international breadth provide resilience and greater revenue predictability.
Greater levels of product and platform innovation facilitated increased operating and financial scale.
The provisional fair value of acquired intangible assets is 2,294.5m offset by a 6.7m fair value reduction in sales and marketing software and consolidation finance systems that will not be utilised in the combined Group.
A further 3.4m of sales and marketing software work in progress was reported within trade and other receivables and is reduced to a fair value of nil.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 183 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 18. Business combinations continued The associated deferred tax liability recognised on the acquisition intangible assets is 525.5m.
Deferred tax assets of 157.9m are recognised in the 15 June 2018 Balance Sheet relating to brought forward losses and other tax attributes in the UK, US and Brazil.
Of this balance, 71.6m previously not recognised by UBM as it was uncertain that they would be utilised.
2.6m of the total deferred tax asset recognised as an asset, the remainder is offset as permitted against the deferred tax liability.
A fair value decrease to joint ventures and associates of 0.6m and a fair value increase to non-controlling interests of 142.9m have been recognised with support from a third party valuation specialist.
The increase in non-controlling interest is primarily driven by overseas businesses most notably China having been established with local partners a number of years ago.
There is a fair value provision of 8.0m in respect of the European Commissions State Aid investigation into the UKs Controlled Foreign Company regime.
Further information is given in Note 13.
A fair value provision of 3.6m has been recognised for an unfavourable property contract in London.
The provisional fair value adjustment to borrowings is an increase of 14.0m to the private placement loan notes and Bond borrowings.
This fair value reflects the market rate of interest on these borrowings at the acquisition date.
Acquisition costs charged to operating profit included in adjusted items in the Consolidated Income Statement amounted to 41.1m for adviser and related external fees.
The business generated adjusted operating profit of 202.6m, profit after tax of 21.4m, and 613.5m of revenue for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2018.
If the acquisition had completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have generated profit after tax of 54.8m and 988.4m of revenue for the year ended 31 December 2018.
ICON Advisory Group, Ltd Informa purchased ICON Advisory Group, Ltd on 26 July 2018 for total consideration of 44.3m $58.2m, settled in cash.
The provisional fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date are shown below: Provisional Book fair value Provisional 1 value adjustments fair value m m m Intangible assets 22.0 22.0 Property and equipment 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 0.6 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1.6 1.6 Trade and other payables 0.7 0.7 Deferred income 0.2 0.2 Current tax liabilities Identifiable net assets acquired 1.4 22.0 23.4 Provisional goodwill 20.9 Total consideration 44.3 Consideration Cash 44.3 Total 44.3 1.
B ook value excludes goodwill, acquisition intangible assets and the related deferred tax liability on these intangibles as these amounts are replaced at acquisition date.
184 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The provisional goodwill arising from the acquisition has initially been identified as relating to the following factors: Providing Informa with greater presence in the growing Business Intelligence financial market.
Providing a strong operational and management team to the Group.
The fair value of acquisition intangible assets was estimated to be 22.0m.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on acquisition as a result of claiming a tax deduction for goodwill and intangible assets which gives rise to a deferred tax asset equal to the deferred tax liability.
Acquisition costs charged to operating profit included in adjusted items in the Consolidated Income Statement amounted to 0.2m for adviser and related external fees.
The business generated an adjusted operating profit of 1.3m, profit after tax of 1.0m, and 3.1m of revenue for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2018.
If the acquisition had completed on the first day of the financial period, it would have incurred a profit after tax of 2.1m and generated 6.5m to the revenue of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Other business combinations made in 2018 There were three other acquisitions completed in the year ended 31 December 2018 for a total consideration of 18.5m, of which 10.3m was paid in cash, net of cash acquired of 6.7m with 1.5m of deferred consideration.
Update on deferred and contingent consideration paid in 2018 relating to business combinations completed in prior years In the year ended 31 December 2018 there were contingent and deferred net cash payments of 31.3m relating to acquisitions completed in prior years.
There were no further adjustments made in 2018 in respect of the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed for acquisitions completed in 2017 which were disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Equity transactions When there is a change in ownership of a subsidiary without a change in control, the difference between the consideration paid received and the relevant share of the carrying amount of net assets acquired disposed of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
The carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid is recognised directly in equity.
2018 2017 m m Cash paid 5.3 Contingent consideration 1.0 Put option liability 6.3 Carrying amount of non-controlling interest at acquisition date 2.3 Recognised in equity 2.3 On 6 July 2018, the Group acquired the remaining 15% minority shareholding of UBM ICC Fuarcilik five Organizasyon Ticaret A. and the remaining 25% of UBM Istanbul Fuarclk five Gsteri Hizmetleri A.. and NTSR Fuar five Gsteri Hizmetleri A.. for initial consideration of 5.3m and contingent consideration of 1.0m.
This equity purchase brings the Groups total shareholding in these entities to 100%.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 185 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 19.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment pledged as security over bank loans.
Other investments and investments in joint ventures and associates Investments in joint ventures and associates The carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates is set out below: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 1.5 1.5 Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries and operations 16.5 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 1.0 Foreign exchange 0.1 At 31 December 19.1 1.5 186 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Groups joint ventures: 100% of Group 100% of Group results share results share 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Non-current assets 88.4 16.5 Current assets 73.4 13.7 2.8 1.4 161.8 30.2 2.8 1.4 Non-current liabilities 48.6 9.8 Current liabilities 100.4 20.1 0.9 0.5 Net assets 12.8 0.3 1.9 0.9 Operating profit 5.9 1.1 0.1 Profit before tax 5.9 1.1 0.1 Profit after tax 5.6 1.0 0.1 The Groups investments in joint ventures at 31 December 2018 are as follows: Country of Shareholding incorporation Class of or share of Accounting Company Division and operation shares held operation year end Lloyds Maritime Information Services Limited BI UK Ordinary 50% 31 December Independent Materials Handling Exhibitions Limited GE UK Ordinary 50% 31 December Informa Tharawat LLC K&N State of Qatar Ordinary 49% 31 December Cosmosprof Shanghai Exhibitions Limited UBM China Ordinary 50% 31 December Guangdong International Exhibitions Limited UBM China Ordinary 50% 31 December Guzhen Lighting Expo Co. Ltd UBM China Ordinary 51% 31 December GML Exhibition Thailand Co. Ltd UBM China Ordinary 49% 31 December Games for Good Causes plc UBM UK Ordinary 36% 31 December PT Dyandra UBM International UBM Indonesia Ordinary 49% 31 December MedtecLive GmbH UBM Germany Ordinary 49% 31 December The Groups investments in associates at 31 December 2018 are as follows: Country of Shareholding incorporation Class of or share of Accounting Company Division and operation shares held operation year end 1 1 Pestana Management Limited K&N Cyprus Ordinary 49% 31 December Independent Television News Limited UBM UK Ordinary 20% 31 December PA Group UBM UK Ordinary 17% 31 December 1.
Pestana Management Limited is incorporated in Cyprus and operates in Russia.
Other investments The Groups other investments at 31 December 2018 are as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 4.6 1.6 Additions in year 0.5 3.0 At 31 December 5.1 4.6 Other investments include investments in unlisted equity securities and convertible loan notes which are redeemable through the issue of equity.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 187 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 21.
Disposal of subsidiaries and operations During the year, the Group generated the following profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations: 2018 2017 m m Delicious Living 0.2 ehi Live exhibition 3.3 PR Newswire 5.4 Euroforum conference business in Germany and Switzerland 0.7 15.5 Compendium Contech 1.6 Garland Science 7.5 Biotechniques 19.2 Lloyds List Australia 4.6 Australia Bulk Handling Review 0.7 Corporate Training businesses loan recovery 0.6 Other operations loss profit on disposal 0.5 0.1 Profit loss for the year from disposal of subsidiaries and operations 1.1 17.4 On 17 September 2018, the Group disposed of the ehi Live exhibition and recorded a loss on disposal of 3.3m.
In August 2018, there was a 5.4m profit on disposal relating to the release of indemnity provisions associated with the 2016 disposal of PR Newswire by UBM plc.
On 19 June 2018, there was a loss on disposal of 0.7m relating to a payment for the finalisation of working capital amounts in relation to the 2017 disposal of Euroforum.
Deferred tax Consolidated Income Consolidated Balance Sheet Statement year ended at 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Deferred tax liabilities m m m m Accelerated capital allowances 3.0 2.7 0.9 0.2 Intangibles 764.5 306.6 34.1 146.2 Pensions Note 34 7.5 5.8 0.5 0.1 Losses 120.4 45.6 14.8 46.3 Other 35.3 15.9 2.1 4.3 598.3 242.0 21.0 95.9 The movement in deferred tax balance during the year is: 2018 2017 m m Net deferred tax liability at 1 January 242.0 335.5 Credit charge to other comprehensive income for the year 1.3 4.2 Acquisitions and additions 373.8 26.4 Disposal 0.4 Transfer to held for sale 8.7 Credit to profit or loss for the year excluding US federal tax reform 21.0 4.3 Credit to profit or loss for the year arising from US federal tax reform 94.6 Credit to profit or loss for the year arising from UK Corporation Tax rate change 0.4 Other rate change movements 0.7 Foreign exchange movements 13.9 24.1 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 598.3 242.0 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of deferred tax balances for the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
188 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax liability 620.3 251.0 Deferred tax asset 22.0 9.0 598.3 242.0 Deferred tax assets have been recognised because, based on the Groups current forecasts, it is expected that there will be taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
The Finance Act 2016 enacted a reduction in the UK Corporation Tax rate to 17.0% from 1 April 2020.
Deferred tax has been provided on UK temporary timing differences at the UK rate at which they are expected to reverse.
The Group has the following unused tax losses in respect of which no deferred tax assets have been recognised: 270.8m 2017: nil of UK tax losses.
109.7m 2017 2.2m of US federal tax losses which expire between 2019 and 2038.
In addition, there are unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of US state tax losses of 5.4m 2017: 4.0m.
251.6m 2017: nil of UK capital losses which are only available for offset against future capital gains.
5.0m 2017: 37.9m of US capital losses which are only available for offset against future capital gains.
7.5bn 2017: nil of Luxembourg tax losses.
40.4m 2017: 29.0m of tax losses in other countries.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of these tax losses as it is not considered probable that these losses will be utilised.
In addition, the Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to other deductible temporary differences of 2.6m 2017:nil.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of these amounts as it is not considered probable that they will be utilised.
At the reporting date, deferred tax liabilities of 0.7m 2017: nil have been recognised in respect of withholding tax on post-acquisition undistributed earnings of the Groups subsidiaries.
The aggregate amount of withholding tax on post-acquisition undistributed earnings for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 1.2m 2017: 1.2m.
No liability has been recognised because the Group, being in a position to control the timing of the distribution of intra-Group dividends, has no intention to distribute intra-Group dividends in the foreseeable future that would trigger withholding tax.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 189 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 23.
Trade and other receivables 2017 1 2018 restated m m Current Trade receivables 250.1 231.6 Less: loss allowance 37.7 27.2 Trade receivables net 212.4 204.4 Other receivables 33.8 22.6 Prepayments and accrued income 156.5 99.1 Total current 402.7 326.1 Non-current Other receivables 6.3 0.1 409.0 326.2 1.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 48 days 2017: 52 days applying consistent methodology.
The Group has provision policies for its various Divisions which have been determined by reference to past default experience.
Under the normal course of business, the Group does not charge interest on its overdue receivables.
The Groups exposures to credit risk and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 32.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Derivative financial instruments 2018 2017 m m Financial assets non-current Interest rate swaps hedged 0.4 Interest rate swaps not hedged 1.1 1.5 Financial liabilities current Put options over non-controlling interests 10.1 10.1 Financial liabilities non-current Interest rate swaps hedged 25.2 Put options over non-controlling interests 1.8 27.0 Interest rate swaps are associated with debt instruments and are included within net debt see Note 27.
There were 1.5m of derivative financial assets and 25.2m of derivative financial liabilities relating to interest rate swaps 24.1m in relation to cross currency interest rate swaps see Note 32 for further details.
Put options over non-controlling interests relate to options over previous acquisitions see Note 32 for further details.
190 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 25.
Inventory 2018 2017 m m Work in progress 8.2 11.3 Finished goods and goods for resale 42.7 42.8 50.9 54.1 Write-down of inventory during the year amounted to 3.0m 2017: 3.0m.
Assets classified as held for sale and liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale On 19 December 2018, the Group agreed the disposal of the UBM Life Sciences business, with the sale completing on 31 January 2019 see Note 42.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the Group has classified the assets and liabilities of UBM Life Sciences as held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2018 as it does not meet the requirement of a discontinued operation.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of the UBM Life Sciences business at 31 December 2018 were as follows: 2018 m Goodwill 31.4 Intangibles 34.3 Property and equipment 0.8 Trade and other receivables 13.0 Assets of business classified as held for sale 79.5 Trade and other payables 7.1 Deferred tax liability 8.7 Provisions 0.3 Liabilities of business associated with assets classified as held for sale 16.1 Net assets of business held for sale 63.4 27.
Movements in net debt Net debt consists of cash and cash equivalents and includes bank overdrafts, borrowings, derivatives associated with debt instruments, and other loan note receivables where these are interest bearing and do not relate to deferred contingent arrangements.
UBM net At 31 At 1 January Non-cash debt Exchange December 2018 movements acquired Cash flow movements 2018 m m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 54.9 134.2 12.4 7.9 168.8 Overdrafts 6.7 37.1 0.1 43.9 Cash and cash equivalents 48.2 134.2 49.5 8.0 124.9 Bank loans due in less than one year 296.3 151.0 307.9 17.5 156.9 Bank loans due in more than one year 287.6 227.5 18.4 78.5 Bank loan fees due in less than one year 2.5 2.5 Bank loan fees due in more than one year 2.0 1.1 0.9 Private placement loan notes due in less than one year 183.1 284.6 101.5 Private placement loan notes due in more than one year 841.0 182.4 313.6 59.4 1,396.4 Private placement loan note fees 1.6 0.6 1.3 0.9 0.2 3.4 Bond borrowings due in more than one year 1.1 269.1 872.7 22.3 1,163.0 Bond borrowing fees 0.9 1.7 6.6 7.4 Derivative assets associated with borrowings 1.5 1.5 Derivative liabilities associated with borrowings 2.7 2.4 25.5 25.2 Net debt 1,373.1 0.6 568.4 588.9 150.9 2,681.9 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 191 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 27.
Movements in net debt continued Included within the net cash outflow of 588.9m 2017: outflow of 14.6m is 1,179.4m 2017: 1,292.1m of loan repayments, 644.0m 2017: 1,070.8m of facility loan drawdowns, 872.7m of proceeds from the EMTN bond issuance, 101.5m of private placement repayments 2017: 159.7m and 313.6m of private placement drawdowns 2017: 406.4m.
Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 Note m m Cash at bank and on hand 168.8 54.9 Bank overdrafts 29 43.9 6.7 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 124.9 48.2 The cash at bank and on hand is presented net of the Groups legal right to offset overdrafts.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risks and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities is disclosed in Note 32.
Borrowings Total borrowings, excluding derivative assets and liabilities associated with borrowings, are as follows: 2018 2017 Notes m m Current Bank overdraft 28 43.9 6.7 Bank borrowings $400.0m due March 2018 296.3 Bank borrowings $200.0m due March 2019 156.9 Total current borrowings 27 200.8 303.0 Non-current Bank borrowings Revolving Credit Facility due October 2020 78.5 287.6 Bank debt issue costs 0.9 2.0 Bank borrowings non-current 27 77.6 285.6 Private placement loan note $385.5m due December 2020 302.5 285.5 Private placement loan note $45.0m due June 2022 36.5 Private placement loan note $120.0m due October 2022 94.2 88.9 Private placement loan note $55.0m due January 2023 43.1 40.7 Private placement loan note $76.1m due June 2024 60.9 Private placement loan note $80.0m due January 2025 62.8 59.2 Private placement loan note $200.0m due January 2025 156.9 Private placement loan note $130.0m due October 2025 102.0 96.3 Private placement loan note $365.0m due January 2027 286.4 270.4 Private placement loan note $116.0m due June 2027 94.2 Private placement loan note $200.0m due January 2028 156.9 Private debt issue costs 3.4 1.6 Private placement non-current 27 1,393.0 839.4 Bond borrowings $350.0m due November 2020 279.1 Euro Medium Term Note 650.0m due July 2023 583.9 Euro Medium Term Note 300.0m due July 2026 300.0 Bond borrowings issue costs 7.4 Bond borrowings non-current 27 1,155.6 Total non-current borrowings 2,626.2 1,125.0 2,827.0 1,428.0 There have been no breaches of covenants under the Groups bank facilities and private placement loan notes during the year.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment and other intangible assets pledged as security over loans.
192 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements At 31 December 2018, the Group had private placement loan notes amounting to $1,772.6m 2017: $1,135.5m.
As at 31 December 2018, the note maturities ranged between two and nine years 2017: three and ten years, with an average duration of 5.8 years 2017:6.1 years, at a weighted average interest rate of 4.1% 2017: 4.1%.
For the purpose of refinancing the UBM plc acquisition borrowings the Group issued the following Euro Medium Term Notes EMTNs, which are debt instruments traded outside of the USA and Canada.
On 2 July 2018, the bonds were priced with an issue date of 5 July 2018: A 5-year fixed term note, until July 2023, of value 650m.
An 8-year fixed term note, until July 2026, of value 300m.
The Group maintains the following lines of credit: 855.0m 2017: 855.0m Revolving Credit Facility, of which 78.5m 2017: 287.6m was drawn down at 31 December 2018.
Interest is payable at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin based on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
156.9m USD 200.0m bank term loan facility with a maturity of up to March 2019 and issued by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This was repaid in February 2019.
167.1m 2017: 134.0m comprising a number of bilateral bank uncommitted facilities that can be drawn down to meet short-term financing needs, of which 43.9m 2017: 6.7m was drawn at 31 December 2018.
Interest is payable at the local base rate plus a margin.
Four bank guarantee facilities comprising in aggregate up to USD 10.0m 2017: USD 10.0m, 7.0m 2017: 7.0m, 2.0m 2017: nil and AUD 1.5m 2017: AUD 1.5m.
The effective interest rate for the year ended 31 December 2018 was 3.8% 2017: 3.8%.
The Groups exposure to liquidity risk is disclosed in Note 32 g. WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 193 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 30.
The contingent consideration is based on future business valuations and profit multiples both Level 3 fair value measurements and has been estimated on an acquisition by acquisition basis using available profit forecasts a significant unobservable input.
The higher the profit forecast, the higher the fair value of any contingent consideration subject to any maximum payout clauses, and if all future business valuations and profit multiples were achieved, the maximum undiscounted amounts payable for contingent consideration would be 221.3m.
The property lease provision represents a provision for vacant property.
This is calculated as the estimated excess of rent payable on surplus property leases, plus dilapidation provisions, less rent receivable via sub-leases.
The property lease provisions will be fully utilised between one and five years.
See Note 8 for details of items included in restructuring provisions and details of the remeasurement of contingent consideration.
Amounts included within restructuring provisions are expected to be utilised in 2019.
194 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 31.
Trade and other payables 2017 1 2018 restated m m Current Deferred consideration 3.4 2.0 Trade payables 115.8 68.6 Accruals 265.7 200.4 Other payables 58.1 25.6 Total current 443.0 296.6 Non-current Deferred consideration 17.0 Other payables 33.9 9.7 Total non-current 33.9 26.7 476.9 323.3 1.
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 46 days 2017: 49 days applying consistent methodology.
There are no suppliers who represent more than 10% of the total balance of trade payables in either 2018 or 2017.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame.
Therefore, under the normal course of business, the Group is not charged interest on overdue payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables is approximate to their fair value.
Financial instruments a Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Capital risk management Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups management of capital, and the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board has established a Treasury Committee which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups financial risk management policies.
The Treasury Committee meets regularly and reports to the Audit Committee on its activities.
The Group Treasury function provides services to the Groups businesses, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets, and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group.
These risks include market risk including currency risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk.
The Treasury Committee has put in place policies to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the Group and has set appropriate limits and controls.
These policies provide written principles on funding investments, credit risk, foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits are reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
This Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 195 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 32.
Financial instruments continued Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders as well as sustaining the future development of the business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes borrowings Note 29, cash and cash equivalents Note 28, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital Note 35, reserves and retained earnings.
Cost of capital The Groups Treasury Committee reviews the Groups capital structure on a regular basis and, as part of this review, the Committee considers the weighted average cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Gearing ratio The principal financial covenant ratios under the Groups borrowing facilities are maximum net debt to EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum EBITDA interest cover of 4.0 times, tested semi-annually.
At 31 December 2018, both financial covenants were achieved, with the ratio of net debt using average exchange rates to EBITDA being 2.9 times 2.5 times at 31 December 2017.
The ratio of EBITDA to net interest payable in the year ended 31 December 2018 was 9.5 times 2017: 9.8 times.
EBITDA is calculated from earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, with earnings stated before adjusting items.
b Categories of financial instruments Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument, are disclosed in Note 2.
1 2018 2017 Notes m m Financial assets Trade receivables 23 212.4 204.4 Other receivables 23 40.1 22.7 Cash at bank and on hand 28 168.8 54.9 Derivative assets associated with borrowings 27 1.5 Investments in unquoted companies 20 5.1 4.6 Total financial assets 427.9 286.6 Financial liabilities Bank overdraft 29 43.9 6.7 Bank borrowings 29 234.5 581.9 Private placement loan notes 29 1,393.0 839.4 Bond borrowings 29 1,155.6 Derivative liabilities associated with borrowings 27 25.2 Derivative liabilities associated with put options over non-controlling interests 24 11.9 Trade payables 31 115.8 68.6 Accruals 31 265.7 200.4 Other payables 31 92.0 35.3 Deferred consideration 31 3.4 19.0 Contingent consideration 30 40.6 39.5 Total financial liabilities 3,381.6 1,790.8 1.
196 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements c Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The Group manages these risks by maintaining a mix of fixed and floating rate debt and currency borrowings using derivatives where necessary.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
d Interest rate risk The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets at floating rates, except cash, but is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at or converted to fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The interest rate risk is managed by maintaining an appropriate mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swap contracts.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section of this note.
The following table details financial liabilities by interest category: 1 2018 2017 restated NonNonFixed Floating interest Fixed Floating interest rate rate bearing Total rate rate bearing Total m m m m m m m m Bank overdraft 43.9 43.9 6.7 6.7 Bank borrowings 234.5 234.5 581.9 581.9 Private placement loan notes 1,356.5 36.5 1,393.0 839.4 839.4 Bond borrowings 1,155.6 1,155.6 Derivatives liabilities associated with borrowings 24.1 1.1 25.2 Derivative liabilities associated with put options over non-controlling interests 11.9 11.9 Trade payables 115.8 115.8 68.6 68.6 Accruals 265.7 265.7 200.4 200.4 Other payables 92.0 92.0 35.3 35.3 Deferred consideration 3.4 3.4 19.0 19.0 Contingent consideration 40.6 40.6 39.5 39.5 2,536.2 316.0 529.4 3,381.6 839.4 588.6 362.8 1,790.8 1.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis 88% of borrowings are at fixed interest rates: hence the Groups interest rate sensitivity would only be affected by the exposure to variable rate debt.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the year would have decreased or increased by 3.2m 2017: 5.9m.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 197 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 32.
Financial instruments continued Fair value hedges 2018 2017 m m Interest rate swaps derivative financial assets 1.5 Interest rate swaps derivative financial liabilities 25.2 At 31 December 2018, interest rate swaps were in place for $76.1m matched against $76.1m of the US private placement loan notes due 2024.
Under this swap, the Group receives a fixed rate of 4.45% and pays a floating rate of interest semi-annually in arrears.
At 31December 2018, the fair value of this swap was a financial liability of 1.1m.
Interest rate swaps at 31 December 2018 also relate to the floating rate swaps for $100.0m matching against $100.0m of the $350.0m 5.75% bond borrowings due in November 2020.
Under these swaps the Group receives interest of 5.75% to match the bond coupons and pays a floating rate of interest semi-annually in arrears.
At 31 December 2018 the fair value of these swaps was a financial asset of 0.4m.
There were also cross currency interest rate swaps over the EMTN borrowings where the Group receives a fixed rate of interest for 300.0m of EMTN borrowings for the duration of the 8 year bond and pays a fixed rate of interest for $393.7m: also where the Group receives a fixed rate of interest on 150.0m of EMTN borrowings for the duration of the 5 year bond and pays a fixed rate of interest for $174.1m.
At 31 December 2018, the fair value of these swaps was a financial liability of 24.1m.
The interest rate swaps are used to increase the Groups exposure to interest rates to maintain a balance of fixed and floating interest rate cost.
These hedges were assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2018 with the small ineffective portions of the hedging contracts included in financing income.
e Foreign currency risk The Group is a business with significant net US dollar USD transactions: hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
Allied to the Groups policy on the hedging of surplus foreign currency cash inflows, the Group will usually seek to finance its net investment in its principal overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in those subsidiaries functional currencies, primarily USD.
This policy has the effect of partially protecting the Groups Consolidated Balance Sheet from movements in those currencies to the extent that the associated net assets are hedged by the net foreign currency borrowings.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m USD 379.9 208.4 2,527.6 1,791.3 EUR 44.6 23.2 723.3 25.9 Other 191.2 259.1 900.5 310.8 615.7 490.7 4,151.4 2,128.0 The foreign currency borrowings of 2,494.8m 2017: 1,292.3m are used to hedge the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Average rate Closing rate 2018 2017 2018 2017 USD 1.33 1.29 1.27 1.35 198 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Foreign currency sensitivity analysis In 2018, the Group earned approximately 61% 2017: 65% of its revenues and incurred approximately 53% 2017: 55% of its costs in USD or currencies pegged to USD.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in USD against GBP.
In 2018, each $0.01 movement in the USD to GBP exchange rate has a circa 11.4m 2017: 8.5m impact on revenue and a circa 4.5m 2017: 3.5m impact on adjusted operating profit.
Offsetting this are reductions to the value of USD borrowings, interest and tax liabilities.
This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant.
f Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are trade and other receivables Note 23 and cash and cash equivalents Note 28, which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of assessing creditworthiness of counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Groups exposure and the creditworthiness of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved financial institutions.
Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved as part of the Groups treasury policies.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Groups current credit risk grading framework is comprised of the following categories: Category Description Basis for recording expected credit losses ECL Performing The counterparty has a low risk of default and does not have any past-due amounts 12-month ECL Doubtful Amount is 30 days past due or there has been a significant increase in credit risk Lifetime ECL not credit impaired since initial recognition In default Amount is 90 days past due or there is evidence indicating the asset is Lifetime ECL credit impaired credit-impaired Write-off There is evidence indicating that the debtor is in severe financial difficulty and the Amount is written off Group has no realistic prospect of recovery Trade receivables The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Group based on prior experience and its assessment of the current economic environment.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographic areas, and the Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The Group does not have significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
The Group always measures the loss allowance for trade receivables at an amount equal to lifetime ECL.
The ECLs on trade receivables are estimated by reference to past default experience of the debtor and an analysis of the debtors current financial position, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions of the industry in which the debtor operates and an assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date.
There has been no significant change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the current reporting period.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 199 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 32.
Financial instruments continued The Group writes off a trade receivable when there is information indicating that the debtor is in severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery, e. g. when the debtor has been placed under liquidation or has entered into bankruptcy proceedings, or when the trade receivables are overdue and considered irrecoverable, whichever occurs earlier.
None of the trade receivables that have been written off are subject to enforcement activities.
All customers have credit limits set by credit managers and are subject to the standard terms of payment of each Division.
As the Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking Divisions and the Journals part of the Academic Publishing Division work predominantly on a prepaid basis, they are not subject to the same credit controls and they have a low bad debt history.
The Group is exposed to normal credit risk and potential losses are mitigated as the Group does not have significant exposure to any single customer.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Non-current other receivables Non-current other receivables arose from disposals made in the current and prior years as disclosed in Note 23.
The Risk Committee reviews these receivables and the credit quality of the counterparties on a regular basis.
Trade receivables that are less than three months past due for payment are generally not considered impaired.
For trade receivables that are more than three months past due for payment, there are debtors with a carrying amount of 10.4m 2017: 24.4m which the Group has not provided for, as there has not been a significant change in the credit quality and the amounts are considered recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
A provision relating to returns on books of 20.7m 2017: 17.0m has been disclosed separately in the table above.
This is based on the Groups best estimate of previous returns trends, and the amount is included as part of the overall provision balance of 38.3m 2017: 27.2m.
Movement in the provision: 2018 2017 m m 1 January 27.2 31.3 Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries and operations 22.3 Provision recognised 2.3 5.7 Receivables written off as uncollectible 7.7 2.8 Amounts recovered during the year 6.4 7.0 31 December 37.7 27.2 There are no customers who represent more than 10% of the total gross balance of trade receivables in either 2018 or 2017.
200 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements g Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, though operationally it is managed by Group Treasury with oversight by the Treasury Committee.
Group Treasury has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and debt facilities, together with continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Included in Note 29 is a summary of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal.
Historically and for the foreseeable future the Group has been, and is expected to continue to be, in a net borrowing position.
The Groups policy is to fulfil its borrowing requirements by borrowing in the currencies in which it operates, principally USD and EUR: thereby providing a natural hedge against projected future surplus USD cash inflows.
h Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below presents the contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the Group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Carrying Contractual Less than Greater than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years m m m m m m 31 December 2018 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 426.4 426.4 415.0 11.4 426.4 426.4 415.0 11.4 31 December 2017 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 286.6 286.6 281.9 4.7 286.6 286.6 281.9 4.7 1.
U nder IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The following tables present the earliest date on which the Group can settle its financial liabilities.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 201 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 32.
Financial instruments continued i Fair value of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet: Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated amount fair value amount fair value 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.4 0.4 Unhedged derivative financial instruments 1.1 1.1 Equity investments in unquoted companies 5.1 5.1 4.6 4.6 6.6 6.6 4.6 4.6 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 25.2 25.2 Derivative liabilities associated with put options over non-controlling interests 11.9 11.9 Contingent and deferred consideration on acquisitions 44.0 44.0 58.5 58.5 81.1 81.1 58.5 58.5 j Fair values and fair value hierarchy Valuation techniques use observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts are measured using discounted cash flows.
Future cash flows are based on forward interest exchange rates from observable yield curves forward exchange rates at the end of the reporting period and contract interest forward rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of the counterparties.
The fair values of put options over non-controlling interests including exercise price and contingent and deferred consideration on acquisitions are measured using discounted cash flow models with inputs derived from the projected financial performance in relation to the specific contingent consideration criteria for each acquisition, as no observable market data is available.
The fair values are most sensitive to the projected financial performance of each acquisition: management makes a best estimate of these projections at each financial reporting date and regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
An increase of 20% to the projected financial performance used in the put option measurements would increase the aggregate liability by 1.8m.
The fair value of the contingent and deferred consideration on acquisitions is not significantly sensitive to a reasonable change in the forecast performance.
The potential undiscounted amount for all future payments that the Group could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangements for all acquisitions is disclosed in Note 30.
Financial instruments that are measured subsequently to initial recognition at fair value are grouped into Levels 1 to 3, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable, as follows: Level 1: fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices.
Level 3: fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
202 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position and their categorisation in the fair value hierarchy: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.4 0.4 Unhedged derivative financial instruments 1.1 1.1 Equity investments in unquoted companies 5.1 5.1 6.6 6.6 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Bank borrowings including bank overdraft 278.4 278.4 Private placement loan notes 1,318.2 1,318.2 Bond borrowings 1,072.9 1,072.9 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Private placement loan notes 59.2 59.2 Bond borrowings 80.3 80.3 1 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 25.2 25.2 Contingent and deferred consideration on acquisitions 44.0 44.0 Put options over non-controlling interests 11.9 11.9 2,834.2 55.9 2,890.1 1.
24.1m relates to interest rate swaps associated with Euro Medium Term Notes.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Equity investments in unquoted companies 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.6 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Contingent and deferred consideration on acquisitions 58.5 58.5 58.5 58.5 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 203 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 33.
Notes to the cash flow statement 2017 1 2018 restated Notes m m Profit before tax 282.1 268.2 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property and equipment 19 13.1 9.2 Amortisation of other intangible assets 17 286.1 182.6 Impairment goodwill 8 3.4 Impairment acquisition intangible assets 17 9.8 2.2 Impairment other intangible assets 17 3.8 Impairment property and equipment 19 2.7 Share-based payments 10 8.1 5.4 Subsequent remeasurement of contingent consideration 8 0.1 0.1 Profit loss on disposal of businesses 21 1.1 17.4 Pension curtailment gain 34 0.8 GMP equalisation charge 34 4.5 Investment income 11 8.2 0.2 Finance costs 12 90.4 59.3 Share of adjusted results of joint ventures and associates 20 1.0 Operating cash inflow before movements in working capital 689.4 547.4 Decrease increase in inventories 3.2 2.2 Decrease increase in receivables 89.7 40.5 Decrease increase in payables 142.9 26.5 Movements in working capital 50.0 16.2 Pension deficit contributions 4.4 Cash generated by operations 635.0 531.2 1.
Retirement benefit schemes a Charge to operating profit The charge to operating profit for the year in respect of pensions, including both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes, was 19.8m 2017: 10.6m.
This consisted of a 0.8m credit to operating profit related to a past service cost curtailment gain on the closure of the UBM Retirement Medical Plan in the US, a 4.5m past service cost charge to adjusting items within operating profit for the GMP equalisation cost and a 16.1m charge to operating profit relating to defined contribution schemes 2017: 10.6m.
b Defined benefit schemes strategy The Group operates four defined benefit pension schemes in the UK the UK Schemes : the Informa Final Salary Scheme, the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and, following the UBM acquisition, the UBM Pension Scheme UBMPS and the United Newspapers Executive Pension Scheme UNEPS.
These are for qualifying UK colleagues and provide benefits based on final pensionable pay.
The Group has two defined benefit schemes in the US, the Penton Media, Inc. Retirement Plan and the Penton Media, Inc. and Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.
All schemes the Group Schemes are closed to future accrual.
Contributions to the UK Schemes are determined following triennial valuations undertaken by a qualified actuary using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
Contributions to the US Schemes are assessed annually following valuations undertaken by a qualified actuary.
For the UK Schemes, the defined benefit schemes are administered by separate funds that are legally separated from the Company.
The Trustees are responsible for running the UK Schemes in accordance with the Group Schemes Trust Deed and Rules, which sets out their powers.
The Trustees of the UK Schemes are required to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries of the Group Schemes.
There is a requirement that one-third of the Trustees are nominated by the members of the UK Schemes.
The Trustees of the pension funds are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
Neither of the Schemes has any reimbursement rights.
The Groups pension funding policy is to provide sufficient funding, as agreed with the Trustees, to ensure any pension deficit will be addressed to ensure pension payments made to current and future pensioners will be met.
204 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements For the Penton Schemes, the defined benefit scheme is administered by Penton Media, Inc. and is subject to the provisions of the Retirement Income Security Act 1974.
The Company is responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
The Scheme has no reimbursement rights.
The investment strategies adopted by the Trustees of the UK Schemes include some exposure to index-linked gilts and corporate bonds.
The investment objectives of the US Penton Schemes are to maximise plan assets within designated risk and return profiles.
The current asset allocation of all schemes consists primarily of equities, bonds, property, diversified growth funds, credit funds, LIBOR funds, bespoke funds and annuity contracts.
All assets are managed by a third party investment manager according to guidelines established by the Company.
c Defined benefit schemes risk Through the Group Schemes the Company is exposed to a number of potential risks as described below: Asset volatility: the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: however, the Group Schemes invest significantly in equities.
These assets are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, but provide volatility and risk in the short term.
Changes in bond yields: a decrease in corporate bond yields would increase the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation: however, this would be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Schemes bond holdings.
Inflation risk: a significant proportion of the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation: therefore higher inflation will result in a higher defined benefit obligation subject to caps for the UK Schemes.
The majority of the UK Schemes assets are either unaffected by inflation, or only loosely correlated with inflation, therefore an increase in inflation would also increase the deficit.
Life expectancy: if the Group Schemes members live longer than expected, the Group Schemes benefits will need to be paid for longer, increasing the Group Schemes defined benefit obligations.
The Trustees and the Company manage risks in the Group Schemes through the following strategies: Diversification: investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
Investment strategy: the Trustees are required to review their investment strategy on a regular basis.
There are three categories of pension Scheme members: employed deferred members: currently employed by the Company: deferred members: former colleagues of the Company: and pensioner members: in receipt of pension.
The defined benefit obligation is valued by projecting the best estimate of future benefit payments allowing for future salary increases for UK employed deferred members, revaluation to retirement for deferred members and annual pension increases for UK members and then discounting to the balance sheet date.
UK members receive increases to their benefits linked to inflation subject to caps for the UK Schemes.
There are no caps on benefits in the US Schemes as benefits are not linked to inflation in these Schemes.
The valuation method used for all Schemes is known as the Projected Unit Credit Method.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 205 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 34.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The approximate overall duration of the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2018 was as follows: 2018 2017 Penton US UBM UK Other UK Penton US Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes UK Schemes Overall duration years 14 14 19 15 20 The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the IAS 19 valuation for the Schemes are those relating to the discount rate, the rates of increase in price inflation, salaries, and pensions and life expectancy.
The main assumptions adopted are: 2018 2017 Penton US UBM UK Other Penton US Other UK Schemes Schemes UK Schemes Schemes Schemes Discount rate 4.10% 2.80% 2.80% 3.25% 2.4% Rate of price inflation n a 2.15% CPI 2.15% CPI n a 2.1% CPI 3.15% RPI 3.15% RPI 3.1% RPI Rate of increase for deferred pensions n a 2.15% 2.15% n a 2.1% Rate of increase for pensions in payment n a 1.853.60% 1.953.05% n a 1.93.0% Life expectancy: For an individual aged 60 male years 84 86 87 85 87 For an individual aged 60 female years 88 89 89 87 89 For the UK Schemes, mortality assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuations are taken from tables published by Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI.
The latest base tables for the other UK schemes use S2PMA males and S2PFA females, with UBM UK Schemes using 105% of the SAPS S2 tables based on the year of birth, and all UK Schemes use life expectancy improvements taken from CMI 2017 2017: CMI 2016 with the long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% 2017: 1.25%.
For the valuation of US Scheme liabilities, the RP-2014 mortality tables adjusted to 2006 total data set mortality have been used 2017: RP-2014 adjusted to 2006 total data set mortality, with life expectancy improvements using scale MP-2018 2017: scale MP-2017.
d Defined benefit schemes individual defined benefit scheme details Informa Final Salary Scheme The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years.
The result of this valuation determines the level of contributions payable by the Group.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme was performed by the Scheme actuary for the Trustees as at 31 March 2017.
This valuation revealed a funding shortfall of 5.5m.
The recovery plan shows annual employer contributions of 2.0m in the 12 months to 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2020 and 1.5m in the 12 months to 31March 2021.
The next triennial actuarial valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme will be as at 31 March 2020, at which point the recovery plan will be reassessed.
The Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2000 and closed to future accrual on 1 April 2011.
The Groups contribution over the year was 1.5m 2017: nil.
The weighted average duration of pension scheme liabilities was 19 years at 31 December 2018.
An actuarial valuation was carried out for IAS 19 purposes as at 31 December 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme was performed by the Scheme actuary for the Trustees as at 30 September 2017.
The valuation as at 30 September 2017 revealed a funding surplus of 1.7m and no recovery plan was required.
The next triennial actuarial valuation of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme is due as at 30 September 2020.
206 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2000 and closed to future accrual on 1 April 2011.
The Groups contribution over the year was nil 2017: nil.
UBM Pension Scheme UBMPS The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years.
The last actuarial full valuation was performed by the Scheme actuary for the Trustees as at 31March 2017.
This valuation revealed a funding shortfall of 11.2m.
The recovery plan shows annual employer contributions of 2.5m per annum for three years and two months from 1 January 2019.
The next triennial actuarial valuation will be as at 31 March 2020, at which point the recovery plan will be reassessed.
The Scheme was closed to future accrual on 31 August 2016.
United Newspapers Executive Pension Scheme UNEPS The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years.
The last actuarial full valuation was performed by the Scheme actuary for the Trustees as at 5April 2017.
This valuation revealed a funding surplus of 4.7m and no recovery plan was required.
The next triennial actuarial valuation is due as at 5 April 2020.
The Scheme now has only members who are pensioners in payment.
Penton Media, Inc. Retirement Plan Actuarial valuations are undertaken every year, with the result determining the level of contributions payable by the Group.
The last actuarial valuation of the Scheme was performed by the Scheme actuary as at 31 December 2018.
The Groups contribution over the year was 1.3m 2017: nil.
The employer expects to pay contributions during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2019 of 0.7m, with contributions for future years dependent on the level of deficits arising from future valuations.
The weighted average duration of pension scheme liabilities was 14 years at 31 December 2018.
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Actuarial valuations are undertaken every year, with the result determining the level of contributions payable by the Group.
The employer expects to pay nil contributions to the Scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2019.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the IAS 19 pension scheme liabilities are set out below: Sensitivity analysis at 31 December 2018 Impact on scheme liabilities: Increase Taylor & Informa Francis UBMPS UNEPS Penton m m m m m Discount rate decrease by 0.1% 1.8 0.4 6.9 0.1 0.4 Rate of price inflation pre-retirement increase by 0.25% 4.1 0.9 16.6 0.3 n a Life expectancy increase by 1 year 2.8 0.8 21.9 1.5 0.7 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 207 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 34.
Retirement benefit schemes continued e Defined benefit schemes individual defined benefit scheme details Amounts recognised in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Recognised in profit before tax Past service curtailment gain on closure of the UBM US Scheme 0.8 1 Past service cost associated with GMP equalisation 4.5 Interest cost on net pension deficit 1.1 1.1 Total cost 4.8 1.1 1.
G uaranteed Minimum Pension GM equalisation relates to the 26 October 2018 High Court judgement requiring Trustees to equalise for the unequal effect of GMPs for members earning GMPs between 17 May 1990 and 5 April 1997.
This requires that compensation is to be paid on a basis that is no more or less favourable regardless of gender.
2018 2017 m m Recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Return on Scheme assets 30.6 11.1 Experience loss gain 2.1 3.4 Change in demographic actuarial assumptions 0.7 0.9 Change in financial actuarial assumptions 13.7 0.9 Effect of movement in foreign currencies 0.2 0.3 Actuarial gain loss 14.3 14.2 2018 2017 m m Movement in net deficit during the year Net deficit in schemes at beginning of the year 23.6 38.0 New schemes associated with the UBM plc acquisition 8.3 Net finance cost 1.1 1.1 Past service cost from curtailment gain on closure of UBM US Scheme 0.8 1 Past service cost associated with GMP equalisation 4.5 Actuarial loss gain 14.3 14.2 Other payments to from Schemes 4.4 0.4 Effect of movement in foreign currencies 0.5 1.7 Net deficit in Schemes at end of the year before irrecoverable tax 30.5 23.6 1 Irrecoverable tax associated with UBM acquisition 3.2 1 Movement in irrecoverable element of pension surplus 0.7 1 Irrecoverable tax 2.5 Net deficit in Schemes at end of the year after irrecoverable tax 33.0 23.6 1.
U nder IFRIC 14, any surplus on the UK Schemes ultimately to be paid to the Company by the Trustees would be subject to a 35% tax charge prior to being repaid.
New Schemes include 3.2m of irrecoverable element of pension surplus at the acquisition date.
208 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in respect of the Group Schemes are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 679.2 176.3 Fair value of Scheme assets 648.7 152.7 1 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 2.5 Net deficit 33.0 23.6 Reported as: Retirement benefit surplus recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 4.5 Deficit in Scheme and liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 37.5 23.6 Net deficit 33.0 23.6 1.
The UBM UNEPS Scheme was in surplus at 31 December 2018 and the irrecoverable element of pension surplus was 2.5m.
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Opening present value of defined benefit obligation 176.3 184.4 New Schemes from UBM plc acquisition 526.7 Service cost associated with curtailment gain on closure of UBM US scheme 0.8 Past service cost associated with GMP equalisation 4.5 Interest cost 11.7 5.1 Benefits paid 25.0 5.4 Actuarial gain 16.5 3.4 Effect of movement in foreign currencies 2.3 4.4 Closing present value of defined benefit obligation 679.2 176.3 Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Opening fair value of Scheme assets 152.7 146.4 1 New schemes from UBM plc acquisition 535.0 Return on Scheme assets 10.6 4.0 Actuarial loss gain 30.6 10.8 Benefits paid 25.0 5.4 Contributions from the employer to the Schemes 4.4 Other payments made from Schemes 0.4 Effect of movement in foreign currencies 1.6 2.7 Closing fair value of Scheme assets 648.7 152.7 1.
New Schemes assets from the UBM plc acquisition are stated before the irrecoverable element amount of the surplus of 3.2m.
The assets of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme include assets held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited, Zurich Assurance Limited, Partners Group AG, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited, Standard Life Investments and Insight Investment Management Limited.
The assets of the Informa Final Salary Scheme include assets held in managed funds and cash funds operated by BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited, Partners Group AG, Zurich Assurance Limited, Standard Life Investments and Insight Investment Management Limited.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 209 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 34.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The assets of the UBM Pension Scheme include assets held in equities, absolute return bonds and bespoke Liability Driven Investment funds with Legal & General, diversified growth funds with Newton and Schroders, long-lease property with Aviva and M&G and an illiquid credit fund with M&G.
The assets of the United Newspapers Executive Pension Scheme include assets held in absolute return bonds and index-linked gilt funds with Legal & General.
The assets of the Penton Media, Inc. Retirement Plan and the Penton Media, Inc.
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Schemes include assets held in managed funds and cash funds operated by New York Life Insurance Company, BlackRock Institutional Trust Company NA, Invesco Asset Management Limited and others.
The Group Schemes assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
210 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 35.
Share capital and share premium Share capital Share capital as at 31 December 2018 amounted to 1.3m 2017: 0.8m.
For details of options issued over the Companys shares see Note 10.
Other reserves This note provides further explanation for the Other reserves listed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Employee Share Trust Reserves for and shares to be Merger Other ShareMatch issued reserve reserve shares Total m m m m m At 1 January 2017 6.5 578.6 2,154.3 1.6 1,570.8 Share award expense 5.4 5.4 Own shares purchased 0.9 0.9 Transfer of vested LTIPs 2.1 2.1 Adjustment to non-controlling interest arising from put option 0.1 0.1 Non-controlling interest adjustment arising from disposal 0.4 0.4 At 1 January 2018 9.8 578.6 2,154.6 2.5 1,568.7 Fair value loss on derivative Issue of new shares in relation to consideration for acquisition of UBM plc 3,544.6 3,544.6 Other issue of shares associated with settlement of UBM SAYE awards 2.2 2.2 Share award expense 8.1 8.1 Own shares purchased 3.5 3.5 Transfer of vested LTIPs 3.9 3.9 Non-controlling interest adjustment arising from disposal 4.3 4.3 At 31 December 2018 14.0 4,125.4 2,158.9 6.0 1,974.5 Reserve for shares to be issued This reserve relates to LTIPs granted to colleagues reduced by the transferred and vested awards.
Further information is set out in Note 10.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 211 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 36.
Other reserves continued Merger reserve The merger reserve was created in 2004 when the merger of Informa PLC and Taylor & Francis Group plc resulted in a merger reserve amount of 496.4m being recorded.
On 2 November 2016, the Group acquired Penton Information Services and the 82.2m share premium on the shares issued to the vendors was recorded as an increase in the merger reserve in accordance with the merger relief rules of the Companies Act 2006.
There were 427,536,794 shares issued on 18 June 2018 in connection with the acquisition of UBM plc, which at the acquisition date closing share price of 8.29 resulted in an increase in the merger reserve of 3,544.6m.
From 19 July 2018 to 13 December 2018 there were 256,689 shares issued in connection with the satisfaction of SAYE awards in the UBM business and resulted in an increase in the merger reserve of 2.2m.
Other reserve The other reserve includes the inversion accounting reserve of 2,189.9m which was created from an issue of shares under a Scheme of Arrangement in May 2014.
Employee Share Trust and ShareMatch shares As at 31 December 2018, the Informa Employee Share Trust EST held 564,091 2017: 388,118 Ordinary Shares in the Company at a market value of 3.6m 2017: 2.8m.
As at 31 December 2018, the ShareMatch scheme held 411,812 2017: 273,560 matching Ordinary Shares in the Company at a market value of 2.6m 2017: 2.0m.
At 31 December 2018 the Group held 0.1% 2017: 0.1% of its own called up share capital.
Non-controlling interests The Group has subsidiary undertakings where there are non-controlling interests.
At 31 December 2018, these non-controlling interests were composed entirely of equity interests and represented the following holding of minority shares by non-controlling interests: Brazil Design Show 45%, 2017: 45% UBM Trust Company Ltd 30% Chengdu Wiener Meibo Exhibitions Co. Ltd 40%, 2017: 40% Shenzhen Herong Exhibition Company Limited 30% Shanghai Yingye Exhibitions Co. Ltd 40%, 2017: 40% United Business Media M Sdn Bhd 4.1% Agra CEAS Consulting Limited 18.2%, 2017: 18.2% UBM Exhibitions Ltd 4.1% Bureau Europen fide Recherches SA 18.2%, 2017: 18.2% UBM Asia Thailand Co. Ltd 4.1% Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd 15%, 2017: 15% DSA Malaysia 4.1% Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd 15%, 2017: 15% Singapore Exhibition Services Ltd 4.1% Informa Tianyi Exhibitions Chengdu Co. Ltd 40%, 2017: 0% Sea Asia Singapore 13.7% Guangzhou Informa Yi Fan Exhibitions Co. Ltd 40%, 2017: 0% Seatrade Communications Singapore 4.1% Monaco Yacht Show S. A. M. 10%, 2017: 10% Myanmar Trade Fair Management 4.1% Yachting Promotions, Inc. 10%, 2017: 10% SES Vietnam Exhibitions 4.1% APLF Ltd 40% Malaysian Exhibitions Services 4.1% UBM BN Co. Ltd formerly Boannews co. 40% International Expo Management 4.1% China International Exhibitions Limited 30% Eco Exhibitions 4.1% Shanghai Expobuild International Exhibition Co. Ltd 30% Bangkok Exhibition Services 4.1% Shanghai UBM Showstar Exhibitions Co. Ltd 30% PT UBM Pamerindo Niaga Indonesia 35.7% Shanghai UBM Sinoexpo International Exhibitions Co. Ltd 30% UBM Exhibitions Philippines 4.1% UBMMG Holdings Sdn Bhd 4.1% Trade Link ITE 4.1% UBM Creativity Exhibition Shenzhen Company Ltd 35% Premier ITE 4.1% UBM Sinoexpo Holdings Ltd 30% ECMI ITE ASIA Sdn Bhd 4.1% UBM Sinoexpo Ltd 30% Navalshore Organizacao fide Eventos Ltda 40% UBM Mexico Exposiciones, S. A. P. I.
20% Sea Asia Singapore Pte Limited 10% 212 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 38.
Operating lease arrangements 2018 2017 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in Consolidated Income Statement for the year 36.0 27.8 At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2018 2017 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Within one year 47.3 1.0 27.6 0.7 Within two to five years 132.1 1.1 71.7 1.3 After five years 130.1 30.7 309.5 2.1 130.0 2.0 Operating lease payments on land and buildings represent rentals payable by the Group for certain properties.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below.
The following transactions and arrangements are those which are considered to have had a material effect on the financial performance and position of the Group for the year.
Transactions with Directors There were no material transactions with Directors of the Company during the year, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, Executives below the level of the Companys Board are not regarded as related parties.
During the period, the Group incurred expenses of 2.7m 2017: 2.2m and generated revenue of 3.2m relating to Microsoft UK.
One of the Groups Non-Executive Directors is the Chief Executive Officer of this organisation.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 113 to 125 and Note 9.
Other related party disclosures At 31 December 2018, Informa Group companies have guaranteed the pension scheme liabilities of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme, the Informa Final Salary Scheme and the UBM Pension Scheme.
Transactions with related parties are made at arms length.
Outstanding balances at year end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
There are no bad debt provisions for related party balances as at 31 December 2018, and no debts due from related parties have been written off during the year.
During the period, Informa entered into related party transactions to the value of 0.2m 2017:0.2m with a balance of 0.06m 2017: 0.07m outstanding at 31 December 2018.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 213 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 40.
Subsidiaries The listing below shows the subsidiary undertakings as at 31December 2018.
Ordinary Registered Ordinary Registered Company name Country Shares held office Company name Country Shares held office Academic Publishing Penton Media Asia Limited Hong Kong 100% HK3 Informa Limited Hong Kong 100% HK2 NND Biomedical Data India 100% IN1 Systems Private Limited Taylor & Francis Books India India 100% IN2 Informa Global Markets Japan 100% JA1 Pvt Limited Japan Limited Colwiz Limited Ireland 100% IR1 Informa Global Markets Singapore 100% SG1 Dove Medical Press Z New Zealand 100% NZ1 Singapore Private Limited Limited Marketworks Datamonitor South Africa 100% ZA1 Informa Healthcare AS Norway 100% NO1 Pty Limited Colwiz Pakistan Private Pakistan 100% PK1 Agra Ceas Consulting Limited United 82% UK1 Limited Kingdom Taylor & Francis S Pte Singapore 100% SG1 Agra Informa Limited United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom Datamonitor Limited United 100% UK1 Co-Action Publishing AB Sweden 100% SE1 Kingdom Taylor & Francis AB Sweden 100% SE1 Ebenchmarkers Limited United 100% UK1 Afterhurst Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Kingdom Informa Global Markets United 100% UK1 Cogent OA Limited United 100% UK1 Europe Limited Kingdom Kingdom James Dudley International United 100% UK1 Colwiz UK Limited United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom Kingdom Mapa International Limited United 100% UK1 Dove Medical Press Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Kingdom MRO Exhibitions Limited United 100% UK1 H. Karnac Books Ltd United 100% UK1 Kingdom Kingdom MRO Network Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Karnac Books Ltd United 100% UK1 Kingdom MRO Publications Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Psychology Press New Co. United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom OTC Publications Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Routledge Books Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Penton Communications United 100% UK1 Europe Limited Kingdom Taylor & Francis Books United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom TU-Automotive Holdings United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom Taylor & Francis Group United 100% UK1 TU-Automotive Limited United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom Kingdom Taylor & Francis Group, LLC United States 100% US14 Informa Telecoms & Media United 100% UK1 Taylor & Francis Limited United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom Kingdom Duke Investments, Inc. United States 100% US1 Taylor & Francis Publishing United 100% UK1 Farm Progress Limited United States 100% US3 Services Limited Kingdom Farm Progress VX LLC United States 100% US12 Icon Advisory Group LLC United States 100% US17 Business Intelligence Informa Business Intelligence, United States 100% US5 Datamonitor Pty Limited Australia 100% AU1 Inc. Ovum Pty Limited Australia 100% AU1 Informa Business Media United States 100% US2 Agra CEAS Consulting Belgium 82% BE1 Holdings, Inc. Bureau Europen fide Informa Business Media, Inc. United States 100% US2 Recherches S. A. Informa DataSources, Inc. United States 100% US6 Informa Economics FNP Brazil 100% BR4 Informa Media, Inc. United States 100% US2 Consultoria Ltda Informa Operating Holdings, United States 100% US2 INet Interactive Canada, Inc. Canada 100% CA3 Inc. F. O. Licht Germany 100% GE2 Internet World Media, Inc. United States 100% US10  Verlag Ovum, Inc. United States 100% US2 und Marktforschung GmbH Spotlight Financial, Inc. United States 100% US13 Datamonitor Publications Hong Kong 100% HK1 HK Limited Skipta, LLC United States 100% US4 Informa Global Markets Hong Kong 100% HK1 Trimtabs Investment United States 100% US15 Hong Kong Limited Research, Inc. 214 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Ordinary Registered Ordinary Registered Company name Country Shares held office Company name Country Shares held office Global Exhibitions Informa Life Sciences United States 100% US6 Exhibitions, Inc. Informa Fashion Pty Limited Australia 100% AU2 Informa Marine Holdings, Inc. United States 100% US16 Informa Middle East Limited Bermuda 100% BM1 Informa Pop Culture Events, United States 100% US6 Brasil Design Show Eventos, Brazil 55% BR1 Inc. Midias, Consultorias, Treinamentos e Participaes Southern Convention United States 100% US16 Ltda Services, Inc. Yachting Promotions, Inc. United States 90% US16 BTS Informa Feiras Eventos e Brazil 100% BR2 Editora Ltda Informa Canada, Inc. Canada 100% CA1 Knowledge & Networking Guanzhou Citiexpo Jianke China 60% CH22 IIR Pty Limited Australia 100% AU1 Exhibition Co. Ltd IBC Conferencesand Event China 100% CH2 Guangzhou Informa Yi Fan China 60% CH8 Management Services Exhibitions Co. Ltd Shanghai Co. Ltd. Informa Exhibitions Beijing China 100% CH4 New AG International Sarl France 100% FR1 Co. Ltd EBD Group GmbH Germany 100% GE1 Informa Tianyi Exhibitions China 60% CH9 Informa Holding Germany Germany 100% GE1 Chengdu Co. Ltd GmbH Informa Wiener Exhibition China 60% CH1 EBD GmbH Switzerland 100% SW1 Chengdu Co. Ltd Futurum Media Limited United 100% UK1 Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions China 85% CH5 Kingdom Co. Ltd IIR Limited United 100% UK1 Shanghai Meishing Culture China 85% CH6 Kingdom Broadcasting Co. Ltd Light Reading UK Limited United 100% UK1 Shanghai Yingye Exhibitions China 60% CH7 Kingdom Co. Ltd Knect365 US, Inc. United States 100% US11 Informa Egypt LLC Egypt 100% EG1 Euromedicom SAS France 100% FR1 UBM Eurovir SAS France 100% FR1 International Exhibition Bahamas 100% BH1 Itec Edition Sarl France 100% FR1 Holdings Limited Informa Monaco SAM Monaco 100% MC1 Arabian Exhibition Bahrain 100% BA1 Management Limited Monaco Yacht Show SAM Monaco 90% MC1 CTEE Centro fide Brazil 100% BR5 Informa Saudi Arabia LLC Saudi Arabia 100% SA1 Treinamento e Estudos Informa Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 100% SA2 em Energia Ltda Informa Exhibitions Pte Singapore 100% SG1 Live Healthcare Midia SA Brazil 100% BR6 Limited Navalshore Organizacao Brazil 60% BR7 Informa Middle East Media FZ United Arab 100% UAE1 fide Eventos Limiteda LLC Emirates Sienna Interlink Brazil 100% BR8 Design Junction Limited United 90% UK1 Comunicacoes Ltda Kingdom UBM Brazil Feiras e Brazil 100% BR8 E-Health Media Limited United 100% UK1 Eventos Ltda Kingdom China International China 70& CH10 IIR Exhibitions Limited United 100% UK1 Exhibitions Limited Kingdom Cosmosprof Shanghai China 50% CH11 IIR Management Limited United 100% UK1 Exhibitions Limited Kingdom Guangdong International China 50% CH12 IIR U. K. Holdings Limited United 100% UK1 Exhibitions Limited Kingdom Guzhen Lighting Expo Co. Ltd China 51% CH13 Informa Exhibitions Limited United 100% UK1 Shanghai Expobuild China 70% CH14 Kingdom International Exhibition Fort Lauderdale Convention United States 100% US16 Company Limited Services, Inc. Shanghai UBM Showstar China 70% CH15 Exhibition Co Limited Informa Exhibitions Holding United States 100% US7 Corp. Shanghai UBM Sinoexpo China 70% CH10 International Exhibitions Informa Exhibitions LLC United States 100% US7 Company Limited Informa Exhibitions U. S. United States 100% US8 Shenzhen UBM Herong China 70% CH16 Construction & Real Estate, Exhibition Company Inc. WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 215 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 40.
Subsidiaries continued Ordinary Registered Ordinary Registered Company name Country Shares held office Company name Country Shares held office UBM China Beijing Co. China 100% CH17 UBM plc Jersey 100% JE2 Limited UBMI UAE Jersey Limited Jersey 100% JE2 UBM China Beijing China 100% CH17 United Finance Jersey Jersey 100% JE2 Exhibition Company Limited Unlimited UBM China Guangzhou Co. China 100% CH18 Limited United Jersey Holdings Jersey 100% JE2 Unlimited UBM China Hangzhou China 100% CH19 Company Limited CMP Holdings Sarl Luxembourg 100% LU1 UBM China Shanghai Co. China 100% CH20 CMP Intermediate Luxembourg 100% LU1 Limited Holdings Sarl UBM Trust Company Limited China 70% CH21 UBM Finance Sarl Luxembourg 100% LU1 Stormcliff Limited Cyprus 100% CY1 UBM IP Luxembourg Sarl Luxembourg 100% LU1 UBM Medica Holding France 100% FR2 United Brazil Holdings Sarl Luxembourg 100% LU1 France SNC UNM Holdings Ireland Republic of 100% RI1 United Commonwealth Luxembourg 100% LU1 Ireland Holdings Sarl CMP Media GmbH Germany 100% GE3 United Consumer Media Luxembourg 100% LU1 Holdings Sarl Think Services Game Group Germany 100% GE4 Germany GmbH United CP Holdings Sarl Luxembourg 100% LU1 UBM Canon Deutschland Germany 100% GE5 United News Distribution Sarl Luxembourg 100% LU1 GmbH United Professional Media Sarl Luxembourg 100% LU1 APLF Limited Hong Kong 60% HK4 Cosmoprof Asia Limited Hong Kong 50% HK5 UNM Holdings Sarl Luxembourg 100% LU1 Hong Kong Exhibition Services Hong Kong 100% HK6 Vavasseur International Luxembourg 100% LU1 Limited Holdings Sarl MAI Brokers Asia & Pacific Hong Kong 100% HK7 DSA Exhibition and Malaysia 100% MA1 Limited Conference SDN BHD Mills & Allen Holdings Hong Kong 100% HK7 ECMI ITE Asia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 95.9% MA1 Far East Limited Eco Exhibitions Sdn Bhd Malaysia 95.9% MA1 UBM Asia Group Limited Hong Kong 100% HK7 Malaysian Exhibition Malaysia 95.9% MA1 UBM Asia Holdings HK Hong Kong 100% HK7 Services Sdn Bhd Limited UBM Asia Limited Hong Kong 100% HK7 Premier ITE Sdn Bhd Malaysia 95.9% MA2 UBM Asia Partnership Hong Kong 99% HK4 Trade Link ITE Sdn Bhd Malaysia 95.9% MA2 UBM Creativity Exhibition Hong Kong 65% HK8 UBMMG Holdings Sdn Bhd Malaysia 95.9% MA1 Shenzhen Co. Ltd United Business Media Malaysia 95.9% MA1 UBM SinoExpo Limited Hong Kong 70% HK7 M Sdn Bhd UBM South China Hong Kong 100% HK7 UBM Mexico Exposiciones, Mexico 80% ME2 UBM India Private Limited India 100% IN3 S. A. P. I. PT Pamerindo Indonesia Indonesia 95.9% ID1 Myanmar Trade Fair Myanmar 95.9% MY1 PT UBM Pameran Niaga Indonesia 64.3% ID2 Management Company Indonesia Limited UNM International Isle of Man 100% IM1 Kuben Holding B. V. Netherlands 100% NE3 Holdings Limited UBM Asia BV Netherlands 100% NE3 UNM Overseas Holdings Isle of Man 100% IM1 Limited UBMi BV Netherlands 100% NE4 Miller Freeman Israel Limited Israel 100% IS1 United Pascal France B. V. Netherlands 100% NE3 UBM Japan Limited Japan 100% JA2 United Pascal Holdings B. V. Netherlands 100% NE3 Miller Freeman Investments I Jersey 100% JE2 UPRN 1 SE Netherlands 100% NE3 Limited UBM Exhibitions Philippines 95.9% PH2 Miller Freeman Investments II Jersey 100% JE2 Philippines, Inc. Limited Chartbay Limited Republic of 100% RI1 MWFWAHC Investments Jersey 100% JE2 Ireland Unlimited MWFWAHC Investments No.
2 Jersey 100% JE2 CX Properties Republic of 100% RI1 Limited Ireland UBM Jersey Limited Jersey 100% JE2 Donytel Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Ireland UBM Investments Unlimited Jersey 100% JE2 216 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Ordinary Registered Ordinary Registered Company name Country Shares held office Company name Country Shares held office Garragie Investments Republic of 100% RI1 UBM Istanbul Fuarcilik five Turkey 100% TU2 Ireland Gosteri Hizmetleri A.. UBM NTSR Fuar five Gosten Turkey 100% TU3 Hickdale Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Hizmetleri A.. Ireland UBM Rotaforte Ullararasi Turkey 100% TU4 MAI Finance Ireland Republic of 100% RI1 Fuarcolik Ireland ABI Building Data Limited United 100% UK1 MAI Holdings Ireland Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland Advanstar Communications United 100% UK1 Maypond Limited Republic of 100% RI1 UK Limited Kingdom Ireland Airport Strategy and United 100% UK1 MFWWnet Republic of 100% RI1 Marketing Limited Kingdom Ireland AMA Research Limited United 100% UK1 Springport Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland Aztecgem United 100% UK1 Tanahol Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland Bank of Europe United 100% UK1 UBM Ireland No 1 Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland Blessmyth Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Ireland No 2 Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland CMP Information 2004 United 100% UK1 UBM Ireland No 3 Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Limited Kingdom Ireland CMP Information Holdings United 100% UK1 UBM Ireland No 4 Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland CMP Maritime Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Ireland No 5 Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland CMP Media UK Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Ireland No 6 Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland CMP Media Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Ireland No 8 Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland CMPI Group Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Ireland No 9 Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland CMPI Holdings Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Financial Services Ireland Republic of 100% RUI1 Kingdom Ireland Colonygrove Limited United 100% UK1 UBM IP Ireland Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland Crosswall Nominees Limited United 100% UK1 United Media Finance Ireland Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland DIVX Express Limited United 100% UK1 Wenport Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Kingdom Ireland Farming Press Limited United 100% UK1 UBM BN Co. Ltd Republic of 60% RK1 Kingdom Korea Great Tactic Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Korea Corporation Republic of 100% RK2 Kingdom Korea GNC Media Investments United 100% UK1 International Expo Singapore 95.9% SG2 Limited Kingdom Management Pte Limited Green Thinking Services United 100% UK1 Sea Asia Singapore Singapore 86.3% SG3 Limited Kingdom Pte Limited Hirecorp Limited United 100% UK1 Seatrade Communications Singapore 95.9% SG3 Kingdom Singapore Pte Limited Insight Media Limited United 100% UK1 Singapore Exhibition Services Singapore 95.9% SG4 Kingdom Pte Limited Ithaca Media Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Exhibition Singapore Singapore 95.9% SG3 Kingdom Pte Limited London On-Water United 100% UK1 Bangkok Exhibition Thailand 95.9% TH1 Kingdom Services Ltd MAI United 100% UK1 UBM Asia Thailand Co Ltd Thailand 95.9% TH2 Kingdom UBM I C Fuarcilik five Turkey 100% TU1 MAI Luxembourg UK United 100% UK1 Organizasyon Ticaret A.. Limited Kingdom WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 217 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 40.
Subsidiaries continued Ordinary Registered Ordinary Registered Company name Country Shares held office Company name Country Shares held office MAI Luxembourg SE United 100% UK1 UBM Shared Services United 100% UK1 Kingdom Limited Kingdom Miller Freeman Worldwide United 100% UK1 UBM TrUnited United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom Statestees Limited Kingdom Morgan Grampian United 100% UK1 UBM Worldwide Group United 100% UK1 Farming Press Limited Kingdom Limited Kingdom Nexgrove Investments Limited United 100% UK1 UBMA Holdings Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Kingdom OES Exhibitions Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Holdings Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Kingdom Research Solutions for United 100% UK1 UBM Limited United 100% UK1 Airports Limited Kingdom Kingdom Roamingtarget Limited United 100% UK1 United Advertising United 100% UK1 Kingdom Publications Limited Kingdom Safefine Limited United 100% UK1 United Consumer United 100% UK1 Kingdom Magazines Limited Kingdom Seatrade Communications Ltd United 100% UK1 United Consumer Media SE United 100% UK1 Kingdom Kingdom Smarter Shows Power United 100% UK1 United Executive United 100% UK1 Europe Holdings Limited Kingdom Trustees Limited Kingdom Smarter Shows Power United 100% UK1 United Finance Limited United 100% UK1 Holdings Limited Kingdom Kingdom Smarter Shows Power United 100% UK1 United Newspapers United 100% UK1 Europe Limited Kingdom Publications Limited Kingdom Smarter Shows Power United 100% UK1 United Trustees Limited United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom Kingdom Syndicate Nine Limited United 100% UK1 UNM Investments Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Kingdom The Builder Group Limited United 100% UK1 Vavasseur Overseas United 100% UK1 Kingdom Holdings Limited Kingdom Turtle Diary Limited United 100% UK1 WCN 2 Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Kingdom UAP Admin No.
6 Limited United 100% UK1 Workyard Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Kingdom UBM GP No 1 Limited United 100% UK1 Advanstar Communications Inc United States 100% US17 Kingdom Canon Communications United States 100% US18 UBM GP No 2 Limited United 100% UK1 France Inc. Kingdom CBI Research Inc. United States 100% US19 UBM GP No 3 Limited United 100% UK1 CMP Childcare Center, Inc. United States 100% US21 Kingdom ENK International LLC United States 100% US18 UBM UK Limited United 100% UK1 Healthcare Holdings, Inc United States 100% US18 Kingdom Ludgate USA LLC United States 100% US18 UBM Aviation Routes Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Miller Freeman Acquisition United States 100% US20 Corp UBM Aviation Worldwide United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom Rocket Holdings, Inc United States 100% US18 UBM Canon Europe Limited United 100% UK1 Roast LLC United States 100% US20 Kingdom Spectrum ABM Corp United States 100% US17 UBM Canon UK Holdings United 100% UK1 The Verecom Group, Inc United States 100% US20 Limited Kingdom UBM Canon LLC United States 100% US17 UBM Canon UK Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Delaware LLC United States 100% US20 Kingdom UBM Finance Inc United States 100% US20 UBM Holdings Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom UBM Holdings, Inc United States 100% US18 UBM International United 100% UK1 UBM Investments Inc United States 100% US20 Holdings SE Kingdom UBM LLC United States 100% US20 UBM Property Limited United 100% UK1 UBM Medica Group LLC United States 100% US18 Kingdom UBM UK LLC United States 100% US18 UBM Property Services United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom UBMi Princeton LLC United States 100% US18 218 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Ordinary Registered Ordinary Registered Company name Country Shares held office Company name Country Shares held office United Business Media United States 100% US20 Informa UK Limited United 100% UK1 Community Connection Kingdom Foundation Informa US Holdings Limited United 100% UK1 United Delaware United States 100% UK1 Kingdom Investments Limited LLP Limited United 100% UK1 SES Vietnam Exhibition Services Vietnam 95.9% VI1 Kingdom Company Limited Informa Academic and United States 100% UK1 Wenport Limited Republic of 100% RI1 Business, LLC Ireland Informa Export, Inc. United States 100% US6 Workyard Limited United 100% UK1 Informa Global Sales, Inc. United States 100% US6 Kingdom Informa Support Services, Inc. United States 100% US6 Informa USA, Inc. United States 100% US9 Group Informa Australia Pty Limited Australia 100% AU1 Name changed from Informa Group Plc to Informa Group Ltd in 2018.
Informa Holdings Australia Australia 100% AU1 Pty Limited Informa Enterprise China 100% CH3 Management Shanghai Co. Ltd. Informa European Financial Germany 100% GE1 Shared Service Centre GmbH Informa Switzerland Limited Jersey 100% JE1 IIR South Africa B. V. Netherlands 100% NE1 Informa Europe B. V. Netherlands 100% NE2 Lesbistes B. V. Netherlands 100% NE2 Informa Finance B. V. Netherlands 100% NE2 IBC Asia S Pte Limited Singapore 100% SG1 IIR Espana S. L. Spain 100% ES1 Informa Finance GmbH Switzerland 100% SW1 Informa IP GmbH Switzerland 100% SW1 IBC Ten Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom IBC Twelve Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom IBC Fourteen Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Informa Final Salary Pension United 100% UK1 Trustee Company Limited Kingdom Informa Finance UK Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Informa Finance USA Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Informa Group Holdings United 100% UK1 Limited Kingdom Informa Group Ltd United 100% UK1 Kingdom Informa Holdings Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Informa Investment Plan United 100% UK1 Trustees Limited Kingdom Informa Overseas United 100% UK1 Investments Limited Kingdom Informa Quest Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Informa Six Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom Informa Three Limited United 100% UK1 Kingdom WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 219 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 continued Company registered office addresses CH2 Room 2072, 2nd Floor, 124 Building, No.
960 Zong Xing Road, Jianan District, Shanghai, China UK CH3 Room 2201, Hong Kong New Tower, No.
300 Huai Hai Middle Road, UK1 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG, United Kingdom Huang Pu District, Shanghai, China CH4 Room 802, 8th Floor, No.
4, Workers Stadium North The Americas Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, China US1 748 Whalers Way, Building E. Fort Collins, CO 80525, USA CH5 Room 1010, 10F, No.
93 Nanjing West Road, Jianan District, Shanghai, China US2 1166 Avenue of the Americas, 10th Floor, New York, NY 10036, USA CH6 Room 101-75, No.
152 Alley, Yanchang Road, Zhabei District, US3 255 38th Avenue, Suite P, Saint Charles, IL 60174-5410, USA Shanghai, China US4 8N.
Queen Street, Suite 800, Lancaster, PA 17603, USA CH7 Room 234, 2nd Floor, M Zone, 1st Building, No.
3398, Hu Qing Ping US5 52 Vanderbilt Avenue, 11th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA Road, Zhao Xiang Town, Qing Pu District, Shanghai, China US6 101 Paramount Drive, Suite 100, Sarasota, FL 34232, USA CH8 Room 1103-1104, No.
996, East Xingang, Haizhu, Distrct, Guangzhou US7 2020 N. Central Avenue, Suite 400, Phoenix, AZ 85004, USA CH9 No.
19, Section 4, South Renmin Road, Wuhou US8 6191 N. State Highway, Suite 500, Irving, TX 75038, USA District, Chengdu, China US9 One Research Drive, Westborough, MA 01581, USA CH10 Floor 7 8, Urban Development International Tower, No.
355 Hong Qiao Road, XU Hui District, Shanghai 200030, China US10 1100 Superior Avenue, 8th Floor, Cleveland, OH 44114-2518, USA CH11 10 F Xian Dai Mansion, 218 Xiangyang Road, Shanghai 200031, China US11 708 Third Avenue, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA CH12 Room 405 Parkview Square, 960 Jie Fang Bei Road, Guangzhou US12 4580 Scott Trail, Suite 100, Eagan, MN 55122, USA 510040, China US13 2225 SE 60th Avenue, Portland, OR 97215, USA CH13 2F, Guzhen Convention & Exhibition Center, Zhongshan, Guangdong, US14 6000 NW Broken Sound Parkway, Suite 300, Boca Raton, FL 33487, USA China US15 1 Harbour Drive, Suite 211, Sausalito, CA 94965, USA CH14 Room 1019, 39 Weigaojiao, Shanghai, China US16 1115 NE 9th Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33304, USA CH15 9 F Ciros Plaza, 388 West Nanjing Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai US17 2901 28th Street, Suite 100, Santa Monica, CA 90405, USA 200003, China US18 2 Penn Plaza, 15th Floor, NY 10121, New York, USA CH16 Room 607, East Block, Coastal Building, Haide 3rd Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518054, China US19 70 Blanchard Road, Suite 301, Burlington, MA 01803, USA CH17 Unit 01-02, 12 F, Tower A, Park View Green, 9 Dongdaqiao Road, US20 1983 Marcus Avenue Suite 250, Lake Success NY 11042, USA Chaoyang District, Beijing 100020, China US21 600 Community Drive, Manhasset, NY 11030, USA CH18 Room 1159-1164, China Hotel Office Tower, Liu Hua Road, Guangzhou, BH1 M B & H Corporate Services Limited, Mareva House, 4 George Street, China Nassau, Bahamas CH19 Room 129, Floor 1, Building 1, No.
108 Kangqiao Road, Gongshu BM1 Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, Bermuda District, Hangzhou, China BR1 Rue Bela Cintra 967, 11th Floor, Suite 112-C, Consolao, So Paulo CH20 Room 207, No.
453 Fahuazhen Road, Shanghai, China 01415-003, Brazil CH21 Room 1806-1807, Fu Li Tian He Business Mansion, No.
4, Hua Ting BR2 Rue Bela Cintra 967, 11th Floor, Suite 112-A, Consolao, So Paulo Road, Lin He Dong Road, Guangzhou 510610, China 01415-003, Brazil CH22 Room 902, No.
996, East Xingang Road, Haizhu District, Guangzhou, BR3 Rue Bela Cintra 967, 11th Floor, Suite 111, Consolao, So Paulo China 01415-003, Brazil HK1 Suite 1106-8, 11 F Tai Yau Building, No 181 Johnston Road, Wanchai, BR4 Rue Bela Cintra 967, 11th Floor, Suite 112-B, Consolao, So Paulo Hong Kong 01415-003, Brazil HK2 Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Hong Kong BR5 Av Evandro Lins E Silva, 840, Sala 1206 1207 1209a1211, 22631-470, HK3 Level 15 Langham Place, 8 Argyle Street, Mong Kok, Kowloon, Rio fide Janiero, Brazil Hong Kong BR6 Rua Olimpiadas, So Paulo Vila Olimpia 04551-000, Brazil HK4 Room 812, Silvercord, Tower 1, 30 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, BR7 Centro fide Apolo II, Alphaville, Santana fide Parnaiba, So Paulo, Hong Kong 06541-060, Brazil HK5 17 F China Resources Building, 26 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong BR8 Alameda Tocatins, 75, Sala 1402, Edificio West Gate, Alphaville, HK6 Unit 1203, 12 F Harcourt House, 39 Gloucester Road, Wanchai, Barueri, CEP 06455-020, So Paulo, Brazil Hong Kong CA1 112th Floor, 20 Eglinton Avenue West, Yonge Eglinton Centre, Toronto, HK7 Room 812, Silvercord, Tower 1, 30 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui Kowloon, ON M4R 1K8, Canada Hong Kong CA2 c o McMillan LLP, Brookfield Place, 181 Bay Street, Suite 4400, Toronto, HK8 Unit 201, Building A, No.
1 Qianwan Road One, Qianhai Shenzhen & Ontario M5J 2T3, Canada Hong Kong Cooperation Zone, Shenzhen, China CA3 c o McMillan LLP, 1500 Royal Centre, 1055 West Georgia Street, ID1 Menara Utara Gedung Menara Jamsotek Lt. 12 unit TA 12-04 JI Jend.
Vancouver BCV6E 4N7, Canada Gabot Subroto No.
38, Jakarta, Indonesia ME1 Cintermex, Primer Nivel, Local 45, Av.
Parque Fundidora, 501, Col. ID2 Jalan Sultan Iskandar Muda, No 7 Arteri Pondok Indah, Obrera, Monterrey 64010, Mexico Kebayoran Lama, Jakarta Selantan, 12240, Indonesia ME2 Av.
Benjamin Franklin 235-4, DF06100, Mexico IN1 2nd & 3rd Floor, The National Council of YMCAs of India, 1 Jai Singh Road, New Delhi 110001, Delhi, India China & Asia IN2 Flat No.
143, Kalyan Nagar III, BA1 Building 1, Road 22, Block 414, Al-Daih, Po Box 20200, Jidhafs, Bahrain Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 500018, India CH1 No.
19, Section 4, South Renmin Road, Wuhou IN3 Unit No.
1&2, Times Square, Andheri Kurla Road, Marol, Andheri East, District, Chengdu, China 400 059, Mumbai, India 220 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JA1 5F Iwanami Hitotsubashi Building, 2-5-5 Hitotsubashi, Chiyoda-Ku, SA2 Office 110, Leaders Tower 2 King Fahad Road, PO Box 16743, Riyadh Tokyo 101-003, Japan 12333, Saudi Arabia UAE1 17th & 18th Floor, Creative Tower, P. O.
Box 422, Fujairah, UAE JA2 Kanda 91 Building, 1-8-3 Kajicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 101-0044, Japan ZA1 Broadacres Business Centre, Corner Cedar and 3rd Avenue, MA1 Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Broadacres Sandton, Gauteng 2021, South Africa Bangsar South, No 8, Jalan Kerinchi 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia MA2 B-13-15, Level 13, Menara Prima Tower B, Jalan PJU 1 39, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia Europe MY1 Apartment 203 204, Residence G, 12 A Kokkine Yeik Tha Street, BE1 Rue fide Commerce 20 22, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium Shwe Taung Gyar, Bahan Township, Yangon 11041 Myanmar CY1 2nd Floor, Sotiri Tofini 4, Agios Athanasios, Limassol 4102, Cyprus PH1 Unit 1003, Autel 2000 Corporate Centre, Valero Street Corner, ES1 C Azcona, 36 Bajo, 28028 Madrid, Spain Herrera Street, Saleedo Village, Makati City, Philippines FR1 37 avenue fide Friedland, 75008, Paris, France PH2 Unit 1 Mezzanine Floor Fly Ace Corporate Center, 13 Coral Way FR2 21 23, rue Camille Desmoulins, 92130 Issy les Moulineaux, France Barangay 76, Pasay City, NCR Fourth District, Philippines GE1 Isartorplatz 4, 80331, Munich, Germany PK1 6th Floor, City View, Block-3, Bahadur Yar Jung Co-operative Housing GE2 AM Muhlengraben 22, 23909, Ratzeburg, Germany Society, Shaheed Millat Road, Karachi, Pakistan GE3 Prielmayerstr.
3, c o Rter und Partner , RK1 8F, Woodo Building, 214 Mangu-ro, Jungnang-gu, Seoul 02121, 80335 Munich, Germany Republic of Korea GE4 Kaiser-Wilhelm-Str.
30, 12247, Berlin, Germany RK2 8F, Woodo Building, 129-3 Sangbong-dong Chungnang-gu, Seoul, GE5 Friedensplatz 13, 53721, Siegburg, Germany Republic of Korea IM1 First Names House, Victoria Road, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM2 4DF SG1 111 Somerset Road, #10-05 Tripleone Somerset, 238164, Singapore IR1 70 Sir John Rogersons Quay, Dublin 2, Ireland SG2 10 Kallang Avenue, 09-15, Aperia, 339510, Singapore IS1 Silver Building, Suite 112-115, 7 Abba Hillel Street, Ramat Gan 52522, SG3 10 Hoe Chaing Road, 20-05 Keppel Towers, 089315, Singapore Israel SG4 80 Robinson Road, 02-00, 068898, Singapore JE1 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey TH1 252 SPE Tower, 9th Floor, Phaholyothin Road, Samsennai, Phayathai, JE2 44 The Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG Jersey Bangkok, Thailand LU1 17 Boulevard Prince Henri, L-1724 Luxembourg TH2 428 Ari Hills Building, 18th Floor, Phahonyothin Road, Samsen Nai, MC1 Le Suffren, 7 Rue Suffren-Reymond, 98000, Monaco Phaya Thai, Bangkok 10400, Thailand NE1 Kabelweg 37, 1014 BA, Amsterdam, Netherlands VI1 10th Floor, Ha Phan Building, 17-17A-19, Ton That Tung Street, NE2 Schimmelt 32, Kantoor C, 7E Verdieping, 5611 ZX, Eindhoven, District 1, HCMC Vietnam Netherlands NE3 Coengebouw, Kabelweg 37, 1014 BA Amsterdam, Netherlands Australia & New Zealand NE4 fide Entree 73, 1101 BH, Toren A, Amsterdam, Netherlands AU1 Level 18, 347 Kent Street, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia NO1 c o Wahl-Larson, Advokatfirma AS, Fridtjof Nansens Plass 5, Oslo AU2 Level 5, 267 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia 0160, Norway NZ1 c o Hall & Parsons CA Limited, 145 Kitchener Road, Milford, Auckland RI1 68 Merrion Square, Dublin, Republic of Ireland 0620, New Zealand SE1 Box 3255, 103 65, Stockholm, Sweden SW1 Baarerstrasse 139, 6300 Zug, Switzerland Middle East & Africa TU1 Rzgarlbae Mah.
Kavak Sok, Smart Plaza B Blok, No: 31 1 Kat:8, EG1 7H, 263 Street, New Maadi, Cairo, Egypt 34805 Kavack-Beykoz, Istanbul, Turkey TU2 Molla Fenari Mah, Bab-i Ali Cad, No:9 K:3-4, Fatih 34120, Istanbul, SA1 Aziziya District Bin, Mahfouz Centre, PO Box 4100, Jeddah 21491, Turkey Saudi Arabia The proportion of voting power held is the same as the proportion of ownership interest.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of all entities controlled by the Company as at 31 December each year.
Refer to Note 2 for further description of the method used to account for investments in subsidiaries.
41 Contingent liabilities Consideration for the acquisition of Penton Information Services on 2 November 2016 included deferred consideration payable in October 2018 for anticipated future tax benefits.
The estimated fair value of this consideration of 16.9m $21.9m was paid in October 2018.
The final amount payable is under dispute with the seller, as a remaining amount of approximately 13.4m $17m is expected by the seller.
No provision has been made for this potential additional amount as the Directors do not consider it probable that an additional amount is due.
42 Post balance sheet events On 19 December 2018, the Group agreed the disposal of the Life Sciences media brands portfolio which was previously part of UBM plc for consideration of just over $100m, with the sale completing on 31 January 2019.
As a result, the balance sheet of the Life Sciences business was shown as held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2018.
On 15 February 2019 the Revolving Credit Facility was replaced with a new facility with two tranches: 600m for a 5-year term to February 2024 and 300m for a 3-year term to February 2022.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 221
