Governance Statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements make judgements and accounting Directors' confirmations The Directors are estimates that are reasonable and The Directors consider that the responsible for preparing prudent: and Annual Report and Accounts, taken the Annual Report, the as a whole, is fair, balanced and prepare the financial statements Directors Remuneration understandable and provides on the going concern basis unless Report and the financial the information necessary for it is inappropriate to presume that shareholders to assess the Group statements in accordance the Group and Parent Company and Parent Companys position will continue in business.
with applicable law and and performance, business model regulation.
The Directors are also responsible and strategy.
for safeguarding the assets of the Each of the Directors, whose names Company law requires the Directors Group and Parent Company and and functions are listed in the to prepare financial statements for hence for taking reasonable steps Annual Report and Accounts, each financial year.
Under that law, for the prevention and detection confirm that, to the best of their the Directors have prepared the of fraud and other irregularities.
knowledge: Group financial statements in The Directors are responsible for accordance with International the Parent Company financial keeping adequate accounting Financial Reporting Standards statements, which have been records that are sufficient to show IFRSs as adopted by the European prepared in accordance with and explain the Group and Parent Union, and the Parent Company United Kingdom Generally Company's transactions and disclose financial statements in accordance Accepted Accounting Practice with reasonable accuracy at any with United Kingdom Generally United Kingdom Accounting time the financial position of the Accepted Accounting Practice Standards, comprising FRS 101 Group and Parent Company and United Kingdom Accounting Reduced Disclosure Framework, enable them to ensure that the Standards, comprising FRS 101 and applicable law, give a true financial statements and the Reduced Disclosure Framework, and fair view of the assets, Directors Remuneration Report and applicable law.
Under company liabilities, financial position and comply with the Companies Act law, the Directors must not approve loss of the Company: 2006 and, as regards the Group the financial statements unless they the Group financial statements, financial statements, Article 4 of are satisfied that they give a true which have been prepared in the IAS Regulation.
and fair view of the state of affairs of accordance with IFRSs as adopted the Group and Parent Company and Under applicable law and by the European Union, give a of the profit or loss of the Group and regulations, the Directors are true and fair view of the assets, Parent Company for that period.
In also responsible for preparing a liabilities, financial position and preparing the financial statements, Strategic Report, Directors Report, profit of the Group: and the Directors are required to: Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors' Report includes a Corporate Governance Statement select suitable accounting policies fair review of the development that complies with that law and and then apply them consistently: and performance of the business those regulations.
state whether applicable IFRSs and the position of the Group and The Directors are responsible for as adopted by the European Parent Company, together with a the maintenance and integrity Union have been followed for the description of the principal risks of the Parent Companys website.
Group financial statements and and uncertainties that they face.
Legislation in the United Kingdom United Kingdom Accounting governing the preparation and Standards, comprising FRS 101, dissemination of financial have been followed for the statements may differ from Company financial statements, legislation in other jurisdictions.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Indivior Annual Report 2018 85 83 Statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements continued could impact the Group and Parent Disclosure of information Companys ability to operate.
The to auditors Directors have taken significant A Directors statement in relation steps to reduce the cost base of the to disclosure of relevant audit business and manage its capital information can be found in the structure and believe the Group has Directors Report on pages 78 to 82. sufficient liquidity to continue as Going concern a going concern for at least the The Groups business model, next twelve months.
However, a strategy, and viability assessment combination of the risks may require are set out in the Strategic Report additional measures such as further on pages 4 to 35, along with the cost savings or a change to the principal risks that could threaten litigation strategy.
the Groups business model, future Although the above factors performance, solvency or liquidity indicate the existence of material and the Groups risk management uncertainty which may cast strategy.
The Groups financial significant doubt about the Groups position, cash flows, liquidity ability to continue as a going position and financial assets and concern, the Directors have a liabilities are discussed in the notes reasonable expectation that the to the Group financial statements, Group and Parent Company have along with the Groups objectives, adequate resources to continue policies and processes for managing in operational existence through its financial risks, and the Groups the period ending June 2020. exposure to liquidity risk and Accordingly, the Directors continue capital risk.
to adopt the going concern basis The Directors have given the for accounting in preparing these going concern assessment due financial statements.
The viability consideration and have concluded statement is on page 35. that it is appropriate to prepare the This statement is made to fulfill the Group financial statements on a requirements of Provision C. 1.3 of going concern basis.
The Directors the UK Corporate Governance Code.
have considered the Groups By Order of the Board strategic plan, in particular with reference to the period through Kathryn Hudson June 2020.
As disclosed in Note 22 of Company Secretary of Indivior PLC the Group Financial Statements, the Directors have considered the 103-105 Bath Road impact of the DOJ, FTC and antitrust Slough, Berkshire, SL1 3UH litigations.
The final settlement Company Registration amount may be materially higher number: 9237894 than the $438m provision recorded March 1, 2019 at December 31, 2018, or require payment over a shorter period.
This, together with higher than expected loss of revenue following the 'at-risk' launch of generic buprenorphine naloxone sublingual film products, or failure for new products to meet expectations, 84 86 www.
