Financial Statements Shareholder information Shareholder information Annual General Meeting AGM Dividend The 2019 AGM will be held at 240 Blackfriars Road, London, SE18BF Informa generally pays dividends in June and September each year.
on Friday 24 May 2019 and will commence at 11.00 am.
Details of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are set out in Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends, the Notice of Meeting which is available on our website: and who wish to do so, should complete a mandate instruction http: www.
form available online at www.
co. uk or by contacting our Registrar using the details above.
Registrars If you wish to receive your dividends in a different currency, All general enquiries concerning holdings of Ordinary Shares you will need to register for the global payments service in Informa PLC should be addressed to our Registrar: provided by our Registrar.
Further information is available at http: www.
Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ Helpline: 44 0 370 707 1679 Shareholders can also elect to join Informas Dividend Website: http: www.
co. uk Reinvestment Plan DRIP, using their cash dividends to buy further Informa shares in the market.
Further details and full terms and conditions, including eligibility for Shareholders based The helpline is available between Monday and Friday, outside of the UK, are available at http: www.
To access your shareholding details online, go to http: www.
To register to use the website, you will Shareholders are able to buy or sell Informa PLC shares need your Shareholder reference number as shown on your using a share dealing facility operated by our Registrar.
share certificate or dividend voucher.
Shareholders can deal on the internet or by phone.
co. uk or call 44 0 370 703 0084 The website enables you to: between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm Monday to Friday for more information on this service, including eligibility and costs.
You should have your Shareholder Reference Number SRN view and manage all of your shareholdings: to hand when logging on or calling.
register for electronic communications: buy and sell shares online with the dealing service: and Please note that UK regulations require the Registrar to check deal with other matters such as a change of address, that you have read and accepted the Terms & Conditions transferring shares or replacing a lost certificate.
before being able to trade.
This could delay your first phone trade.
If you wish to trade quickly, we suggest visiting Electronic Shareholder communications http: www.
co. uk having first registered As part of Informas commitment to the sustainable use of online at http: www.
natural resources and reducing our environmental impact, we offer all Shareholders the opportunity to elect to register for electronic communications.
To elect to receive all future Shareholder communications by email, please visit http: www.
230 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements If you think that you may have been targeted, you should report ShareGift the matter to the FCA as soon as possible.
Further information ShareGift registered charity no.
1052686 is an independent can be found on the FCAs website http: www.
uk or by charity which specialises in releasing value from small calling their consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768 from the UK shareholdings generating funding for thousands of charities.
You should also notify ShareGift accepts donations of small uneconomic numbers of the Registrar by calling 44 0 370 707 1679. shares which it then aggregates, sells and donates the proceeds to a wide range of registered charities, based on the suggestions Tips on protecting your shareholding: of its donors and supporters.
Further information about ShareGift can be found on http: www.
org, by Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold emailing help@sharegift.
org or by calling 020 7930 3737. your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
Keep all documentation containing personal share ADR programme information in a safe place and destroy any correspondence On 1 July 2013, Informa established a Level I American you do not wish to keep by shredding it.
Depositary Receipt ADR programme with BNY Mellon, the Know when the dividends are paid and consider having your global leader in investment management and investment dividend paid directly into your bank rather than by cheque.
Each Informa ADR represents two Ordinary Shares If you change address or bank account, inform the Registrar and they trade on the Over-the-Counter market in the US immediately.
If you receive a letter from the Registrar under the symbol IFJPY ISIN US45672B2060.
regarding a change of address or bank details that you did not instigate, please ensure that you contact them Investors can find information on Informas ADRs at immediately on 44 0 370 707 1679. http: www.
com dr. Informas Ordinary Shares If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers continue to trade on the Premium Main Market of the London registered in the UK or in your country of residence.
Stock Exchange under the symbol INF ISIN: GB00BMJ6DW54.
Protecting your investment from share register fraud Shareholders should be aware that they may receive unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited investment advice or offers to buy or sell any shares.
If you receive any unsolicited phone calls or correspondence: Do not give out or confirm any personal information.
Make sure you record the correct name of the person who contacted you and the name of the organisation.
Do not hand over any money without first checking that the organisation is properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and doing further research.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 231
