Information for shareholders Shareholders have the opportunity to buy J. P. Morgan Transfer Agent Service Center Useful contacts or sell Indivior PLC shares using a share ADR Shareholders can contact: Registered address dealing facility operated by our Registrar, J. P. Morgan Chase Bank N. A. Indivior PLC Computershare.
Box 64504, St. Paul, 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire, dealing is available via the Investor MN 55164-0854, US SL1 3UH, UK Centre www.
co. uk : Registered in England and Wales General inquiries Internet Dealing the fee for this company number: 9237894 In the US: 1 800 990 1135 service will be 1% of the value of each Outside the US: 1 651 453 2128 Website: www.
com sale or purchase of shares subject Email: jpmorgan.
Stamp duty of Company Secretary 0.5% is also payable on all purchases.
Managing your shareholding Kathryn Hudson Before you trade you will need Investor Center Email: cosec@indivior.
com to register for this service.
This Investor Centre is Computershares can be done by going online at Registrar easy to use self-service website www.
Computershare Investor Services PLC www.
co. uk, available Telephone Dealing the fee for this The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, 24 7, through which Company service will be 1% of the value of the BS13 8AE, United Kingdom shareholders can do the following: transaction plus 35.
Stamp duty of Website: www.
co. uk amend personal details: 0.5% is also payable on all purchases.
Telephone: 44 0 370 707 1820 To use the service please call view payment and tax information: 44 0 370 703 0084 and have your register for eComms: and Annual General Meeting AGM Shareholder Reference Number view share balances.
The AGM will be held on May 8, 2019 at to hand.
the offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, These services are available eComms Milton Gate, 60 Chiswell Street, London Monday to Friday from 8am to 4.30pm All Indivior shareholders will be sent EC1Y 4AG.
The Notice of Meeting, together UK.
Please note that, due to the various Company communications, with information regarding the business regulations in the UK, Computershare are such as the Annual Report and Accounts to be conducted at the meeting and required to check that you have read and and Notice of AGM.
Our Registrar, results of voting, will be available accepted the Terms & Conditions before Computershare Investor Services PLC, on the Companys website being able to trade, which could delay is responsible for sending you these www.
If you wish communications as well as handling Shareholders are entitled to attend and to trade quickly, we suggest visiting the any queries you may have.
Shareholders who are Registrars website and registering online Indivior would like to invite you to join registered for eComms, and receive first at www.
the growing number of its shareholders shareholder documents electronically, American Depositary Receipts who have opted to receive their are permitted to cast their AGM vote shareholder communications via email.
In addition to having its securities listed electronically.
on the London Stock Exchange, Indivior Registering for eComms means that you Documents on display sponsors a Level 1 American Depositary will receive information by email quickly Copies of Directors service contracts, Receipt program in the US.
These ADRs and efficiently, and helps to assist us with Articles of Association and Terms of are publicly traded on a US over-theour commitment to the environment and Reference will be available for inspection counter market, under symbol INVVY: focus on cost control.
by shareholders at the AGM.
the value of one Indivior ADR By registering you will no longer receive corresponds to the value of five paper copies of Annual Reports or other ordinary shares of the Company.
Dealing in Indivior securities communications that are available For questions related to the Company Ordinary shares electronically, and instead will receive ADR Program, please contact J. P. Morgan The Company has ordinary shares emails advising you when and how to shareholder services on the details admitted to the Official List of the access documents online.
Shareholders below, or visit the J. P. Morgan Depositary Financial Conduct Authority and traded who receive eComms are entitled Receipts Services website at on the London Stock Exchange, a to request a hard copy of any such www.
Live trading data for document at any time free of charge from the Companys ordinary shares can be the Companys Registrar, and can also J. P. Morgan Depositary Bank accessed through www.
com revoke their consent to receive eComms 4 New York Plaza, Floor 12 New York, NY share-price-center, or via the London at any time.
1004, US Stock Exchanges website Visit www.
co. uk In the US: 866 JPM-ADRS www.
eComms to register for the eComms service, or alternatively contact Computershare via the telephone Key dates number under useful contacts.
First Quarter Financial Results Announcement May 2, 2019 Annual General Meeting May 8, 2019 Half Year Financial Results Announcement July 31, 2019 Third Quarter Financial Results Announcement October 31, 2019 Note: dates may be subject to change 131 Indivior Annual Report 2018 131 131 Information for shareholders continued Shareholder analysis Analysis of shareholder bands at December 31, 2018 Range No.
These Through ShareGift shareholders who guidance only.
Indivior can accept no are typically from overseas brokers who have only a very small number of shares, responsibility for the use that may be target UK shareholders offering to sell which might be considered uneconomic made of this information.
Any individual them what often turn out to be worthless to sell, are able to donate them to charity.
wishing to calculate their capital gains or high-risk shares in US or UK securities.
Donated shares are aggregated and tax should consult an appropriate and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being authorized professional adviser.
If you receive any unsolicited investment passed on to a wide range of UK advice you should firstly obtain the name The demerger of Indivior PLC from RB registered charities.
of the person and organization and check was approved by RBs shareholders on that they are properly authorized by the Please contact ShareGift with any December 11, 2014, and completed with FCA before getting involved, by visiting queries or for further information using the admission of Indivior securities to www.
the details below, or visit the ShareGift the London Stock Exchange at 8.00 am website at www.
Shareholders Using an unauthorized firm to buy registered on the RB share register at the or sell shares or other securities Email: help@sharegift.
org Demerger Record Time of 6.00 pm on will prohibit access to the Financial Telephone: 44 0 20 7930 3737 December 22, 2014 received one Indivior Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Address: PO Box 72253, London, ordinary share for each RB ordinary Compensation Scheme.
For the purposes of taxation of Dividends chargeable gains, the base cost of RB The Board, as indicated in the prospectus shares held immediately before the for the demerger in November 2014, demerger is the companies respective considered future dividend policy in the market values on December 23, 2014. light of the Companys current financial position, strategy and prospects.
Given Using the valuation methodology the uncertainties facing the Group, prescribed by section 272 3 TCGA, the including generic challenges to the market values of RB and Indivior shares were as follows: intellectual property of Suboxone Film, the level of gross debt together with the RB: 51.975 associated covenants and the need to Indivior: 1.325 seek to diversify the sources of revenue and cash-flow, the Company does not expect to pay ordinary dividends for the foreseeable future.
com Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
This guarantees that the paper comes from well managed forests and other controlled sources through to the finished document in the printing factory.
Annual Report 2018 Our name is iconic Our name is iconic of the individual patients journey to reclaim life from the disease of addiction and our endeavor to address patients unmetneeds.
Our logo radiates our patient focused, holistic approach to expanding access to evidence-based treatment for addiction worldwide.
