Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 121 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Revenues relating to Ligado was previously recognised when amounts fell due.
This differs from the treatment under IFRS 15 which requires the full transaction Inmarsat plc the Company or, together with its subsidiaries, the Group is price to be apportioned over the contract term.
This has been calculated using a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and domiciled in England and an output measure.
A finance component in relation to deferred payments has Wales.
The address of its registered office is 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX, been recognised.
The table below shows the combined impact on Group comprehensive income: 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Income statement for year ended 31 December 2017 The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been applied consistently IFRS 15 $ in millions Reported adjustment Restated to all the years presented unless otherwise stated.
Revenues 1,400.2 8.5 1,391.7 BASIS OF PREPARATION These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Other operating costs 209.1 16.3 192.8 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EBITDA 731.5 7.8 739.3 European Union, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Depreciation and amortisation 406.7 5.1 411.8 Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for certain financial instruments that have been Operating profit 321.5 2.7 324.2 measured at fair value, as described later in these accounting policies.
Financing income 6.5 1.3 7.8 GOING CONCERN Profit before tax 229.8 4.0 233.8 The Group has a robust and resilient business model, positive free cash flow Tax 47.5 1.3 48.8 generation and is compliant with all banking covenants.
Because of this, the Profit after tax 182.3 2.7 185.0 Directors believe that the Company and the Group are well-placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After considering current financial projections and facilities available and after making enquiries, the Directors have a On the balance sheet, property, plant and equipment increased due to the capitalisation of installation costs.
Additionally an increase in trade and reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate other payables in the form of deferred income was recognised, reflecting resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat plc continues to adopt the going concern basis in the corresponding delay in the recognition of installation revenue.
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The Ligado impact is largely limited to the balance sheet with payments Further discussion of the Groups business activities, together with factors likely which were contractually deferred and were previously offset against deferred to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the revenue now being recognised as receivables.
Strategic Report which encompasses the Chairmans review, the Chief Executives review, the financial review and the viability statement on pages 1 to 59.
IFRS 15 has resulted in an increase to property, plant and equipment, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables of $8.5m, $11.0m and BASIS OF ACCOUNTING $29.4m respectively on the 2017 opening balance sheet.
This has led to The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is a decrease in the opening retained earnings of $9.9m.
the functional currency of the Company and most of the Groups subsidiaries.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with Balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect IFRS 15 the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent $ in millions Reported adjustment Restated assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts Non-current assets of revenue and expenses during the year.
Although these estimates are based on managements best estimate of the amount, event or actions, the actual Property, plant and equipment 3,236.6 18.9 3,255.5 results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
Further discussion on these Deferred income tax asset 35.6 0.2 35.4 estimates and assumptions are disclosed in note 4.
Current assets ACCOUNTING POLICY CHANGES 1 Trade and other receivables 319.4 25.0 344.4 New and amended accounting standards adopted by the Group Total assets 4,959.5 43.7 5,003.2 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers Current liabilities The Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contract with Customers Trade and other payables 584.6 49.8 634.4 revenue standard for the year ended 31 December 2018 using the fully Non-current liabilities retrospective method.
Deferred income tax liabilities 237.3 1.1 238.4 Two revenue streams were identified as areas requiring Group policy change to align with IFRS 15.
These are installation revenues and revenues from the Total liabilities 3,704.2 50.9 3,755.1 Ligado contract.
Net assets Equity 1,255.3 7.2 1,248.1 Installation revenues have previously been recognised in full on completion 1 Trade and other receivables do not include the adjustment for the change in accounting policy relating of work.
Under IFRS 15, installation on equipment owned by the Group is not to unallocated launch slots considered a distinct performance obligation.
The price charged to the customer is added to the transaction price and is spread over the related contract period.
Similarly installation costs, which were previously expensed on installation, are now capitalised and depreciated over the contract period.
122 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 122 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED In the cash flow statement, the impact of the accounting policy change The lease liability of $87.2m has been calculated as at 1 January 2018 using is limited to the reclassification of installation costs from cash generated the present value of the unpaid lease payments over the lease term specific from operations into investing activities.
The overall movement in cash to each lease, using the incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.
The liability has been separated between a current $13.1m and a non-current liability $74.1m.
A right of use asset of $75.7m has been created based on Cashflow as at 31 December 2017 being equal to the lease liability, adjusted by $11.5m of accruals related to IFRS 15 the phasing of lease payments.
The weighted average lessees incremental $ in millions Reported adjustment Restated borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities recognised at the date of initial application was 3.6%.
Cash generated from operations 774.4 15.4 789.8 Net cash inflow from operating In terms of the Groups financial performance for 2018, EBITDA is $12.8m higher activities 760.1 15.4 775.5 under IFRS 16 compared to the previous standard excluding the gain on revaluation of lease liabilities, as lease costs are removed from operating Purchase of property, plant and costs and used to reduce the liability.
Profit before tax is only $0.6m higher equipment 438.9 15.4 454.3 as the right-of-use assets attract depreciation and the unwinding of the Net cash used in investing activities 546.7 15.4 562.1 discounted cash flows result in an interest charge.
Net decrease increase in cash IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and cash equivalents 115.2 115.2 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued by the IASB in July 2014, has been adopted by the Group on the effective date of 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 In terms of the Groups financial performance for 2018, EBITDA is $7.5m higher supersedes the existing accounting guidance in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: under IFRS 15 compared to the previous standard, as revenues removed of Recognition and Measurement and the related interpretations.
The standard $2.5m did not exceed costs removed of $10.0m.
was applied using the modified retrospective approach for year ended Profit after tax was $4.5m higher driven by the increased EBITDA and finance 31 December 2018 with the exception of hedge accounting.
The Group income of $2.4m and offset by increased depreciation of $5.4m.
Restated has not restated prior periods or recognised any adjustments in opening basic and diluted EPS is $0.41 and $0.40 per share.
retained earnings IFRS 16 Leases The new standard covers the accounting treatment of the following three areas: IFRS 16 Leases, as issued by the IASB in January 2016, has been adopted by classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities the Group on 1 January 2018 in advance of its effective date.
The Group has applied IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach.
This approach impairment of financial assets allows the recognition of the lease liability and asset as at 1 January 2018 hedge accounting with no restatement of prior period financial statements.
The Group has also applied the practical expedient on transition to apply a single discount rate Classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics.
The Group has IFRS 9 requires financial asset classification to be based on contractual cash adopted the practical expedients relating to short term and low value assets flow characteristics and the objective of the Group in holding the financial which allow these to be expensed through the income statement.
The new measurement model results in the reclassification of all financial assets due to the reduction in classification categories to amortised cost, fair The main impact is around property leases where the Group is the lessee.
value through profit and loss and fair value through other comprehensive The Group also has a number of unrecognised non-cancellable contractual income.
The changes have not had a quantitative impact on the financial commitments relating to network service contracts and maintenance statements with accounting treatment remaining unchanged.
contracts, which have varying terms.
These do not constitute identified assets and do not meet the definition of a lease under IFRS 16.
These have The table below shows the assessment performed by the Group.
therefore continued to be expensed through the income statement.
IFRS 9 The adjustments as at 1 January 2018 to the Groups Balance Sheet are the IAS 39 IAS 39 Classification & recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities.
These are shown in Financial Asset Classification Measurement measurement the table below.
Trade receivables Loans and Amortised cost Amortised cost receivables Balance sheet as at 1 January 2018 Accrued income Loans and Amortised cost Amortised cost IFRS 16 Post IFRS 16 $ in millions Reported adjustment adjustment receivables Non-current assets Other receivables Loans and Amortised cost Amortised cost receivables Right of use asset 75.7 75.7 Cash and cash Fair value Fair value Fair value through Total assets 4,959.5 75.7 5,035.2 equivalents through profit through profit profit and loss Current liabilities and loss and loss Trade and other payables 584.6 11.5 573.1 Short-term Loans and Amortised cost Amortised cost deposits receivables Lease obligations 13.1 13.1 Non-current liabilities Impairment of financial assets Lease obligations 74.1 74.1 The IAS 39 incurred loss model is replaced by the IFRS 9 forward looking Total liabilities 3,704.2 75.7 3,779.9 expected credit loss model.
The new model requires either 12-month expected credit losses ECLs, or lifetime ECLs to be recognised for all financial assets Net assets Equity 1,255.3 1,255.3 at initial recognition, before an impairment event occurs.
The Group has applied the simplified approach under the expected credit loss model, which leads to lifetime expected credit losses always being recognised.
Under the standard, a provisioning matrix can be used to group financial assets and calculate the expected credit losses based on these groupings.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 123 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 123 The Group uses a matrix based on ageing and internal credit ratings which are Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property allocated to all debtors.
Refer to note 18 for further details.
Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based There has been no material impact on 2018 or the prior year due to the adoption Payment Transactions of the ECL model.
Amendments to IFRS 4: Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Hedge Accounting Insurance Contracts Given the Groups limited hedging activities and the lack of benefit to financial BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION statement users for adopting the hedging requirements of IFRS 9, the Group The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of has elected not to adopt this until mandatory and has maintained the treatment the Company and all its subsidiaries, and incorporate the share of the results under IAS 39. of associates using the equity method of accounting.
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the IFRIC 22 is effective from 1 January 2018 and is applied prospectively.
The period are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of interpretation clarifies how to account for transactions that involve advance establishment or acquisition of control.
The results of subsidiary undertakings consideration paid or received in a foreign currency.
This has had no impact disposed of during the period are included until the date of disposal.
necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries Revised accounting policies adopted by the Group to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All transactions, balances, income and expenses with and between subsidiary Unallocated launch slots undertakings have been eliminated on consolidation.
Following significant investment in future growth combined with rapid changes in technologies, the Group has refined operational processes to be more agile Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries, and adaptive in order to capture and secure market share.
In turn the Group which consist of the amounts of those interests at the date of the original have reassessed their current accounting policies specifically around the business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes launch process to ensure these are reflective of the operational changes.
in equity since the date of the combination, are not material to the Groups The Group consider the need for a portfolio of launch slots to provide flexibility financial statements.
to launch satellites as and when they are required.
Previously unallocated BUSINESS COMBINATIONS launch slots were recorded in prepayments.
These have been reclassified to Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
When the Group acquires a business, it identifies the assets and liabilities As a result, the comparative financial numbers for the year 2017 have been of the acquiree at the date of acquisition and measures them at fair value.
restated and intangible assets have increased by $19.2m to $808.1m and total Only separately identifiable intangible assets are recognised.
Any assets prepayments have decreased by $19.2m to $30.7m.
There has been no impact or disposal groups held for sale at the acquisition date are measured to total assets.
at fair value less costs to sell.
New and amended accounting standards that have been issued Consideration is the fair value at the acquisition date of the assets transferred but are not yet effective and have not been adopted by the Group and liabilities incurred in acquiring the business and includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
Changes in fair value of contingent IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments consideration after the acquisition date are recognised in the income IFRIC 23 will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. statement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included The interpretation clarifies the application of recognition and measurement in operating costs.
requirements in IAS 12 for uncertain tax positions.
Guidance is provided on a number of areas including whether uncertain tax positions should be Goodwill is initially measured at cost as the difference between the fair value considered separately or together, the appropriate method to reflect of the consideration for the acquisition and fair value of the net identifiable uncertainty, and how to account for changes in facts or circumstances.
assets acquired, including any identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill.
If the assessment of goodwill results in an excess of the fair value of net When IFRIC 23 is adopted, it can be applied either on a full retrospective basis, assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the requiring the restatement of the comparative periods presented in the financial gain is recognised in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill statements, where possible without the use of hindsight or with the cumulative is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose retrospective impact of IFRIC 23 applied as an adjustment to equity on the of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cashdate of adoption.
The Group is expected to adopt IFRIC 23 retrospectively generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business on the 1 January 2019 with the cumulative effect recognised in equity on the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree date of adoption.
are assigned to those units.
The Group has assessed the impact that IFRIC 23 will have on the uncertain FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION tax positions as at 31 December 2018.
The material impact of the adoption of The functional currency of the Company and most of the Groups subsidiaries, IFRIC 23 is a change in the most appropriate method to reflect the uncertainty as well as the presentation currency of the Group, is US Dollar.
This is as the in the uncertain tax positions.
The expected adjustment as at 1 January 2019 in majority of operational transactions and financing are denominated in the Groups Balance Sheet is an increase of $7.5m to the current tax creditor US Dollars.
and an increase of $6.2m to the deferred tax creditor, while opening 2019 retained earnings are expected to decrease by $13.7m.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange rates IFRS 17 will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021 and are recognised in the income statement line which most appropriately supersedes IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, subject to endorsement by the EU.
reflects the nature of the item or transactions.
Neither standard is applicable to the Group.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated Amendments to accounting standards that are effective for into the Groups presentation currency at the prevailing spot rate at year end.
the current period The results of foreign operations are translated into US Dollars at the average The following standards have all been endorsed by the EU and are effective rates of exchange for the year.
Foreign currency translation differences for the current period.
The Group has considered all the below amendments resulting from consolidating foreign operations are recognised in other and has determined that these do not have a material impact.
124 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 124 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED REVENUE A contract asset or a contract liability will arise when the performance of The Group applies the 5 step-model as required by IFRS 15 in recognising either party exceeds the performance of the other.
Contract assets are its revenues.
A contracts transaction price is allocated to each distinct rights to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the entity has performance obligation and recognised as revenue when, or as, the transferred to a customer when that right is conditional on something other performance obligation is satisfied.
Contract liabilities are obligations to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the entity has received consideration, or for Mobile satellite communications service revenues result from utilisation which an amount of consideration is due to the customer.
These are referred charges that are recognised as revenue over the minimum contract period.
to as deferred income within the Group.
The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgement and is based on the nature of the products or services to Contract costs to obtain a contract and fulfil a contract are capitalised and be provided.
Because of control transferring over time, revenue is recognised amortised on a systematic basis, consistent with the pattern of transfer of the based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance goods or services to which the capitalised cost relates.
Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite communications a cost to obtain contract with a customer will be immediately expensed if it has services or subscription fees represents the unearned balances remaining an amortisation period of one year or less.
from amounts received from customers pursuant to prepaid contracts.
FINANCING INCOME AND FINANCING COST The Group enters into minimum spend contracts with customers, known as Financing income comprises interest receivable on funds invested in shorttake-or-pay contracts, whereby customers agree to purchase a minimum term deposits.
value of mobile satellite communications services over a fixed period.
Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings including the Any unused portion of the prepaid contracts or the take-or-pay contracts Senior Notes and Convertible Bonds, accretion of the liability component breakage that is deemed highly probable to occur by the expiry date is of the Convertible Bonds, amortisation of deferred financing costs, the unwind estimated at contract inception and recognised over the contract period of the discount on deferred satellite liabilities, interest on lease liabilities and in line with the pattern of actual usage of units by the customer.
interest on the net defined benefit and post-employment asset liability.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such time as the Finance charges are recognised in the income statement at the effective customer uses the airtime and subsequently recognised over time.
from prepaid credit deferrals which is considered highly probable is estimated The change in fair value of the derivative liability component of the 2023 and recognised from contract inception.
Mobile satellite communications Convertible Bond is presented within net financing costs in the income service revenues from capacity sold are recognised on a straight-line basis statement.
Further details on the accounting for derivative financial over the term of the contract concerned, which is typically between one and instruments is provided below.
12 months, unless another systematic basis is deemed more appropriate.
FINANCIAL ASSETS Revenue from spectrum coordination agreements such as Ligado Networks, is recognised at a point in time based on standalone selling prices.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables, including prepaid and accrued income, are Revenue from service contracts is recognised as the service is provided over initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost time based on the contract period.
using the effective interest method.
The Group stratifies trade debtors based on internal credit ratings.
The Group calculates the loss allowance for trade Revenue of terminals and other communication equipment sold are receivables and contract assets based on lifetime expected credit losses recognised at the point in time when control is transferred to the customer.
under the IFRS 9 simplified approach.
Installation revenues relating to this are also recognised at a point in time.
Revenue from installation of terminals and other communication equipment Cash and cash equivalents owned by Inmarsat and used in the delivery of the service to the customer is Cash and cash equivalents, measured at fair value, comprises cash balances, however recognised over the contract term.
deposits held on call with banks, money market funds and other short-term, The Group offers certain products and services as part of multiple deliverable highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Consistent with all other contracts, the Group will assess overdrafts are shown as current liabilities within borrowings on the balance sheet.
whether the performance obligations are distinct by considering whether 1 the FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY customer can benefit from good or service on its own: or together with other readily available resources 2 the good or service is distinct in the context of Equity instruments the contract.
The transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the based on its stand-alone selling price relative to the total of all performance net assets of the Group.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded obligations stand-alone selling prices under the contract.
at the proceeds received, net of direct issue cost.
The nature of the contracts within the Group may give rise to variable Trade and other payables consideration.
This is estimated as the most likely amount based largely on Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently an assessment of the anticipated performance and all information historical, measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
current and forecasted that is reasonably available and is included in the Borrowings transaction price to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant Borrowings, comprising interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts, are initially reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue will not occur.
recognised at fair value which equates to the proceeds received, net of direct Where a contract contains a significant financing component, the Group transaction and arrangement costs.
They are subsequently measured at adjusts the transaction price to a present value where the effect of discounting amortised cost.
Finance charges related to borrowings, including amortisation is deemed to be material.
The Group has adopted the practical expedient of direct transaction costs, are charged to the income statement over the whereby it is not required to adjust the transaction price for the effects of a term of the borrowing using the effective interest rate method.
significant financing component if, at contract inception, the period between Borrowings are generally classified as current liabilities unless the Group has customer payment and the transfer of goods or services is expected to be the unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months one year or less.
For contracts with an overall duration greater than one year, after the balance sheet date, in which case borrowings are classified as the practical expedient also applies if the period between performance and non-current liabilities.
payment for that performance is one year or less.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 125 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 125 Convertible Bonds EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group has issued Convertible Bonds which are net share settled Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, instruments.
Upon conversion the Group will repay the principal in cash bonuses and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the and satisfy the remaining conversion value by issuing ordinary shares of associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
the Company if the market value of the Companys shares at settlement Termination benefits are payable whenever an employees employment date exceeds the conversion price.
Upon issuance, the embedded options is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee did not meet the fixed-for-fixed criterion under IAS 32.
These embedded accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group options represent non-closely related embedded derivatives that are recognises termination benefits when it has demonstrably committed to either bifurcated from the host debt contract and measured at fair value through terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination profit and loss.
The issued instrument has multiple embedded derivatives, all benefits, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
derivatives that relate to the same risk exposure are assessed and accounted for as a single compound instrument.
The Group recognises liabilities relating to defined benefit pension plans and post-employment benefits in respect of employees.
The Groups net The cash debt component is initially recognised as the present value of the obligations in respect of defined benefit pension plans and post-employment principal and interest payments using a discount rate for a similar instrument benefits are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount with the same terms and conditions but without the conversion option.
After of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in initial recognition, it is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest the current and prior periods.
The estimated future benefit is discounted method with the interest expense recognised in the income statement and to its present value, from which the fair value of any plan assets is deducted a cash outflow resulting from coupon payments to bond holders.
to calculate the plans net asset liability position.
The calculations are The derivative liability component is initially assigned the residual amount performed by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
after deducting from the fair value of the instrument as a whole, the fair value All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the of a comparable, non-convertible bond, known as a debt host contract.
defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets are immediately The derivative liability is sensitive to changes in the bond price and is markedrecognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
to-market at each reporting date with the increase or decrease recognised The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
Pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are charged to the income Senior Notes statement when the related employee service is rendered.
The Group has issued Senior Notes that are included within borrowings, The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees.
and are initially recognised at fair value which equates to the proceeds Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value of the options received, net of direct transaction costs and any premium or discount.
The fair value of the options is expensed on a straightThese instruments are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares charges, including amortisation of direct transaction costs and any premium that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based or discount, are recognised in the income statement over the term of the vesting conditions.
borrowing at the effective interest rate method.
TAXATION Net borrowings Net borrowings consists of total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents Current tax and short-term investments.
Borrowings exclude accrued interest and any The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit derivative financial liabilities.
differs from net profit as reported in the income statement as it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items Derivative financial instruments that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
by the balance sheet date.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract is Deferred tax entered into and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising between assets and remeasurement is recognised in the income statement, except where the liabilities tax bases and their carrying amounts the balance sheet method.
derivative is used to hedge against risks such as fluctuations in interest rates Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or foreign exchange rates.
The accounting policy for hedging follows below.
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply Cash flow hedges when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is is settled.
recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the cash flow Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future hedge reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the taxable profits will be available against which the temporary deductible income statement within financing costs.
differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
Where there is a material contract with a foreign currency exposure, a specific Deferred tax liabilities are provided on all taxable temporary differences except hedge to match the specific risk will be evaluated.
At present the Group only on those: hedges certain foreign currency milestone payments to Airbus and Thales for the construction of the I-6 and GX-5 satellites.
arising from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction Amounts recognised as other comprehensive income are transferred to profit affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised, or when a forecast associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, but only to the sale occurs.
When the hedged item is the future purchase of a non-financial extent that the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the differences asset or non-financial liability, the amount recognised as other comprehensive and it is probable that the reversal will not occur in the foreseeable future income is transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable or liability.
right to set them off, when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and if the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
126 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 126 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Uncertain tax positions Depreciation The Groups policy is to comply with all enacted laws in the relevant jurisdictions Depreciation is calculated to write-off the historical cost less residual values, in which the Group prepares its tax returns.
However, tax legislation, especially if any, of fixed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the expected as it applies to corporate taxes, is not always prescriptive and more than useful lives of the assets concerned.
The Group selects its depreciation rates one interpretation of the law may be possible.
In addition, tax returns in many and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take into account jurisdictions are filed in arrears a year or more after the end of the accounting any changes in circumstances or expectations.
When determining useful lives, period to which they relate.
The tax authorities often have a significant the principal factors considered are the expected rate of technological period in which to enquire into these returns after their submission.
As a result, developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the differences in view, or errors in returns, may not come to light until some time intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
Any change in useful after the initial estimate of tax due is determined.
This necessarily leads to lives are accounted for prospectively.
The Group also reviews the residual a position of uncertain tax positions.
values and depreciation methods on an annual basis.
Where the Group is aware of significant areas where the law is unclear and Derecognition where this has been relied upon in a filing position of a tax return, or, in an area An item of property plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when where different outcomes and interpretations are possible and may lead to a no future economic benefit is expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or different result, the Group provides for the uncertain tax position.
A provision loss arising on derecognition of the asset, calculated as the difference between is made when, based on the available evidence, the Group considers that it is the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, is recognised probable that further amounts will be payable, or a recoverable tax position in the income statement.
will be reduced, and the adjustment can be reliably estimated.
The Group GOVERNMENT GRANTS calculates the uncertain tax position using a single best estimate of the Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance most likely outcome on a case-by-case basis.
that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT with.
A grant that relates to an expense item is recognised as income on a systematic basis over the period s that the related costs are expensed.
General A grant that relates to an asset is deducted from the cost of the relevant Property, plant and equipment assets are initially recognised at cost and asset, thereby reducing the depreciation charge over the useful life of subsequently treated under the cost model: at cost less accumulated the asset.
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Space segment assets Intangible assets comprise goodwill, trademarks, software, terminal development Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other and network access costs, spectrum rights, orbital slots, unallocated launch slots associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
Expenditure charged to and licences, customer relationships and intellectual property.
space segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestones, Intangible assets acquired separately are initially recognised at cost.
Intangible external consultancy costs and direct internal costs.
Internal costs, comprising assets acquired as part of a business combination are initially recognised primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly attributable at their fair values as determined at acquisition date.
After initial recognition, to the construction of an asset.
Progress payments are determined on intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any milestones achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation indices.
Deferred satellite payments represent the net present value of future Research and development costs payments dependent on the future performance of each satellite and are Research costs related to internally generated intangibles are expensed in recognised in space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational.
the period that the expenditure is incurred.
Depreciation on space segment assets is recognised over the life of the satellites from the date they become operational and are placed into Development costs are expensed when the costs are incurred unless it meets service.
The associated liability is stated at its net present value and included criteria for capitalisation under IAS 38.
Development costs are only capitalised within borrowings.
if the technical feasibility, availability of appropriate technical, financial and other resources and commercial viability of developing the asset for Assets in the course of construction subsequent use or sale have been demonstrated and the costs incurred can be These assets are carried at cost with no depreciation charged whilst in the measured reliably.
Capitalised development costs are amortised in the income course of construction.
The assets will be transferred to space segment assets statement on a straight-line basis over the period of expected future benefit.
and depreciated over the life of the satellites or services once they become operational and placed into service.
Amortisation Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line Capitalised borrowing costs basis over the useful life of the asset.
The amortisation period and method The Group incurs borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, are reviewed on an annual basis.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful construction or production of assets that necessarily take a substantial life, such as goodwill, are not amortised but reviewed annually for impairment.
period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.
Such borrowing costs are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
Capitalisation commences when IMPAIRMENT REVIEWS the Group begins to incur the borrowing costs and related expenditures for the Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment.
asset, and when it undertakes the activities that are necessary to prepare the Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for asset for its intended use or sale.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the substantially all of the activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended full carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Indicators of impairment may use or sale are complete.
include changes in technology and business performance.
An asset is tested Other fixed assets for impairment on an individual basis as far as possible to determine its Other fixed assets are initially recognised at cost and subsequently measured recoverable amount.
Where this is not possible, assets are grouped and at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
tested for impairment in a cash generating unit.
A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 127 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 127 An asset will be impaired if the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable PROVISIONS amount, which is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell the asset and the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal value in use.
The impairment loss will be recognised in the income statement.
or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
The expense relating to a provision is recognised in the income statement, except where the obligation is to dismantle or restore an item of property, Subsequent to an impairment loss, if indications exist that an assets plant or equipment, in which case the amount is capitalised to the cost recoverable amount might have increased, the recoverable amount will be of the asset.
The capitalised amount is subsequently depreciated to the reassessed and any impairment reversal recognised in the income statement.
income statement over the remaining useful life of the underlying asset.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount will not exceed the depreciated historical cost what the carrying Provisions are discounted to a present value at initial recognition where amount would have been had there been no initial impairment loss.
the effect of discounting is deemed to be material.
Discounted provisions will unwind over time using the amortised cost method with finance cost Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
recognised in the income statement.
Provision estimates are revised each reporting date and adjustments recognised in line with the provisions initial LEASES recognition either in the income statement or recognised against the cost Contracts which convey the right to control the use of an identified asset for a of the asset.
period of time in exchange for consideration are accounted for as leases by the Group.
At the commencement date, the Group, as lessee, recognises a rightAsset retirement obligations of-use asset and a lease liability.
The lease liability is measured at the present The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date, discounted using property, plant and equipment is recognised in the financial statements in the the rate implicit in the lease, unless such a rate is not readily determinable, period in which the liability is incurred.
Upon initial recognition of a liability for in which case the incremental borrowing rate is used.
The right-of use asset an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement cost is added comprises the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability, adjusted to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any to income over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Following the initial lease incentives received and any initial direct costs incurred by the Group.
recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the Lease term is determined as the non-cancellable period of a lease adjusted for liability is increased for the passage of time by applying an interest method any reasonably certain extension or termination option.
of allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost reflected in operating expenses.
After commencement date, the right-of use asset is depreciated on a straightline basis to the end of the lease term.
The lease liability is accounted for by Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made, and of undiscounted cash flows are recognised each period as an adjustment increasing the carrying amount to reflect the interest on the lease liability.
to the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation.
As lessor for operating leases, the Group recognises lease payments as ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES income.
The underlying asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its In addition to IFRS measures the Group uses a number of Alternative expected useful life.
Performance Measures APMs in order to provide readers with a better understanding of the underlying performance of the business, and to improve NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE comparability of our results for the period.
More detail on IFRS and APMs can Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale when their be found on page 165. carrying values will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through continued use.
This classification is subject to meeting the following criteria: 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT management is committed to a plan to sell and the asset is being actively BREXIT marketed for sale at a sales price reasonable in relation to its fair value The United Kingdom leaving the European Union on 29 March 2019 is not the asset is available for immediate sale expected to have a significant financial impact on the Group.
The majority of revenue, capital expenditure and long-term borrowings are denominated in US the sale is highly probable to be concluded within 12 months of classification Dollars reducing our exposure to a weakening Sterling.
Additional costs incurred as held for sale and from professional fees for legal advice and work permits for employees are it is unlikely that the plan to sell will be significantly changed or withdrawn expected to be limited.
For information pertaining to the potential operational impacts to the Group, refer to pages 52 to 58 for the Groups principal risks.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and associated liabilities to be disposed of together in a single transaction.
At the reporting date they are separately FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
The Groups operations and significant debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, When non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
depreciation and amortisation will cease and the assets are remeasured The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using forward Any resulting impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, exchange contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and to limit the except for assets treated under the revaluation model, where the adjustment impact of fluctuating interest rates by minimising the amount of floating rate would first decrease the revaluation reserve before any excess will be long-term borrowings.
recognised as an impairment loss in the income statement.
Any remainder in the revaluation reserve will be released to the income statement on The Board of Directors has delegated to the treasury department the the date of sale.
responsibility for setting and implementing the financial risk management policies applied by the Group.
The treasury department has an operating INVENTORIES manual that sets out specific guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, Inventories are stated at the lower of cost determined by the weighted interest rate risk and credit risk see note 32.
The Group does not hold or average cost method and net realisable value.
Allowances for obsolescence issue derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that inventory is obsolete.
128 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 128 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED A MARKET RISK At 31 December 2018, $257.5m 2017: $170.0m of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
No interest is charged on trade receivables until the i Foreign exchange risk receivables become overdue for payment.
Thereafter, interest may be charged The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is the US Dollar.
Apart from the at varying rates depending on the terms of the individual agreements.
deferred satellite liability, all of the Groups long-term borrowings are denominated in US Dollars, the majority of its revenue is earned in US Dollars The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended and the majority of capital expenditure is denominated in US Dollars, which to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and third-party are therefore not subject to risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency collection processes for overdue accounts.
The Group maintains provisions for rates of exchange.
potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing basis.
The provision for uncollectible trade receivables has increased to $28.4m as at 31 December However, the Group operates internationally, resulting in approximately 3% and 2018 2017: $12.5m.
16% of total revenue and total expenditure, respectively, being denominated in currencies other than the US Dollar.
Approximately 28% 2017: 27% of For 2018, no customer comprised greater than 10% of the Groups total the Groups operating costs are denominated in Pounds Sterling.
The Groups revenues 2017: no customer.
exposure therefore needs to be carefully managed to avoid variability in future D LIQUIDITY RISK cash flows and earnings caused by volatile foreign exchange rates.
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations As at 31 December 2018 it is estimated that a hypothetical 10% increase in the and financial liabilities.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining US Dollar Sterling year-end exchange rate US$1.27 1.00 to US$1.4 1.00 sufficient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through would have decreased the 2018 profit before tax by approximately $2.6m an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
Management believes that a 10% sensitivity rate provides The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in foreign actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets exchange rates.
ii Price risk The available liquidity of the Group as at 31 December is: The Group is not exposed to significant equity securities price risk or commodity price risk.
$ in millions Note 2018 2017 B INTEREST RATE RISK Cash and cash equivalents 17 143.2 144.9 The Groups income and operating cash flows are substantially independent 1 Available but undrawn borrowing facilities 20 750.2 500.5 of changes in market interest rates.
The Group has interest-bearing assets Total available liquidity 893.4 645.4 such as cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, and non-current other receivables however interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
1 Relates to the Senior Revolving Credit Facility see note 20 Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk: however, as at 31 December 2018, the Group has no borrowings issued The Directors believe the Groups liquidity position is more than sufficient to at variable.
The Senior Notes due 2022 and 2024, the Convertible Bonds meet its needs for the foreseeable future.
due 2023 and the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are all at fixed rates.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND C CREDIT RISK KEY JUDGEMENTS Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
A debt will be deemed The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires uncollectable and therefore written off based on one or more of the management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the following criteria: reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue Insolvency formal or just ceased trading and expenses during the reported period.
Debtor cannot be located ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Debt uneconomical to pursue The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the For any write-offs, a standard procedure is followed with authorisations circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements obtained in-line with the Groups framework.
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from Financial instruments that potentially subject the Group to a concentration other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The following key of credit risk consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, estimates have been made: trade receivables, other receivables, accrued income and derivative financial A TAXATION instruments.
The credit risk on liquid funds cash and cash equivalents and The calculation of the Groups uncertain tax provisions involves estimation in short-term deposits and derivative financial instruments is limited because respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until the counterparties are highly rated financial institutions.
resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, The maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December is: through a formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve.
The amounts recognised or disclosed are derived from the $ in millions Note 2018 2017 Groups best estimation.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the Cash and cash equivalents 17 143.2 144.9 outcome of these means eventual realisation could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash flows.
Short term deposits 145.7 342.0 In the event that all such enquiries were settled entirely in favour of the Trade receivables, other receivables authorities, the Group would incur a cash tax outflow of $110m, excluding and accrued income 32 337.7 275.3 interest, during 2019.
The quantum and timing of this cost remains uncertain Derivative financial instruments 32 0.3 1.5 but it is substantially provided for and the enquiries remain ongoing at this time.
Total credit risk 626.9 763.7 The Group anticipates an initial conclusion in respect of the most significant enquiry in 2019.
The Groups average age of trade receivables as at 31 December 2018 was approximately 79 days excluding Ligado and approximately 72 days including Ligado 2017: 57 days excluding Ligado and 52 days including Ligado.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 129 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 129 B REVENUE IN RESPECT OF THE LIGADO NETWORKS E PROXY BOARD ARRANGEMENT COOPERATION AGREEMENT The Group has made key judgements in determining the appropriateness In December 2007, Inmarsat and Ligado Networks formerly LightSquared LP, of consolidating Inmarsat Government Inc. Skyterra Canada Inc. and LightSquared Inc. entered into a Cooperation The U. S. Government element of Inmarsats Government business unit is Agreement for the efficient use of L-band spectrum over North America.
The managed through the U. S. trading entity, Inmarsat Government Inc. a whollyCooperation Agreement was segregated into phases and designed to enable owned subsidiary of the Group.
The business is managed through a Proxy and support the deployment of an ATC network by Ligado in North America.
agreement as required by the U. S. National Industrial Security Program In March 2016, Ligado Networks agreed to take the 30MHz option the 30MHz NISP.
A Proxy agreement is an instrument intended to mitigate the risk of Plan under Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement between the companies.
foreign ownership, control or influence when a foreign person owns, acquires In exchange for the deferral of some payments from Ligado to Inmarsat, the or merges with a U. S. entity that has a facility security clearance under the parties agreed to delay the transition to the 30MHz Plan, with Ligado providing NISP.
The Proxy agreement conveys the foreign owners voting rights to the Inmarsat enhanced spectrum usage rights for its satellite operations for a Proxy Holders, comprised of the Proxy board.
There are three Proxy holders minimum period of two years.
who are U. S. citizens cleared and approved by the U. S. Defence Security Service DSS.
The timing of the revenue recognition and related costs is dependent on when Ligado receive their FCC licence, which remains uncertain.
Key estimates relating The Proxy holders have a fiduciary duty, and agree, to perform their role in the to the determination of the transaction price have been made driven by the best interests of the Group including the legitimate economic interest, and expected contract term and payment profile.
in a manner consistent with the national security interests of the U. S. For the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group recognised $130.7m of The DSS requires Inmarsat Government Inc. to enter into a Proxy agreement revenue with $0.1m operating costs year ended 31 December 2017: $126.7m because it is indirectly owned by the Group and it has contracts with the and $2.0m respectively.
Department of Defence which contain certain classified information.
The Proxy agreement enables Inmarsat Government Inc. to participate in such contracts JUDGEMENTS with the U. S. Government despite being owned by a non-U.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the following judgements have been made, which have the most significant effect on the Under the Proxy agreement, the Proxy holders have the power to exercise amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: all privileges of share ownership of Inmarsat Government Inc.
In addition, as a result of the Proxy agreement, certain limitations are placed on the information C REVENUE IN RESPECT OF THE LIGADO NETWORKS which may be shared, and the interaction which may occur, between Inmarsat COOPERATION AGREEMENT Government Inc. and other Group companies.
At 31 December 2018, deferred income in respect of the Cooperation Agreement of $206.7m was recorded on the balance sheet.
Although the cash has been The Group maintains its involvement in Inmarsat Government Inc. s activities received, the timing of the recognition of this deferred income, together with any through normal business activity and liaison with the Chair of the Proxy Board.
related future costs and taxes, is dependent upon when Ligado receive their FCC Inmarsat Government Inc. s commercial and governance activity is included licence, which remains uncertain.
An accounting judgement has been made in in the business update provided in regular Executive reports to the Board.
assuming that there remains a future obligation.
During 2018, $0.1m was This activity is always subject to the confines of the Proxy regime to ensure recognised in relation to costs incurred on interference.
that it meets the requirement that Inmarsat Government Inc. must conduct its business affairs without direct external control or influence, and the At 31 December 2018, a receivable of $35.0m has been recorded on the balance requirements necessary to protect the U. S. national security interest.
sheet relating to the deferrals.
This was previously netted off within the deferred income, however this has been disclosed separately on the adoption of IFRS 15.
In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, an assessment The Group believe that this receivable is recoverable.
is required to determine the degree of control or influence the Group exercises and the form of any control to ensure that the financial statement treatment D CAPITALISATION OF SPACE SEGMENT ASSETS AND is appropriate.
On the basis of the Groups ability to affect the financial and ASSOCIATED BORROWING COSTS operating policies of the entity, we have concluded that the Group meets the The net book value of space segment assets is currently $2,231.5m 2017: requirements of IFRS 10 in respect of control over the entity and, therefore, $2,510.3m.
There have been additions of $0.6m in the year 2017: $174.9m.
consolidates the entity in the Groups consolidated accounts.
There have been The key judgements involved in the capitalisation of space segment assets no changes in circumstances which impact any of the key judgements made and associated borrowings costs are: by the Group.
whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IAS have been met F PRESENTATION OF CONVERTIBLE BOND whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation The Group holds the Convertible Bond as a non-current liability on the Balance of costs should cease and depreciation should commence and Sheet, reflecting the expected redemption date of 9 September 2023.
The bond is convertible from 20 October 2016 meaning a Bondholder could whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result theoretically convert their holding prior to the due date of 9 September 2023. capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease In the event that the share price remains significantly below the conversion price of the bonds $13.41, any bondholder who converts their Convertible Bond, rather than selling it on the market, would make a material loss.
Consequently, in practice, the Group does not believe that any material amounts of the Convertible Bond will be repaid in the next 12 months.
130 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 130 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker to allocate resources and assess the performance of the Group.
The Groups operating segments are aligned to five market-facing business units, being: Maritime, focusing on worldwide commercial maritime services U. S. Government, focusing on U. S. civil and military government services Global Government, focusing on worldwide civil and military government services Aviation, focusing on commercial, business and general aviation services Enterprise, focusing on worldwide energy, industry, media, carriers, and M2M services Details of these business units are given on pages 20 to 37.
These five business units are supported by Central Services which include satellite operations and backbone infrastructure, corporate administrative costs, and any income that is not directly attributable to a business unit such as Ligado Networks.
The Group has aggregated the U. S. Government and Global Government operating segments into one reporting segment as the segments have a similar type of customer for the products and services and meet the criteria for aggregation under IFRS.
Therefore, the Groups reportable segments are Maritime, Government, Aviation, Enterprise, and Central Services.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Segment results are assessed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker at the EBITDA level without the allocation of central costs, depreciation and amortisation, net financing costs and taxation.
SEGMENT RESULTS 2018 Central $ in millions Maritime Government Aviation Enterprise Services Total Revenue 552.8 381.0 256.1 130.0 14.6 1,334.5 Ligado revenue 130.7 130.7 Total revenue 552.8 381.0 256.1 130.0 145.3 1,465.2 Net operating costs 123.8 110.8 124.2 47.7 288.6 695.1 EBITDA 429.0 270.2 131.9 82.3 143.3 770.1 Depreciation and amortisation 468.3 1 Other 13.1 Operating profit 288.7 Net financing cost 120.8 Profit before tax 167.9 Taxation 42.9 Profit for the year 125.0 Cash capital expenditure 54.4 5.0 34.8 496.5 590.7 Financing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 43.7 2 Cash flow timing 61.5 Total capital expenditure 572.9 At 31 December 2018 $ in millions Total Timing of revenue recognition At a point in time 262.4 Over time 1,202.8 Total 1,465.2 1 Other relates to the share of profit from associates $3.9m, loss on disposal of assets $2.5m and impairment of assets $14.5m 2 Cash flow timing represents the difference between accrued capex and the actual cash flows Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 131 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 131 2017 restated Central $ in millions Maritime Government Aviation Enterprise Services Total Revenue 567.3 366.7 181.8 132.6 14.5 1,262.9 Ligado revenue 128.8 128.8 Total revenue 567.3 366.7 181.8 132.6 143.3 1,391.7 Net operating costs 120.3 101.5 77.9 40.7 312.0 652.4 EBITDA 447.0 265.2 103.9 91.9 168.7 739.3 Depreciation and amortisation 411.8 1 Other 3.3 Operating profit 324.2 Net financing cost 90.4 Profit before tax 233.8 Taxation 48.8 Profit for the year 185.0 Cash capital expenditure 45.9 9.9 143.8 414.5 614.1 Financing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 40.2 2 Cash flow timing 36.6 Total capital expenditure 690.9 At 31 December 2017 $ in millions Total Timing of revenue recognition At a point in time 227.7 Over time 1,164.0 Total 1,391.7 1 Other relates to the share of profit from associates $4.0m and loss on disposal of assets $7.3m 2 Cash flow timing represents the difference between accrued capex and the actual cash flows SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS BY GEOGRAPHY The Groups operations are located in the geographical regions listed below.
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the customer.
For wholesale customers, this is the distribution partner who receives the invoice for the service, and for retail customers this is the billing address of the customer for whom the service is provided.
Assets and capital expenditure are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
2018 2017 restated Non-current Non-current segment segment $ in millions Revenue assets Revenue assets United Kingdom 71.4 1,044.1 78.9 860.1 Rest of Europe 444.7 1,059.2 420.2 861.9 North America 594.0 121.1 561.5 117.4 Asia and Pacific 257.4 114.3 246.1 116.8 Rest of the world 97.7 0.3 85.0 0.1 1 Unallocated 1,899.6 2,123.2 1,465.2 4,238.6 1,391.7 4,079.5 1 Unallocated items relate to satellites which are in orbit 132 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 132 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED REMAINING PERFORMANCE OBLIGATIONS The table below shows the remaining revenue to be derived from unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations under non-cancellable contracts with customers at the end of the year.
At 31 December 2018 $ in millions Total Within one year 509.8 Between two to five years 926.0 Greater than five years 254.1 1,689.9 All other contracts are for periods of one year or less or are billed based on time incurred.
As permitted under IFRS 15, the transaction price allocated to these unsatisfied contracts is not disclosed.
As permitted under the transitional provisions in IFRS 15, the transaction price allocated to partially unsatisfied performance obligations as of 31 December 2017 is not disclosed.
OPERATING PROFIT Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group.
Network and satellite operation costs comprise costs to third parties for network service contracts and services.
A breakdown of employee benefit costs is given in note 7.
Operating profit is stated after charging the following items: $ in millions Note 2018 2017 restated Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 370.1 328.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 86.8 83.2 Depreciation of right-of-use assets 15 11.4 Restructuring costs 19.9 Loss on disposal of assets 2.5 7.3 1 Impairment 14.5 Operating lease rentals: Land and buildings 13.8 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 115.3 62.3 Write downs of inventories recognised as an expense 19 2.1 5.1 Research costs expensed 8.9 8.0 Remuneration payable to the Groups auditor Deloitte LLP and its associates in the year is analysed below: $ in millions 2018 2017 Audit fees: Annual audit of the Company 0.2 0.2 Annual audit of subsidiary companies 0.9 0.9 Total audit fees 1.1 1.1 2 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total audit and audit-related fees 1.2 1.2 Other services 0.3 Total non-audit fees 0.3 Total auditors remuneration 1.5 1.2 1 Relates to $1.2m and $13.3m of tangible and intangible asset impairments respectively 2 Fees paid for audit-related assurance services refer to the half year and quarterly reviews of the Groups interim financial statements 7.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS $ in millions Note 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 255.5 247.8 Social security costs 25.0 20.6 Share-based payments including employers national insurance contribution 8.2 16.2 Defined contribution pension plan costs 10.9 6.0 1 Defined benefit pension plan costs 29 1.4 2.0 1 Post-employment benefits costs 29 0.4 0.4 Restructuring charge 19.9 Total employee benefit costs 301.4 312.9 1 Defined benefit pension plan costs and post-employment benefits costs include current service cost and gain on curtailment for 2017 see note 29 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 133 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 133 EMPLOYEE NUMBERS The average monthly number of employees including the Executive Directors employed during the year: 2018 2017 By activity: Operations 851 825 Sales and marketing 334 394 Development and engineering 237 250 Administration 403 385 1,825 1,854 By segment: Maritime 103 107 Government 184 199 Enterprise 63 65 Aviation 197 171 Central Services 1,278 1,312 1,825 1,854 The employee headcount numbers presented above refer to permanent full time and part time employees and exclude contractors and temporary staff.
Employee benefit costs of $24.8m 2017: $30.1m relating to contractors and temporary staff have been included in the cost table above.
KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION The Groups Executive and Non-Executive Directors are the key management personnel of the business.
Details of the total amounts earned during the year are as follows: $ in millions 2018 2017 Short-term benefits 4.1 3.8 1 Share-based payments 4.4 4.8 8.5 8.6 1 Includes employers national insurance or other social security contributions The Remuneration report contains full disclosure of Directors remuneration on pages 81 to 101.
In both the current and prior year, no Director has been a member of the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
NET FINANCING COSTS $ in millions 2018 2017 restated Bank interest receivable and other interest 8.2 7.8 Total financing income 8.2 7.8 Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 92.8 93.9 Interest on Convertible Bonds 38.4 37.5 Amortisation of debt issue costs 13.2 7.9 Amortisation of discount on Senior Notes due 2022 1.0 1.0 Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 0.2 0.4 Net interest on the net defined benefit asset and post-employment liability 0.3 2.0 Interest on lease obligations 2.9 Other interest 0.7 3.4 Financing costs 149.5 146.1 Less: Amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 43.7 40.2 Financing costs excluding derivative adjustments 105.8 105.9 1 Change in fair value of the derivative liability component of the Convertible Bonds 23.2 7.7 Net financing cost 120.8 90.4 1 For further details of the derivative liability component of the Convertible Bonds due 2023 please refer to note 20 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditures on such assets.
The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 7.4% 2017: 8.5%.
134 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 134 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
TAXATION The tax charge for the year recognised in the income statement: $ in millions 2018 2017 restated Current tax: Current year 49.5 21.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.3 4.5 Total current tax 50.8 17.3 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 14.8 14.6 Adjustments due to reduction in corporation tax rates 0.2 9.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6.7 7.8 Total deferred tax 7.9 31.5 Total taxation charge 42.9 48.8 The effective tax rate is 25.5% 2017: 20.9% and is reconciled below: $ in millions 2018 2017 restated Profit before tax 167.9 233.8 Income tax at 19.0% 2017: 19.25% 31.9 45.0 Differences in overseas tax rates 4.4 6.3 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 8.0 3.3 Adjustments due to reduction in the corporation tax rate 0.2 9.1 Impact of UK patent box regime 1.7 3.2 Impact of change in fair value of derivative liability component of Convertible Bond 4.4 1.5 Other non-deductible expenses non-taxable income 4.5 2.4 Total taxation charge 42.9 48.8 Tax credited directly to equity: $ in millions 2018 2017 Deferred tax credit charge on share-based payments 1.0 0.2 Deferred tax credit charge on pensions 0.3 Total tax credited directly to equity 1.3 0.2 Tax charged credit directly to other comprehensive income: $ in millions 2018 2017 Deferred tax charged credit on remeasurement of defined benefit asset and post-employment benefits 3.1 2.3 Total tax charged credited directly to other comprehensive income 3.1 2.3 11.
NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAIN LOSS $ in millions Note 2018 2017 Defined benefit plan and post-employment benefits 29 0.2 1.5 Other operating income 1.9 0.3 Total foreign exchange gain loss 1.7 1.2 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 135 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 135 12.
DIVIDENDS During 2018, the 2018 interim dividend of $36.9m 8 cents per ordinary share and the 2017 final dividend of $55.0m 12 cents per ordinary share were paid to the Companys shareholders.
For the 2018 interim dividend, the Group offered a scrip dividend election allowing shareholders to take their cash dividend entitlement in Inmarsat shares.
This option was taken up by shareholders holding approximately 84.9m shares 2017 interim dividend: 63.3m shares, representing 18.4% 2017 interim dividend: 13.9% of our issued share capital.
The scrip amounted to 1,044,660 new shares 2017 interim dividend: 1,617,973 new shares and 0.23% 2017 interim dividend: 0.35% of the issued share capital, which represented a $6.8m 2017 interim dividend: $13.7m cash dividend savings.
These shares were issued and made available for trading on 19 October 2018 2017 interim dividend: 20 October 2017.
For the 2017 final dividend, the Group offered a scrip dividend election allowing shareholders to take their cash dividend entitlement in Inmarsat shares.
This option was taken up by shareholders holding approximately 129.8m shares, representing 28.3% of our issued share capital.
The scrip amounted to 3,015,936 new shares and 0.66% of the issued share capital, which represented a $15.6m cash dividend savings.
These shares were issued and made available for trading on 26 May 2018.
During 2017, the 2017 interim dividend of $98.6m 21.62 cents per ordinary share and the 2016 final dividend of $151.2m 33.37 cents per ordinary share were paid to the Companys shareholders.
The Inmarsat plc Board of Directors intends to recommend a final dividend of 12 cents per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 to be paid on 30 May 2019 to ordinary shareholders on the share register at the close of business on 23 April 2019.
$ in cents 2018 2017 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 8.00 21.62 Final dividend per ordinary share 12.00 12.00 Total dividend per ordinary share 20.00 33.62 13.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Service equipment, fixtures and Assets in the Freehold land fittings Space course of 2 $ in millions and buildings restated segment construction Total Cost: 1 January 2017 restated 20.6 359.9 3,652.6 861.8 4,894.9 Additions 88.5 174.9 351.6 615.0 Disposals 226.7 99.9 0.9 327.5 1 Transfers from assets in the course of construction and reclassifications 64.2 565.6 629.8 31 December 2017 restated 20.6 285.9 4,293.2 582.7 5,182.4 Additions 24.4 0.6 449.6 474.6 Disposals 84.8 160.4 0.4 245.6 1 Transfers from assets in the course of construction and reclassifications 96.2 20.9 117.1 31 December 2018 20.6 321.7 4,154.3 914.8 5,411.4 Accumulated depreciation: 1 January 2017 10.5 289.1 1,615.4 1,915.0 Charge for the year 0.5 60.7 267.4 328.6 Disposals 216.8 99.9 316.7 31 December 2017 restated 11.0 133.0 1,782.9 1,926.9 Charge for the year 0.4 69.6 300.1 370.1 Impairment 1.2 1.2 Disposals 79.3 160.2 239.5 31 December 2018 11.4 123.3 1,922.8 1.2 2,058.7 Net book amount at 31 December 2017 9.6 152.9 2,510.3 582.7 3,255.5 Net book amount at 31 December 2018 9.2 198.4 2,231.5 913.6 3,352.7 1 Reclassifications relate to movements between tangible and intangible asset categories throughout the year to align accounting policies across the Group 2.
The numbers restated have been discussed in note 2 136 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 136 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Space segment assets: Satellites 1315 years Other space segment, including ground infrastructure 512 years Fixtures and fittings, and services-related equipment 315 years Buildings 50 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
At 31 December 2018 and 2017, the Group was carrying certain freehold land and buildings with a net book value of $9.2m 2017: $9.6m.
Had they been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31 December 2018 would have been $32.9m 2017: $30.4m.
Market valuation is based on the Directors best estimates.
In 2018 the Group received government grants in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
The grants have been deducted from the cost of the relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount.
Government grants received in 2018 were $2.5m 2017: $5.7m.
Trademarks are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are between seven and 20 years.
Software includes the Groups billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software, which are being amortised on a straightline basis over its estimated useful life of three to eight years.
The Group capitalises costs associated with the development and enhancement of user terminals and associated network access costs as intangible assets and amortises these over the estimated sales life of the related services, which range from five to ten years.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with acquisitions are being amortised over the expected period of benefit of between 12 and 14 years, using the straight-line method.
Other consists of orbital slots, licences, spectrum rights and unallocated launch slots.
Orbital slots and licences relate to the Groups satellite programmes, and each individual asset is reviewed to determine whether it has a finite or indefinite useful life.
Orbital slots are amortised over the useful life of the satellite occupying them.
Amortisation of the GX programme finite life assets commenced when the Inmarsat-5 satellites went operational in December 2015.
Unallocated launch slots are not amortised until allocated to a satellite asset where they are re-classed to Property, Plant and Equipment and depreciated in-line with Group policy discussed in note 2.
As at December 2018, the Group has no indefinite useful life intangible assets other than Goodwill.
Government grants received in 2018 were $nil 2017: $0.1m.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 137 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 137 ANNUAL IMPAIRMENT REVIEW: GOODWILL Impairment reviews of goodwill are performed at the level of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs.
For the Group, these are considered to be the Maritime, Enterprise, Aviation, U. S. Government and Global Government business units.
The recoverable amount of each CGU has been determined based on value in use calculations.
The key assumptions used by management in these calculations are the cash flow projections, long-term growth rates and discount rates for each CGU.
The impairment review conducted annually has identified sufficient headroom in the recoverable value of each CGU above their carrying value.
A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken by changing key assumptions used for each CGU.
Based on this sensitivity analysis, no reasonably possible change in the assumptions resulted in the recoverable amount of the CGUs being reduced to their carrying value.
We do not anticipate any changes over the next 12 months that would result in the recoverable amount of the CGUs being reduced to their carrying value.
Key assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount of the CGUs were as follows: $ in millions Allocated goodwill Pre-tax discount rate Long-term growth rate Maritime 215.5 8.5% 2.0% Enterprise 54.8 8.5% 2.0% Aviation 46.4 8.5% 2.0% U. S. Government 50.6 8.5% 2.0% Global Government 54.8 8.5% 2.0% Total Group 422.1 Cash flow projections The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on the value in use, which is determined using cash flow projections derived from the most recent financial budgets and forecasts approved by management covering a five-year period.
The short and medium-term cash flows reflect managements expectations of future outcomes taking into account past experience, adjusted for anticipated growth from both existing and new business in line with our strategic plans for each segment of our business.
The cash flows also take into consideration our assessment of the potential impact of external economic factors.
Long-term growth rates A long-term growth rate has been applied to extrapolate the cash flows into perpetuity.
The growth rate has been determined using long-term industry growth rates and managements conservative expectation of future growth.
The long-term growth rates are consistent across each of the CGUs given the similarities in exposure to economic and competitive conditions.
Discount rates The discount rates reflect the time value of money and are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for the risk associated with the CGUs.
The risk premium, when compared with the Group discount rate, was consistent across each of the CGUs given the similarities in exposure to economic and competitive conditions.
LEASES RIGHT OF USE ASSETS The right-of-use assets for the Groups property and vehicle leases are presented in the table below.
$ in millions Property Vehicles Total Net carrying amount: 1 January 2018 75.2 0.5 75.7 Additions and changes in terms 1.8 0.3 1.5 Impairment 0.4 0.4 Charge for the year 11.0 0.4 11.4 31 December 2018 62.0 0.4 62.4 One property lease and two vehicle leases expired in the current financial year.
The expired contracts were replaced by new leases for identical underlying assets.
In total there were additions to right-of-use assets of $1.8m in 2018.
The Group does not hold options to purchase any leased assets for a nominal amount at the end of the lease term.
The Group expenses short-term leases and low-value assets as incurred which is in accordance with the recognition exemption in IFRS 16.
Expenses for short-term leases and low-value assets were less than $0.1m in 2018.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group is committed to less than $0.1m of short-term leases and low-value assets.
The Group received less than $0.1m in relation to income from the subleasing of right-of-use assets.
LEASE LIABILITIES Lease liabilities are calculated at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date.
The Groups lease liabilities as of 31 December 2018 comprise the transition of existing contracts, as well as contracts entered into during the financial year 2018.
The table below presents the split of these liabilities by category: $ in millions Property Vehicles Total Lease liability non-current 59.5 0.1 59.6 Lease liability current 10.1 0.3 10.4 31 December 2018 69.6 0.4 70.0 138 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 138 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The average lease term of the Groups property and vehicle leases is 3.3 and 1.2 years respectively.
The maturity profile of the Groups leases is shown in the table below.
At 31 December 2018 $ in millions Property Vehicles Total Within one year 10.1 0.3 10.4 Between two to five years 40.8 0.1 40.9 Greater than five years 18.7 18.7 69.6 0.4 70.0 The table below reconciles the difference between the presentation of operating leases under IAS 17 and IFRS 16 as at 31 December 2017.
At 31 December 2017 Other unrecognised Lease maturity IFRS 16 Lease maturity contractual 1 2 $ in millions under IAS 17 Differences under IFRS 16 commitments Within one year 12.7 0.4 13.1 6.9 Within two to five years 46.6 6.7 39.9 40.3 After five years 29.3 4.9 34.2 0.4 88.6 1.4 87.2 47.6 1 IFRS 16 differences are caused by the discounting of cash flows, as well as cash flows for renewal periods being included in lease liability under the new standard 2 Other unrecognised contractual commitments relate to the Groups network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
Under IFRS 16, these do not constitute identified assets and do not meet the definition of a lease.
These contracts continue to be expensed through the income statement For the year ended 31 December 2018, the weighted average discount rate applied was 3.7%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The total cash flow relating to all lease obligations in 2018 was $12.3m with lease obligations denominated in various currencies.
Total lease interest paid was $2.8m.
The Group does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities.
The Groups obligations are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets for such leases.
INVESTMENTS At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2018 2017 Interest in associates 17.7 15.1 Other investments 1.1 1.1 Total investments 18.8 16.2 Interest in associates represents the Groups investments which have been treated as associates and have all been accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Individually, all of the investments in associates are deemed to be immaterial and as a result the associates assets, liabilities, revenues and profits have not been presented.
Other investments represent the Groups 0.6% investment in Actility S. A. which was made on 5 April 2017 and is accounted for as fair value through profit and loss.
Cash dividends received from the associates for the year ended 31 December 2018 total $1.3m 2017: $2.1m.
The Groups aggregate share of its associates profits for the year is $3.9m 2017: $4.0m and has been recognised in the income statement.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and for the purposes of the cash flow statement also includes bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2018 2017 Cash at bank and in hand 143.2 109.9 Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 35 Cash and cash equivalents 143.2 144.9 At 31 December 2018, the Group has $145.7m of cash held in short-term deposits with an original maturity of between three and 12 months 2017: $342.0m.
This amount is presented separately within current assets in the balance sheet.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 139 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 139 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions Note 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 143.2 144.9 Bank overdrafts 20 0.3 Net cash and cash equivalents 143.2 144.6 18.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 $ in millions restated Current: Trade receivables 285.0 222.8 Other receivables 34.9 25.4 Accrued income 13.6 52.7 Prepayments 25.2 30.7 Total trade and other receivables 358.7 331.6 Non-current: Prepayments and accrued income 0.6 Defined benefit pension asset 30.9 18.1 Other receivables 4.3 Total other receivables 35.2 17.5 The Group applies the simplified approach under IFRS 9 for the impairment of receivables and contract assets.
A provisioning matrix based on internal debtor credit ratings has been used in order to calculate the lifetime loss allowances for each grouping.
Debtors have been grouped based on ageing and each debtors internal credit rating.
This rating is a measure from A to E with E being the highest risk of default and considers the debtors financial strength, history and magnitude of past defaults, personal credit history with the Group and the associated level of sovereign and market risk.
The information used in assigning ratings is both historical and forward looking as regular contact with debtors is maintained to understand if there is any additional risk forecast.
Specific allowances are made to reflect any additional risk identified.
The table below presents the lifetime expected credit losses for trade receivables within each debtor category.
No loss allowance has been recognised for other receivables and accrued income.
$ in millions Internal rating A Internal rating B Internal rating C Internal rating D E 2018 Total 1 Carrying value of trade receivables gross 66.4 149.9 116.6 1.7 334.6 Lifetime ECL 0.7 3.2 6.4 1.7 12.0 Specific Allowances 16.4 16.4 Group Loss Allowance 0.7 3.2 22.8 1.7 28.4 1 This is presented gross of credit note allowances of $21.2m The Groups trade and other receivables are stated after impairments.
Movements during the year were as follows: $ in millions 2018 2017 At 1 January 12.5 13.7 Charged in the year 24.5 9.7 Utilised in the year 2.2 4.2 Released in the year 6.4 6.7 1 At 31 December 28.4 12.5 1 The maturity of the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables for the year ended 31 December 2018 is $4.2m current, $5.0m between one and 30 days overdue, $8.0m between 31 and 120 days overdue and $11.2m over 120 days overdue 2017: $0.9m between one and 30 days overdue, $4.8m between 31 and 120 days overdue and $6.8m over 120 days overdue The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to approximate to their fair value.
140 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 140 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19.
INVENTORIES At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2018 2017 Finished goods 50.0 33.3 Work in progress 0.7 0.6 Total inventories 50.7 33.9 The Groups inventories are stated after allowances for obsolescence.
Movements in the allowance during the year were as follows: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2018 2017 At 1 January 11.6 12.8 Charged to the allowance in respect of the current year 6.2 3.9 Released in the year 2.1 5.1 At 31 December 15.7 11.6 20.
The $700.0m facility signed in 2011 was available to be drawn down for four years and is now repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further 7.5 years.
This facility will mature in 2023.
Drawings under this facility incur interest at a fixed rate of 3.11% for the life of the loan.
The $185.9m facility signed in 2014 was available for two years and is now repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further five years and will mature in 2021.
Drawings under this facility incur interest at a fixed rate of 1.96% for the life of the loan.
SENIOR NOTES DUE 2022 AND 2024 On 4 June 2014, the Group issued $1.0bn of 4.875% Senior Notes due 15 May 2022.
The aggregate gross proceeds were $992.1m, net of $7.9m issuance discount.
On 22 September 2016, the Group issued $400.0m of 6.5% Senior Notes due 1 October 2024.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 141 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 141 SENIOR REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY On 16 July 2018, the Group signed a new five-year $750.2m revolving credit facility Senior Revolving Credit Facility to replace the previous $500m facility, on substantially the same terms.
Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to the applicable USD LIBOR or, in relation to any loan in euro, EURIBOR, plus a margin of between 0.7% and 2.0% determined by reference to the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
At 31 December 2018, there were no drawings under the Senior Revolving Credit Facility.
CONVERTIBLE BONDS On 9 September 2016, the Group issued $650m of 3.875% Convertible Bonds due 9 September 2023.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have a 3.875% pa coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 3.681%.
The bond is a net share settled instrument, meaning upon conversion the Group will repay the principal of $650m in cash and satisfy the remaining conversion value in ordinary shares if the market value of the Companys shares at settlement date exceeds the conversion price of $13.41 and the option is exercised by the Bondholder.
The Bond is convertible from 20 October 2016 and there is a call option after 2 October 2021 based on conditions set out within the Bond agreement.
In the event of a change of control in ownership of the Group, the conversion price will be adjusted from $13.41 to the undisturbed share price prior to the offer.
Upon issuance, the instrument was bifurcated between a cash debt component and a derivative liability component, being $545.5m and $104.5m respectively.
$ in millions At inception Fair value of Convertible Bonds issued 650.0 Cost of issue 8.1 Net proceeds 641.9 Derivative liability component 104.5 Debt liability component net of issue costs 537.4 The debt component meets the definition of net borrowings and over the term of the bond will accrete up to the principal value of $650.0m with the cost of that accretion recognised in net financing costs.
$ in millions 2018 2017 Debt liability component at date of issue net of issue costs 537.4 537.4 Cumulative amortisation of debt issue costs to 31 December 2.7 1.5 Cumulative interest charged to 31 December 87.5 49.1 Cumulative coupon interest to 31 December 58.2 33.0 Debt liability component at 31 December 569.4 555.0 The derivative liability represents the value of the conversion rights, call option and other embedded features associated with the instrument and is accounted for at fair value through profit and loss.
It is excluded from net borrowings with the mark-to-market movements recognised in net financing costs as this represents the movement in fair value of the derivative component of the bond.
$ in millions 2018 2017 Fair value of debt host liability component at 31 December 545.8 561.6 Fair value of derivative liability component at 31 December 148.8 125.7 Fair value of Convertible Bond at 31 December 694.6 687.3 EFFECTIVE INTEREST RATE The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 6.8% to the liability component.
The total interest charge is split between the coupon interest charge of $58.2m and accreted interest of $29.3m, with both charges recognised in net financing costs in the income statement.
The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in March and September with the liability recognised in accrued interest note 20.
Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in March and September with the liability recognised in borrowings.
The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior Notes, Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility to approximate to their fair value see note 31.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows: Effective interest rate % 2018 2017 Bank overdrafts 7.5% 6.5% Senior Notes due 2022 5.1% 4.9% Senior Notes due 2024 6.7% 6.5% Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility 4.4% 3.1% Ex-Im Bank 2014 Facility 3.7% 3.6% Deferred satellite payments 1.7% 3.0% Convertible Bonds due 2023 6.8% 6.8% 142 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 142 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Reconciliation of movements in liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities: At 31 Drawdowns Arrangement At December and Interest cost Movement in Other cash 31 December 1 $ in millions 2016 repayments Cash flows Transfers expense amortisation Fair Value movements 2017 Short-term borrowings 103.8 80.8 3.1 105.1 3.2 2.6 125.6 Long-term borrowings 1,906.5 78.4 92.0 105.1 90.7 6.4 1,884.9 2 Convertible Bond 674.9 25.1 37.5 1.1 7.7 680.7 Total liabilities from financing activities 2,685.2 2.4 120.2 131.4 7.5 7.7 2.6 2,691.2 At 31 Drawdowns Arrangement At 31 December and Interest cost Movement in Other cash December 1 $ in millions 2017 repayments Cash flows Transfers expense amortisation Fair Value movements 2018 Short-term borrowings 125.6 122.2 3.5 122.2 3.4 2.3 123.2 Long-term borrowings 1,884.9 87.6 122.2 87.1 11.3 0.6 1,772.9 2 Convertible Bond 680.7 25.3 38.4 1.2 23.2 718.2 Total liabilities from financing activities 2,691.2 122.2 116.4 128.9 12.5 23.2 2.9 2,614.3 1 Transfers comprise debt maturing from long-term to short-term borrowings 2 Includes derivative liability component 21.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES At 31 December At 2017 31 December $ in millions 2018 restated Current: Trade payables 134.6 210.5 Other taxation and social security payables 6.3 6.2 Other payables 5.1 4.5 Accruals 95.1 117.4 1 Deferred income 304.3 295.8 Total trade and other payables 545.4 634.4 Non-current: Other payables 2.5 7.5 Defined benefit pension and post-employment liability 11.4 17.5 Total other payables 13.9 25.0 1 The deferred income balance includes $206.7m 2017: $206.8m relating to payments received from Ligado Networks.
During the current financial year, $0.1m 2017: $2.0m of these payments were released to the income statement The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair value.
DEFERRED INCOME Deferred income represents obligations to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the entity has received consideration and is therefore considered a contract liability.
The group has recognised the following movements in deferred income throughout the year $ in millions 2018 2017 At January 295.8 285.7 Contract liability raised in the year 297.8 289.6 Contract liability utilised in the year 289.3 279.5 At December 304.3 295.8 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 143 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 143 22.
PROVISIONS Movements in the current portion of the Groups provisions were as follows: Current Non-current $ in millions provisions provisions Total At 1 January 2017 1.9 2.8 4.7 Charged in respect of current year 21.8 6.9 28.7 Utilised in current year 7.5 7.5 At 31 December 2017 16.2 9.7 25.9 Charged in respect of current year 10.1 2.0 12.1 Utilised in current year 12.0 0.6 12.6 At 31 December 2018 14.3 11.1 25.4 The Groups current provisions mainly consist of a $7.4m 2017: nil contract obligation and a $5.1m 2017: $16.0m restructuring provision.
The associated cash flows in respect of both provisions outstanding at 31 December 2018 are expected to occur within one year.
CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION The current tax asset of $4.6m and current tax liability of $168.5m 2017: $13.8m and $130.2m, respectively, represent the tax payable in respect of current and prior periods less amounts paid.
RECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 for the year are shown below: 1 At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 restated $ in millions Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 35.1 222.8 187.7 25.8 230.9 205.1 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 44.2 44.2 27.8 27.8 Other 9.9 0.9 9.0 11.4 2.5 8.9 Pension and post-employment benefits 3.6 3.6 0.2 1.1 0.9 Share options 3.8 3.8 1.5 1.5 Tax losses 25.8 25.8 20.4 20.4 Net deferred tax liabilities 74.6 271.5 196.9 59.3 262.3 203.0 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The value of deferred income tax assets and liabilities included in the net deferred income tax balance is shown below: At At 31 December 31 December 1 $ in millions 2018 2017 restated Deferred tax assets 52.5 35.4 Deferred tax liabilities 249.4 238.4 Net deferred tax liabilities 196.9 203.0 1 Comparatives have been restated as a result of initial application of IFRS 15 and the change in accounting policy for unallocated launch slots discussed in note 2 144 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 144 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Movement in temporary differences during the year: Recognised At in other At 1 January Recognised Recognised comprehensive 31 December $ in millions 2018 in income in equity income 2018 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 205.1 17.4 187.7 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 27.8 16.4 44.2 Other 8.9 0.1 9.0 Pension and post-employment benefits 0.9 0.1 0.3 3.1 3.6 Share-based payments 1.5 1.3 1.0 3.8 Tax losses 20.4 5.4 25.8 Total 203.0 7.9 1.3 3.1 196.9 Recognised At in other At 1 January Recognised Recognised comprehensive 31 December $ in millions 2017 in income in equity income 2017 restated Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 165.7 39.4 205.1 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 33.7 5.9 27.8 Other 9.2 0.3 8.9 Pension and post-employment benefits 2.0 0.6 2.3 0.9 Share-based payments 3.8 2.1 0.2 1.5 Tax losses 15.4 5.0 20.4 Total 169.0 31.5 0.2 2.3 203.0 Total unprovided deferred tax assets: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2018 2017 Unused income tax losses 3.3 2.4 Unused capital losses 17.7 23.0 Total 21.0 25.4 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent there is probable utilisation of the underlying temporary difference using existing tax laws and forecasts of future taxable profits based on Board-approved business plan forecasts.
Unprovided deferred tax assets in respect of unused income tax losses of $13.2m 2017: $9.1m include $6.9m of losses that will expire if not used within 5 years, $1.4m of losses that will expire if not used within 20 years and $4.8m of losses with no expiry date.
The unused capital losses of $104.1m 2017: $121.0m have no expiry date.
Overseas dividends received are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes.
The unrecognised gross temporary difference in respect of the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is $nil 2017: $nil, resulting in a deferred tax liability of $nil 2017: $nil.
The unrecognised gross temporary difference in respect of the investments in associates is $1.7m 2017: $1.4m, resulting in an unrecognised deferred tax liability of $0.5m 2017: $0.4m.
The Budget announced by the Chancellor on 16 March 2016 included changes to the main rates of corporation tax for UK companies.
The standard rate of corporation tax reduced to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, and there will be a further reduction to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated taking account of the forecast impact of the reduction of the corporation tax rate from 20% to the substantively enacted rate of 17%.
On 22 December 2017 the US President signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which included changes to the Federal tax rate.
The Federal tax rate reduced from 35% to 21% with effect from 1 January 2018.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated taking account of this reduction of the Federal tax rate.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 145 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 145 24.
RECONCILIATION OF CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from operations: $ in millions 2018 2017 restated Profit for the year 125.0 185.0 Adjustments for: Taxation charge 42.9 48.8 Financing costs 105.8 105.9 Financing income 8.2 7.8 Change in fair value of derivative 23.2 7.7 Operating profit 288.7 324.2 Depreciation and amortisation 468.3 411.8 Impairment loss 14.5 Loss on disposal of assets 2.5 7.3 Share of profit of associates 3.9 4.0 EBITDA 770.1 739.3 Dividends received from associates 1.3 2.1 Non-cash employee benefit costs 9.8 16.2 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 6.2 1.5 Changes in net working capital: 1 Increase in restricted cash 0.3 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 56.1 38.3 Decrease Increase in inventories 16.8 0.4 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 10.8 54.0 Increase in provisions 0.2 14.6 Cash generated from operations 713.4 789.8 1 At 31 December 2018, the Group had $2.5m 2017: $2.8m of restricted cash on the balance sheet, the majority of which are funds held in escrow in relation to the disposal of SkyWave 25.
SHARE CAPITAL At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2018 2017 Authorised: 1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2017: 1,166,610,560 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 462,617,429 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2017: 457,659,212 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 During the year ended 31 December 2018, a total of 897,621 2017: 1,005,403 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company under its employee share schemes.
In addition, 3,015,936 ordinary shares and 1,044,660 ordinary shares 2017: 2,973.025 and 1,617,973 of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company as part of the final 2017 and interim 2018 scrip dividend offering respectively.
No shares were repurchased during 2018 or 2017.
146 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 146 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTIONS AND AWARDS The Group operates a number of share plans used to award options and shares to Directors and employees as part of their remuneration packages.
In 2014, the Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan ESP was approved by shareholders and replaced the previous Executive Share Plans.
Share awards since May 2014 have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules.
Under the ESP, the Company can grant Bonus Share Awards BSA and Performance Share Awards PSA.
The costs of these awards are recognised in the income statement see note 7 based on the fair value of the awards on the grant date.
Further information on how these are calculated can be found on the next page and under Employee benefits in the principal accounting policies on page 125.
INMARSAT EMPLOYEES SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN TRUST Under the legacy Staff Value Participation Plan the 2004 Plan, shares were transferred to the Inmarsat Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust resident in Jersey.
These options have now vested and expired, but some remaining shares are still held by the Trust and can be used to satisfy vesting under other existing share plans.
A summary of all share activity within the Trust as at 31 December 2018, is as follows: Shares available for $ in millions grant Balance at 1 January 2018 77,276 Exercised Balance at 31 December 2018 77,276 Available at 31 December 2018 77,276 BONUS SHARE AWARD Awards have been made regularly under the BSA to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Further information on awards granted to Directors can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 81101.
Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares.
The performance conditions attached to the BSA are non-market-based performance conditions.
Any dividends paid by the Company will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting.
Under the rules of the BSA, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention to generally satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
As the BSA provides non-contributory share awards that have an entitlement to dividends and no market-based performance conditions attached, the fair value of the awards is the value of the grant.
This is due to the fact that regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, the total value of shares to be awarded excluding shares added in lieu of dividends will not increase, although may decrease subject to performance conditions not being achieved, and or discretion by the Remuneration Committee being exercised.
PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD The PSA makes regular annual awards to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Further information on awards granted to Directors can be found in the Remuneration Report.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid between the date of award and the date of vesting in the form of additional shares.
Any such additional shares are only added to the number of shares which will vest subject to performance conditions being satisfied.
The PSA shares will not ordinarily be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date.
The transfer of shares is dependent upon performance conditions being satisfied over the three consecutive financial years starting in the financial year the award date falls.
The rules of the PSA provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention to satisfy the awards using newlyissued shares at the end of the relevant three-year period.
Executive Directors are required, for the PSA award made in 2017 onwards, to hold a net number of shares after deduction of tax for a further two-year period after the expiry of the three-year performance period.
The performance conditions for the Executive Directors for the PSA have been based on the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to constituents of the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts, and on EBITDA growth measured over a three-year period.
The vesting schedule is structured so that 30% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR for Executive Directors for any participants below Executive Director level this is linked to revenue growth over the three-year period of the awards, 30% is linked to EBITDA and 40% is linked to strategic objectives set out prior to the grant date of the scheme.
The marketbased performance condition has been incorporated into the fair value.
The proposed new Remuneration Policy has new performance measures to be used for the 2019 PSA awards which will be made to the Executive Directors.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 147 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 147 A Stochastic model has been used to value the TSR element attached to 30% of the Executive Directors awards, for all other elements a Black-Scholes model has been used.
The fair values and the assumptions used in the calculation of PSA awards vesting or due to vest in 2019 or after are presented in the table below.
Volatility has been calculated taking account of the historical return index the share price plus dividends reinvested over a period commensurate with the reminder of the performance period at grant.
Performance Share Awards Grant date 12 March 2018 22 March 2017 23 March 2016 Grant price 4.33 7.62 9.30 Market price at date of grant 4.10 7.63 9.43 Exercise price nil nil nil Bad leaver rate 12% 12% 12% Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years Volatility 33.1% 28.6% 22.5% Fair value per share option Executive Director level 1.64 4.43 4.39 Fair value per share option below Executive Director level 4.10 7.63 9.43 Both the BSA and PSA share awards expire 10 years after date of grant or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may determine before the grant of an award.
For share awards outstanding at the period end the weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the BSA and PSA share awards at 31 December 2018 is 1.6 and 1.5 years, respectively.
UK SHARESAVE SCHEME AND INTERNATIONAL SHARESAVE PLAN The UK Sharesave Scheme is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme.
A grant made in May 2018 with an option price of 3.01 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% will mature in July 2021.
A grant made in June 2017 with an option price of 6.04 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% will mature in August 2020.
The International Sharesave Plan mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible.
Participants are given either the opportunity to receive options in the same way as the UK Sharesave Scheme, or the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, delivered at the Companys discretion in cash or shares.
It is the Companys intention to satisfy the awards using shares, some of which are held by the Trust and some of which will be newly-issued.
A grant made in May 2018 with an option price of 3.01 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% will mature in August 2021.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings payments having been made.
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the current grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan at 31 December 2018 is 2.4 and 2.2 years respectively for each plan.
EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP is for U. S. and Canadian employees to purchase the Companys stock at a 15% discount using funds accumulated from monthly contributions.
A grant made under the scheme in December 2015 with an option price of 9.22 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 15% matured in March 2018.
A grant made under the scheme in June 2017 with an option price of 7.16 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 15% will mature in July 2019.
A grant made under the scheme in May 2018 with an option price of 3.03 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 15% will mature in June 2020.
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the ESPP schemes as at 31 December 2018 is 1.4 years.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan and ESPP have been valued with a Black-Scholes model using the following assumptions: Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Scheme Scheme Scheme UK and UK and UK and ESPP International International International ESPP Grant date 30 May 2018 6 June 2017 30 June 2016 30 May 2018 6 June 2017 Market price at date of grant 3.63 8.43 8.05 3.63 8.43 Exercise price 3.01 6.04 5.68 3.03 7.16 Bad leaver rate 3% pa 3% pa 3% pa 3% pa 3% pa Vesting period 36 months 36 months 36 months 25 months 25 months Volatility 32.7% 27.9% 24.6% 35.7% 32.7% Dividend yield assumption 6.8% 5.1% 4.5% 6.8% 5.0% Risk-free interest rate 0.7% 0.1% 0.1% 0.6% 0.1% Fair value per option 0.66 1.93 1.85 0.68 1.61 148 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 148 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED UK SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN The UK Share Incentive Plan SIP has made several awards and is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme.
The last award was made in 2010 and as the SIP holding period has passed, the shares can be transferred to participants at any time free of tax.
RESERVES Cash flow hedge reserve: $ in millions 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 7.7 23.3 Loss recognised on cash flow hedges: Forward exchange contracts 5.2 14.1 Losses on cash flow hedges capitalised to Tangible Assets: Forward exchange contracts 8.9 1.5 Balance at 31 December 4.0 7.7 There are no gains and losses reclassified from equity included within the income statement for the period ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Gains and losses relating to the effective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve.
When a hedged item is recognised in the income statement the cumulative deferred gain or loss accumulated in other comprehensive income and the cash flow hedge reserve is reclassified to the income statement.
When a hedged item is recognised as a non-financial asset or liability in the balance sheet the accumulated gain or loss is removed from the cash flow hedge reserve and included directly in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 149 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 149 28.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2018 has been calculated based on profit attributable to equity holders for the year and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
These represent share options and awards granted to employees under the employee share plans.
The convertible bonds due 2023 could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future, however these shares were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive in the period, as the contingent conditions associated to the bond had not been met.
$ in millions 2018 2017 restated Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 124.2 184.4 Profit attributable to equity holders for diluted earnings per share 124.2 184.4 millions 2018 2017 restated Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 460.3 454.8 Potentially dilutive ordinary shares 7.1 5.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 467.4 459.9 $ per share 2018 2017 restated Basic earnings per share 0.27 0.41 Diluted earnings per share 0.27 0.40 Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2018 has been calculated based on profit attributable to equity holders adjusted for the impact of the movement in the fair value of the conversion liability component of the 2023 convertible bonds and the post-tax impact of restructuring costs 2017 only.
$ in millions 2018 2017 restated Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 124.2 184.4 Adjustment for: Decrease Increase in fair value of conversion of the liability component of 2023 convertible bonds 23.2 7.7 Restructuring costs post-tax 16.1 Adjustable profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 147.4 192.8 millions 2018 2017 restated Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 460.3 454.8 Potentially dilutive ordinary shares 7.1 5.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 467.4 459.9 $ per share 2018 2017 restated Basic earnings per share 0.32 0.42 Diluted earnings per share 0.32 0.42 150 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 150 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
PENSIONS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations.
The Groups pension plans are provided through both defined benefit schemes and defined contribution arrangements.
The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom, regulated by the Pensions Regulator, and The Netherlands.
The Groups principal defined benefit pension plan is the Inmarsat Global scheme, which is a UK funded scheme with assets held in a separate fund administered by a corporate trustee: the scheme is closed to new employees and the Company closed the defined benefit plan to future accruals during 2018.
The trustee is required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme.
The trustees of the pension schemes are responsible for the investment policy with regards to the assets of the fund.
The Group is required to ensure that the plan is fully funded where the future liabilities for benefits are covered by the funds assets.
The size of the asset that can be recognised as a result of a pension surplus should not exceed the recoverable amount and is restricted to the asset ceiling per IAS 19.
The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan was valued using the projected unit credit method with the valuation undertaken by professionally qualified and independent actuaries as at 31 December 2018.
The results of the valuation, which have been updated for any material transactions and material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates up to 31 December 2018, are set out below.
There are no guaranteed minimum pension GMP benefits held under the scheme and there was therefore no impact to the liability as a result of High Court ruling on 26 October 2018.
There have been no plan amendments, curtailments or settlements since the previous year end that we have been made aware of.
The plan closed to future DB accrual with effect from 1 April 2017, and a curtailment gain arising from the break in salary link for active members was reflected in the 2017 year-end accounting disclosures.
The Group also provides post-employment benefits for some of its employees.
The Groups principal scheme is the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme, which is the provision of healthcare to retired employees and their dependants who were employed before 1 January 1998.
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible to participate in the post-retirement healthcare benefit plans.
Membership of this plan is multinational, although most staff are currently employed in the UK.
The plans are self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the costs are paid.
The cost of providing these benefits is actuarially determined and accrued over the service period of the active employee groups.
The Groups post-retirement medical liability is capped at CPI plus 1%.
Schemes denominated in local currencies are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between US Dollars and local currencies.
The primary risk to which the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan exposes the Group is the risk arising through a mismatch between the plans assets and its liabilities.
This is primarily made up of a number of strategic investment risks.
The key strategic investment risks inherent in the current investment strategy are as follows: market risk the risk that investment returns on assets are lower than assumed in the actuarial valuation, thereby resulting in the funding level being lower than expected interest rate risk the risk that the assets do not move in line with the value placed on the liabilities in response to changes in interest rates inflation risk similar to interest rate risk but concerning inflation credit risk the risk that payments due to corporate bond investors may not be made active management risk the risk that active managers underperform the markets in which they invest, resulting in lower-than-expected investment returns and currency risk the risk that currency market movements adversely impact investment returns In addition to the investment-related risks, the plan is also subject to the risk that members live longer than expected, or that the financial assumptions used in valuing the liabilities are not borne out in practice.
This could lead to unexpected contributions from the Group being required to meet the benefit payments due.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the Groups pension and post-employment benefits liabilities under IAS 19 are: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Weighted average actuarial assumptions: Discount rate 2.9% 2.6% Future salary increases 2.4% 2.3% Medical price inflation 3.2% 3.2% Future pension increases 2.9% 2.9% Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 151 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 151 Mortality assumptions have been updated to reflect experience and expected changes in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumptions for the Companys pension and post-employment benefits liabilities are as follows: Life Life expectancy expectancy 2018 2017 Male current age 65 88.2 88.8 Female current age 65 89.4 90.0 Mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the individual scheme actuaries and reflect the latest available tables, adjusted for the experience of the Group where appropriate.
For the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension scheme and the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefits for 2018, mortality has been assumed to follow the S2PA tables with -1 year age rating for males and CMI 2017 improvement with a long-term trend of 1.75% pa.
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase, mortality and healthcare cost trend rates.
The sensitivity analysis below is for the Groups principal pension and post-employment benefits schemes, and has been determined based on reasonable possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period assuming that all other assumptions are held constant.
Inmarsat Global defined benefit scheme: Impact on Impact on benefit projected obligation pension cost increase increase Change in assumption $ in millions decrease decrease Increase in discount factor of 0.25% 4.5 0.2 Decrease in discount factor of 0.25% 4.8 0.2 Increase in inflation of 0.25% 4.8 0.2 Decrease in inflation of 0.25% 4.5 0.1 Mortality: -2 years for males and -1 year for females 3.1 0.1 Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme: Impact on benefit Impact on obligation service cost increase increase Change in assumption $ in millions decrease decrease Increase in discount factor of 0.5% 0.7 Increase in inflation of 0.5% 0.8 Increase in medical price inflation trend rate of 1% 1.6 0.1 Decrease in medical price inflation trend rate of 1% 1.3 In reality, there is an expectation of inter-relationships between the assumptions, for example, between discount rate and inflation.
The above analysis does not take the effect of these inter-relationships into account.
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet are: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2018 2017 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations pension 96.3 126.5 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations pension 0.5 0.5 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations post-employment benefits 9.9 15.9 Fair value of defined benefit assets 126.2 143.5 Net defined benefit asset liability recognised in the balance sheet 19.5 0.6 The above net liability is recognised in the balance sheet as follows: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions Note 2018 2017 Defined benefit pension asset 18 30.9 18.1 Defined benefit pension and post-employment liability 21 11.4 17.5 152 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 152 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Analysis of the movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligations is as follows: PostDefined benefit employment $ in millions pension plan benefits At 1 January 2017 136.3 16.7 Current service cost 1.6 0.4 1 Past service cost 4.1 Interest cost 3.6 0.5 Remeasurement gains: Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 2.6 3.3 Foreign exchange loss 11.3 1.9 Benefits paid 19.5 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 0.4 At 31 December 2017 127.0 15.9 Current service cost 1.0 0.4 1 Past service cost Interest cost 3.1 0.4 Remeasurement gains: Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 3.8 5.0 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 10.0 0.8 Change in experience adjustment 6.4 0.1 Foreign exchange loss 6.0 0.8 Benefits paid 8.3 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 0.2 At 31 December 2018 96.8 9.9 Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the assets of the defined benefit pension plans is as follows: $ in millions 2018 2017 At 1 January 143.5 140.0 Interest income 3.4 3.7 Remeasurement gains losses : Experience return on plan asset excluding interest income 6.2 7.2 Actuarial loss gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 0.4 Contributions by employer 0.8 1.0 Contributions by pension participants 0.2 0.3 Benefits paid 8.1 19.6 Expenses paid included in service cost 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange gain loss 7.0 11.7 At 31 December 126.2 143.5 1 The Group Defined Benefit Pension Plan closed to further benefit accrual on 31 March 2017 and all former active members have now become deferred members.
This curtailment has resulted in a past service credit and decrease to the defined benefit obligation in 2017 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 153 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 153 Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the plans are as follows: 2018 2017 Defined PostDefined Postbenefit employment benefit employment $ in millions pension plan benefits pension plan benefits Current service cost 1.4 0.4 2.0 0.4 Past service gain 4.1 0.0 Net interest income expense 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.5 Foreign exchange gain loss 1.0 0.8 0.4 1.9 2.1 2.6 2.8 Current service cost is included within employee benefit costs note 7.
The net financing costs together with foreign exchange gains and losses are included within interest payable note 9.
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the plans are as follows: 2018 2017 Defined PostDefined Postbenefit employment benefit employment $ in millions pension plan benefits pension plan benefits Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 3.8 5.0 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 10.0 0.8 2.2 3.3 Actuarial gains arising from changes in experience adjustment 6.4 0.1 Return on plan asset excluding interest income 6.2 7.2 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset and liability 14.0 5.7 9.4 3.3 The assets held in respect of the Groups defined benefit schemes were as follows: At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Percentage Percentage Value of total plan Value of total plan $ in millions assets $ in millions assets Equities 10.3 8.2% 30.7 21.4% Cash 0.4 0.3% 1.4 1.0% Bonds 87.3 69.2% 80.9 56.4% Other 28.2 22.3% 30.5 21.2% Fair value of scheme assets 126.2 143.5 All of the Plan assets are invested in pooled investment funds.
The majority of these are priced daily, but are not quoted market prices.
The exceptions to this are certain weekly priced funds UCITS Alternatives Strategies and monthly priced funds High Income UK Property, Liquid Alternative Strategies Alternatives and Multi Asset Credit.
With regards to private debt, the portfolio will be valued on an absolute basis, using the best efforts value on a quarterly basis.
Therefore, fund investments are primarily valued based on the market value capital account statements received from the underlying general partners of the underlying funds.
Capital account statements and unaudited financial statements are distributed approximately 90 days after each quarter.
The fund also distributes US GAAP audited financials, including capital account statements, for each 31 December fiscal year-end around 30 June of the subsequent year.
The actual allocations to each of the investment funds as at 31 December 2018 are shown in the table below.
The investment portfolio seeks to mitigate the investment risks identified above through a combination of asset class diversification, underlying investment manager diversification and the use of currency hedging where appropriate.
The assets are split into two portfolios: the growth portfolio and the matching portfolio.
The assets within the growth portfolio are invested so as to achieve an appropriate level of growth above that of the Plans liabilities, ensuring a sufficiently diversified portfolio of investments provides the Plan with a variety of sources of return, without unduly exposing the Plan to a single type of risk.
The assets within the matching portfolio are invested so as to reduce the level of unrewarded risk and ensure the portfolio broadly matches changes in the value of the Plans liabilities.
The assets are split into two portfolios, the growth portfolio and the matching portfolio.
The assets within the growth portfolio are invested so as to achieve an appropriate level of growth above that of the plans liabilities, ensuring a sufficiently diversified portfolio of investments provides the plan with a variety of sources of return, without unduly exposing the plan to a single type of risk.
The assets within the matching portfolio are invested so as to minimise the level of unrewarded risk and ensure the portfolio broadly matches changes in the value of the plans liabilities.
This is achieved by investing in a range of pooled investment funds as outlined in the table above, with the allocation to each fund determined by a combination of the following: the nature of the plans liability structure, the target level of hedging deemed appropriate to reflect the Trustees risk tolerance and a fair value assessment of market levels.
Some of these funds achieve their objectives by utilising a range of bond or bond type instruments, resulting in leveraged exposure which enables the plan to match a greater proportion of its liabilities than would be possible by only holding physical securities.
Instruments utilised within the funds include fixed interest gilts, index-linked gilts, corporate bonds, gilt repos, interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and total return swaps.
The plan does not hold any direct investments in the Group: however, due to the pooled nature of the investment funds, there may be some indirect investment.
The duration of the defined benefit liabilities within the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan is approximately 21 years.
The defined benefit obligation as at December 2018 is split as follows: Active members 0% following the closure of the plan to future accrual effective 1 April 2017, all former active members have become deferred members Deferred members 81% Pensioner members 19% Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 155 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 155 The average age of the deferred and pensioner members at the date of the last statutory funding valuation for the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan 31 December 2018 was 56 years and 69 years, respectively.
The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension plan during 2019 are $0.5m.
In 2018 actual contributions under this plan were $nil 2017: $0.2m.
OPERATING LEASES During the year the Group received income from various agreements deriving revenue from leased equipment.
These amounts are recorded as revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms and represent the majority of the Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expected to be received.
CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The following table summarises the capital of the Group: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2018 2017 restated As per balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents 143.2 144.9 Short-term deposits greater than three months 145.7 342.0 1 Borrowings 2,465.5 2,565.5 Net borrowings 2,176.6 2,078.6 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent 1,336.0 1,247.5 Capital 3,512.6 3,326.1 1 This excludes the conversion liability on the convertible bond of $148.8m and lease obligations of $71.0m at 31 December 2018 The Groups objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may repurchase, refinance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and or debt securities from time to time in private or open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities.
Additionally, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group uses a maximum ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA as an internal planning parameter and in regular forecasting and monitoring activities.
In addition, movements in cash and borrowings as well as total available liquidity are monitored regularly.
The net borrowings to EBITDA ratio for the year ended 31 December 2018 is 2.8 2017: 2.8.
The Groups liquidity is disclosed in note 3 d. No changes were made in the Groups objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current or preceding year.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS TREASURY MANAGEMENT AND STRATEGY The Groups treasury activities are managed by its treasury department which reports into the Chief Financial Officer.
The treasury department operations are bound by the Board-approved treasury policy and related treasury operating manual.
The overriding objective of treasury activities is to manage financial risk.
Key features of treasury management include: ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities and maximising return on short-term investments based on counterparty limits and credit ratings Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are on the approved counterparty list approved by the Board.
The Groups foreign exchange policy is not to hedge its foreign currency transactions.
Where there is a material contract with a foreign currency exposure, a specific hedge to match the specific risk will be evaluated and must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer prior to any hedge being undertaken.
156 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 156 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY The following table sets out the categorisation of financial assets and liabilities under IFRS 9: At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Fair value Derivatives Fair value Derivatives Amortised through profit used for Amortised through used for $ in millions cost and loss hedging Total cost profit and loss hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet 1 Trade receivables and other 337.7 337.7 275.3 275.3 Cash and cash equivalents 143.2 143.2 144.9 144.9 Short-term deposits 145.7 145.7 342.0 342.0 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 1.5 1.5 337.7 288.9 0.3 626.9 275.3 486.9 1.5 763.7 1 Consists of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income see note 18 At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Fair value Derivatives Fair value Derivatives Amortised through used for through used for $ in millions cost profit and loss hedging Total Amortised cost profit and loss hedging Total Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings 2,465.5 2,465.5 2,565.5 2,565.5 1 Trade payables and other 237.2 237.2 328.0 328.0 Derivative financial instruments 148.8 4.0 152.8 125.7 10.0 135.7 2,702.7 148.8 4.0 2,855.5 2,893.5 125.7 10.0 3,029.2 1 Consists of trade payables, other payables and accruals see note 21 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not significant.
At 31 December 2018 Less than Between Between Over $ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total 1 Borrowings 254.4 251.1 1556.2 1,001.1 3062.8 Trade payables and other 234.8 0.3 0.6 1.5 237.2 Derivative financial instruments 2.4 1.5 148.9 0.0 152.8 491.6 252.9 1,705.7 1,002.6 3,452.8 1 Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2022 and 2024, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations on those borrowings are at fixed rates for the term of the borrowing At 31 December 2017 Less than Between Between Over $ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total 1 Borrowings 260.2 254.4 1,694.0 1,188.5 3,397.1 Trade payables and other 321.3 1.7 3.5 1.5 328.0 Derivative financial instruments 7.9 1.9 0.2 125.7 135.7 589.4 258.0 1,697.7 1,315.7 3,860.8 1 Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2022 and 2024, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations on those borrowings are at fixed rates for the term of the borrowing Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 157 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 157 FAIR VALUES OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups derivative financial instruments consist of forward foreign currency contracts which are primarily designated as cash flow hedges and the conversion liability component of the convertible bonds due 2023.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value see further below on the contract date and are re-measured at each reporting date.
The change in the fair value is accounted for differently depending on whether the instrument qualifies for hedge accounting eg where a forward foreign currency transaction is designated as a cash flow hedge or not eg undesignated cash flow hedges and the conversion liability component of the 2023 convertible bond.
Under hedge accounting, the change in fair value initially goes through other comprehensive income.
At the point hedge accounting is discontinued, ie when the hedging instrument expires, is exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, the amounts sitting in other comprehensive income are recycled to the income statement or, where appropriate, capitalised to the balance sheet.
Where hedge accounting does not apply, the change in fair value is included in net financing costs in the income statement.
The fair values at the balance sheet date were: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2018 2017 Financial assets: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 0.3 1.5 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated Total derivative financial assets 0.3 1.5 Current portion of derivative financial assets 0.3 1.2 Non-current portion of derivative financial assets 0.3 Financial liabilities: Conversion liability component of 2023 Convertible Bond 148.8 125.7 Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 3.4 9.9 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 0.6 0.1 Total derivative financial liabilities 152.8 135.7 Current portion of derivative financial liabilities 2.4 7.9 Non-current portion of derivative financial liabilities 150.4 127.8 The full value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts are based on the difference between the contract amount at the current forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk-free rate at the period end.
The fair value of the conversion liability component of the Convertible Bonds due 2023 is determined as the difference between the market value of the Convertible Bond and the fair value of a comparable, non-convertible bond, known as a debt host contract.
Both are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13.
The Group has no financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs, ie those that would be classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE The following tables set out the face value and fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2018 and 2017: At 31 December 2018 Maturing Maturing Maturing within between between Fair value Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in millions Face value 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 Years US$ 1 GBP contractsUSD:GBP 1:0.73 24.0 20.1 3.3 0.6 1.8 1 CAD contractsUSD:CAD 1:1.30 CAD 12.0 CAD 9.0 CAD 3.0 CAD 0.0 0.3 1 Weighted Average Foreign Exchange Rate At 31 December 2017 Maturing Maturing Maturing Fair value within between between Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in millions Face value 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 Years US$ 1 GBP contractsUSD:GBP 1:0.70 105.2 87.6 13.7 3.8 9.0 1 CAD contractsUSD:CAD 1:1.30 CAD 30.9 CAD 20.1 CAD 7.8 CAD 3.0 0.9 1 Weighted Average Foreign Exchange Rate 158 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 158 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The Group has entered into contracts to build the I-6 satellite.
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts for terms equivalent to when the milestone payments fall due to hedge the exchange rate risk arising from these anticipated milestone payments, which are designated as cash flow hedges.
As at 31 December 2018, the aggregate amount of losses under forward foreign exchange contracts deferred in the cash flow hedging reserve relating to the exposure on these payments is $4.0m.
The milestone payments will take place at irregular periods throughout each year until 2021, at which time the related cash flow hedges deferred in equity will be transferred and included in the initial carrying value of the hedged non-financial assets.
Hedge ineffectiveness can arise from changes in both the creditworthiness of counterparties hedged with and the credit risk of the Group.
The hedge ineffectiveness for 2018 was less than $0.1m 2017: nil.
NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Non-derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term investments, trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income.
Non-derivative financial liabilities consist of borrowings, trade payables, other payables and accruals.
FAIR VALUE OF NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES With the exception of the Senior Notes, the Ex-Im Bank Facilities and the Convertible Bonds, the fair values of all non-derivative financial instruments approximate to the carrying value in the balance sheet.
The fair value of Senior Notes, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13.
The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values: the fair values of cash at bank, overdrafts and short-term deposits approximate their carrying values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments see note 17 the fair value of trade and other receivables and payables, accrued income and costs, and deferred consideration approximate their carrying values see notes 18 and 21 respectively the carrying amount of deferred satellite payments represents the present value of future payments discounted, using an appropriate rate, at the period end.
This carrying amount approximately equals fair value see note 20 the Senior Notes due 2022 are reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs and net issuance premium of $3.9m and $3.4m, respectively see note 20.
The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2022 are based on the market price of the bonds and are reflected in the next table the Senior Notes due 2024 are reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs of $4.2m see note 20.
The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2024 are based on the market price of the bonds and are reflected in the next table the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs of $6.5m 2017: $14.9m.
The fair value of the 2011 facility has been based on the implicit interest rate of the 2014 facility see note 20 and the debt liability component of the Convertible Bonds is reflected in the balance sheet on an amortised cost basis, net of unamortised arrangement costs of $5.4m 2017: $6.6m see note 20.
The fair value of the Convertible Bonds is based on the market price of the bonds and is reflected in the table below At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value 1 $ in millions amount amount amount amount Senior Notes due 2022 1,000.0 945.6 1,000.0 1,000.8 Senior Notes due 2024 400.0 382.1 400.0 408.1 Ex-Im Bank Facilities 508.7 508.9 630.9 639.7 Convertible Bonds due 2023 debt component 574.8 545.8 561.6 566.5 1 Gross of unamortised arrangement cost 33.
CAPITAL AND PURCHASE COMMITMENTS The Group had authorised and contracted but not provided for capital commitments as at 31 December 2018 of $492.5m 2017: $968.0m.
These amounts primarily represent commitments in respect of the Groups I-6 satellite programmes.
The Group has not reported the split between tangible assets and intangible assets for these capital commitments, as the necessary information is not available and the cost to develop it would be excessive.
In addition, the Group has the following purchase commitments, relating to future obligations to purchase space segment capacity: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2018 2017 Within one year 14.0 24.7 Within two to five years 1.7 11.5 15.7 36.2 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 159 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 159 34.
CONTINGENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINGENT ASSETS In respect of the ongoing legal dispute surrounding the provision of services to RigNet, the Phase I ruling by the Centre for Dispute Resolutions Arbitration tribunal was in favour of the Group.
This concluded that the Group is owed $50.8m by RigNet.
This is an interim ruling and RigNet is not required to pay until the tribunals Phase II ruling has taken place towards the end of 2019.
This asset has not been recognised during the financial year as its receipt is not virtually certain and the amount is dependent on the outcome of the Phase II ruling.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, interest charges, reputational damage and other sanctions.
These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In cases where the Group has an obligation as a result of a past event existing at the balance sheet date, and it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision will be recognised based on best estimates and management judgement.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of the obligation will only be confirmed by future events, or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had no material contingent liabilities.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Since the balance sheet date there have been no other significant events which would require disclosure in the 31 December 2018 financial statements.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the normal course of operations the Group engages in transactions with its equity-owned investees Navarino UK and JSAT Mobile Communications Inc.
These transactions represent sales of airtime and equipment and are measured at the amounts exchanged.
Group revenue from the related parties for the 2018 financial year was $39.7m and $15.6m, respectively 2017: $38.1m and $16.9m, respectively.
The amount receivable from the related parties at 31 December 2018 was $17.2m and $1.7m, respectively 2017: $12.6m and $1.7m, respectively.
Amounts owing to the Executive as at 31 December 2018 is $1.4m 2017: $1.2m and relates to remuneration earned in the normal course of operations see note 8.
160 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 160 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 37.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS At 31 December 2018, the Company had investments in the following subsidiaries and associates: Interest in Interest in issued issued ordinary ordinary share share capital at capital at Country of incorporation 31 December 31 December 1 Principal activity registered address key 2018 2017 100% Inmarsat Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% Inmarsat Group Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance PLC 100% Finance company England and Wales A 100% Inmarsat Investments Limited 100% Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Ventures SE Operating company England and Wales A 100% Inmarsat Global Limited Satellite telecommunications England and Wales A 100% 100% ISAT Global Xpress OOO 100% Operating company Russian Federation X 100% Inmarsat Brasil Eireli 100% Dormant Brazil H 100% 100% Inmarsat Leasing Two Limited Satellite leasing England and Wales A 100% Inmarsat New Zealand Limited Operating company New Zealand U 100% 100% Inmarsat Services Limited 100% Operating company England and Wales A 100% PT ISAT 100% Operating company Indonesia Q 100% 49% Inmarsat Communications Company LLC Operating company United Arab Emirates AC 49% Inmarsat Group Holdings Inc. Operating company United States C 100% 100% ISAT US Inc. 100% Operating company United States C 100% Inmarsat Government Inc. 100% Operating company United States D 100% 100% Stratos Government Services Inc. Operating company United States D 100% Inmarsat Commercial Services Inc. Operating company United States D 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions US Inc. 100% Operating company United States D 100% Inmarsat Inc. 100% Holding company United States D 100% 100% Inmarsat US Investments Limited Dormant England and Wales A 100% Europasat Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Employment Company Limited 100% Employment company Jersey T 100% Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited 100% Dormant England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance III Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% Inmarsat Solutions Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Canada Inc. 100% Operating company Canada B 100% Stratos Holdings Cyprus Limited 100% Holding company Cyprus K 100% 100% Inmarsat Germany GmBH Operating company Germany L 100% Stratos Global Japan KK Holding company Japan S 100% 100% Stratos Investments BV 100% Holding company The Netherlands V 100% Inmarsat Solutions B. V. 100% Operating company The Netherlands V 100% 90% Inmarsat Solutions SA PTY Limited Operating company South Africa Z 90% Inmarsat Spain S. A.
Operating company Spain AA 100% 100% Inmarsat Hong Kong Limited 100% Operating company Hong Kong N 100% Inmarsat IP Company Limited 100% Dormant England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Hellas Satellite Services SA Satellite telecommunications Greece M 100% Inmarsat Navigation Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Global Xpress Limited 100% Operating company England and Wales A 100% Inmarsat SA 100% Operating company Switzerland AB 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Global Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% Inmarsat Solutions AS Operating company Norway W 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Pte.
Limited 100% Operating company Singapore Y 100% Inmarsat Solutions ehf.
51% Operating company Iceland O 51% 100% Inmarsat Australia Pty Limited Operating company Australia F 100% Inmarsat KK Operating company Japan S 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Shanghai Co. Limited 100% Operating company China J 100% Inmarsat India Private Limited 100% Operating company India P 100% 100% Inmarsat Licences Canada Inc. Holding company Canada B 100% Flysurfer Colombia S. A. S. Operating company Columbia I 100% 100% Flysurfer Peru S. A. C. 100% Operating company Peru R 100% Inmarsat New Ventures Limited 100% Operating company England and Wales A 100% Flysurfer-Ecuador S. A.
Operating company Ecuador AE Inmarsat Satellite Services S. R. L. Operating company Romania AF 100% Inmarsat BH d. o. o.
100% Operating company Bosnia and Herzegovina AG Inmarsat Solutions doo Beograd 100% Operating company Serbia AH 100% Inmarsat DOOEL Skopje Operating company Macedonia E Navarino UK Limited Associate England and Wales AD 49% 49% JSAT Mobile Communications Inc. 26.67% Associate Japan G 26.67% 1 For the list of registered addresses please refer to the next table Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 161 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 161 In accordance with s479A of the Companies Act 2006, the following companies are exempt from the requirements relating to the audit of individual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018: Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited 03688399, Inmarsat IP Company Limited 03930467 and Inmarsat US Investments Limited 07100989.
REGISTERED ADDRESS KEY Key Registered Address A 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX, United Kingdom B 34 Glencoe Drive, Box 5754, Donovans Bus.
Park, Mount Pearl Newfoundland A1N 4S8, Canada C 874 Walker Road, Suite C, City of Dover fide 19904, United States D 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United States E Str.
Risto Ravanovski no 13a, Skopje, Republic of Macedonia, Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of F Level 40, Governor Macquarie Tower, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia G Nisso Building #22 8F, Azabudai1-11-10, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106-0041, Japan H Av Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek 50, Suite 172, Room 7, 17th Floor, So Paulo, CEP 04543-000, Brazil I Cra.
71-52 Tower B 9th Floor, Bogota, DC, Colombia 110231 J No 204 Ronghui Park, Yuhua Road, Area B, Tianzhu Airport Industrial Zone, Shanyi District Beijing, China K 1, Lampousas, Nicosia, 1095, Cyprus L Aarberger Strasse 18, 12205, Berlin, Germany M 280 Kifisias Avenue, Halandri, 152 32, Greece N 19 Floor, Milennium trade Centre, No.
56 Kwai Cheong Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong O Hlarsmra 10, 201 Kpavogi P P-24, Green Park Extension, Delhi.
India Q Panbil Residence 1st 2nd Floor, Jl.
Ahmad Yani, Muka Kuning Batam 29433, Indonesia R Dentons Gallo Barrios Pickmann SCRL, General Crdova N 313, Miraflores Lima 18, Per S Level 25 Ark Hills Sengokuyama Mori Tower, 1-9-10, Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 106-0032, Japan T 44 Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG, Jersey U Bell Gully, Lvl 22, Vero Centre, 48 Shortland Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand V Loire 158-160, 2491 AL, The Hague, Netherlands W NMK Borgundveien 340, 6009 lesund, Norway X Bld.
5, 13 Kasatkina Street, 129301, Moscow, Russian Federation Y 11 Lorong 3 Toa Payoh, #01-31, Jackson Square, 319579, Singapore Z Deloitte Place, The Woodlands, 20 Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton, Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa, 2052 AA Prncipe fide Vergara 73, 28006, Madrid, Spain AB Route fide Crassier 19, 1262, Eysins, Switzerland AC Al Maktoum Street, Al Reem Tower, Suite 402, P. O.
Box 27313, Dubai, UAE, United Arab Emirates AD Camburgh House, 27 New Dover Road, Canterbury, Kent CT1 3DN, United Kingdom AE Republica fide El Salvador N35-146 y Suecia, Edif.
Prisma Norte, Piso 11, Quito, C. P. 170505, Ecuador AF 22 Tudor Vladimirescu Biv.
Building Green Gate Office, Bucharest, 5th Floor 573Campus07, Sector, Bucharest, Romania AG Street Skenderpasina 1, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina AH GTC Avenue 19, 38-40 Vladimira Popovica Street, New Belgrade, Servia, 11070, Serbia
