164 Financial Statements | Company financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 164 Financial statements | Company financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2018 A PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Accordingly, the Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to presentation of a cash flow statement, the reconciliation of net cash from operations, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions, share based payments and financial instruments.
Where required, equivalent disclosures have been given in the Group accounts of Inmarsat plc.
The accounting policies and financial risk management policies and objectives, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with those of the consolidated Group as set out in notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
B CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND KEY JUDGEMENTS The critical accounting estimates and key judgements, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with those of the consolidated Group as set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statement.
C INCOME STATEMENT The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of Companies Act 2006 and has not presented an income statement.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION During the year, the Company paid its external auditor $0.1m for statutory audit services 2017: $0.1m.
EMPLOYEE COSTS AND DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The average monthly number of people employed during the year was two 2017: two.
Full details of Directors remuneration and Directors share options and share awards are given in the Remuneration report.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION Accounting for foreign currency transactions of the Company is consistent with that of the Group, which is disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
SHARE CAPITAL The share capital of the Company is disclosed in note 25 to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
D FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The IFRS 7, Financial Instruments disclosures, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with that of the Group as set out in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
The differences between the Group and the Company in relation to intercompany balances are $242.1m 2017: $466.0m amounts due from Group companies and $33.1m 2017: $30.2m amounts due to Group companies, which eliminate on consolidation.
The Directors consider the carrying value of the intercompany balances to approximate to their fair value.
The Group has assessed the intercompany receivables under the IFRS 9 expected credit loss model and no impairment losses have been recognised.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Company financial statements 165 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Company financial statements 165 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES The Directors use Alternative Performance Measures APMs to better understand the underlying financial performance of the Group and to provide comparability of information between reporting periods and business units.
The measures are also used in discussions with the investment analyst community and the credit rating agencies.
Given that APMs are not defined by International Financial Reporting Standards they may not be directly comparable with other companies who use similar measures.
APMs used in these financial statements are: APM Description and Reconciliation 1.
EBITDA EBITDA is defined as profit for the year before net financing costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation, gains losses on disposal of assets, impairment losses and share of profit of associates.
EBITDA is a commonly used industry measure which helps investors to understand the contribution made by each of our business units.
It reflects how the effect of growing revenues and cost management deliver value for our shareholders.
This measure has been reconciled to both operating profit and profit after tax within the CFO report.
Adjusted PAT Adjusted PAT is defined as Profit after Tax excluding the non-cash impact of the unrealised movement in the fair value of the conversion liability component of the 2023 convertible bond and the post tax restructuring charge.
This measure allows investors to evaluate PAT after stripping out material non-operational items.
A reconciliation to Profit after tax can be found within the CFO report.
Direct and indirect costs Direct costs are defined as expenses that can be traced directly to the sale of a product or service.
Indirect costs are those costs which are not directly attributable to a sale.
This measure is useful to investors because it allows them to understand the potential development of our cost profile in the future.
The sum of direct and indirect costs incurred in 2018 were $695.1m which equals total net operating costs in the Income Statement.
Revenue ex Ligado Revenue ex Ligado is defined as Group revenue less Ligado revenue.
This measure is useful to investors because it excludes revenue that is not considered part of our core operations.
This has been reconciled to total revenue within the CFO report.
EBITDA ex Ligado EBITDA ex Ligado is defined as Group EBITDA less Ligado EBITDA.
Ligado EBITDA consists of Ligado revenues less Ligado costs incurred.
This measure allows investors to evaluate the EBITDA that is only attributable to our core operations.
Ligado EBITDA for 2018 was $130.6m and comprised of $130.7m revenue and $0.1m.
Cash Capex Cash capital expenditure is the cash flow relating to tangible and intangible asset additions, it includes capitalised labour costs and excludes capitalised interest.
Cash capex indicates our continued investment in the growth and development of our network and infrastructure as well as our investment in the future technologies of the business.
This has been reconciled to total capital expenditure within note 5.
Adjusted EPS Adjusted Earnings Per Share is computed as Group Adjusted Profit After Tax attributable to equity holders of the Company divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue excluding shares held by the Employee Trust.
Growth in adjusted EPS is a measure of our ability to deliver profitable growth by increasing our revenue and delivering cost efficiencies across the Group, thereby delivering value for our shareholders.
Please refer to note 28 for the reconciliation of Adjusted EPS to EPS.
Free Cash Flow Free Cash Flow represents how much cash is available to pay back borrowings, distribute to investors or invest in the business in future periods.
This has been reconciled to the net increase or decrease in cash and cash equivalents within the CFO report.
Underlying effective tax rate The underlying effective tax rate is used to analyse differences from the corporate tax rate which are implicit to business operations rather than driven by accounting adjustments.
For the year, this has been calculated by taking the tax charge $42.9m add prior year adjustments $8.0m less revaluation of deferred tax balances $0.2m divided by PBT $167.9m adjusted for the impact of the unrealised conversion liability of the convertible bonds $23.2m.
10. Business Unit Operating Cash Flow This is indicative of the cash generated by the relevant business unit for the period in review.
It is calculated by taking EBITDA less cash capex.
Both EBITDA and Cash Capex have been defined above and reconciled.
1 2018 APMs include the impact of IFRS 16 and therefore may not be directly comparable
