COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ShareCapital based Share Share redemption payment Retained Total capital premium reserve reserve earnings equity 000 000 000 000 000 000 Balance at 1 October 2016 57 - - - 614 671 Comprehensive income for the year: Profit for the year - - - - 18,290 18,290 Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 18,290 18,290 Distributions to owners: Dividends - - - - 13,528 13,528 Total distributions to owners - - - - 13,528 13,528 Balance at 1 October 2017 57 - - - 34,961 35,018 Comprehensive income for the year: Profit for the year - - - - 36,846 36,846 Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 36,846 36,846 Distributions to owners: Issue of share capital 3,256 - - - 3,256 - Dividends - - - - 30,791 30,791 Other movement - - - 350 - 350 Total distributions to owners 3,256 - - 350 34,047 30,441 Balance at 30 September 2018 3,313 - - 350 37,760 41,423 Notes 1 to 34 form part of these Financial Statements INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 3 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, which are stated at their fair value, have been prepared in pound sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and are rounded to the nearest thousand.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis following an assessment by the Directors.
The Company has a net asset position, strong solvency position, is currently profitable and, based on the latest forecasts, expects to remain profitable.
As a result, the Board has reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence from at least 12 months from the date of approving these Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Where the Company has control over an investee, it is classified as a subsidiary.
The Company controls an investee if all three of the following elements are present: power over the investee, exposure to variable returns from the investee, and the ability of the investor to use its power to affect those variable returns.
Control is reassessed whenever facts and circumstances indicate that there may be a change in any of these elements of control.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Company and are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses, and profits and losses are eliminated.
The Financial Statements of all of the wholly owned subsidiary companies are incorporated into the consolidated Financial Statements.
Two of these subsidiaries, IntegraLife International Limited ILInt and IntegraLife UK Limited ILUK issue contracts with the legal form of insurance contracts, but which do not transfer significant insurance risk from the policyholder to the Company, and which are therefore accounted for as investment contracts.
In accordance with IAS 39, the contracts concerned are therefore reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position as investments held for the benefit of policyholders, and a corresponding liability to policyholders.
b Future standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations not early-adopted in the 2018 annual Financial Statements.
At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements the following standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 sets out requirements for recognising and measuring financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces a new expected loss model for recognising impairments and requires enhanced disclosures in the Financial Statements.
This standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Group will adopt IFRS 9 on 1 October 2018. i Reclassification and re-measurement IFRS 9 contains a new classification and measurement approach for financial assets that reflects the business model in which the assets are managed and their cash flow characteristics.
Reclassification and re-measurement requirements have been assessed against the financial instruments of the Group and, whilst certain financial instruments will be reclassified in line with the new categories, no financial instruments are expected to require re-measurement.
98 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 The below table highlights the key financial instruments and their reclassifications: Financial instrument IAS 39 classification IFRS 9 classification Trade and other receivables Loans and receivables Amortised cost Accrued fees Loans and receivables Amortised cost Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables Amortised cost Investments in quoted debt instruments Fair value through profit and loss Fair value through profit and loss Listed shares and securities Fair value through profit and loss Fair value through profit and loss Trade and other payables Amortised cost Amortised cost Loans Loans and receivables Amortised cost ii Impairment model IFRS 9 replaces the incurred loss model in IAS 39 with an expected credit loss model.
For assets in the scope of the IFRS 9 impairment model, impairment losses are generally expected to increase and become more volatile.
Management has performed a preliminary assessment of the impact of the transition to an expected loss model and, assuming the makeup of balances as at 30 September 2019 is similar to the balances as at 30 September 2018, do not expect any material lifetime expected credit losses to be recognised.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The standard provides a comprehensive new model for revenue recognition.
The Group will be required to disclose information about its contracts with customers, disaggregating information about recognised revenue and information about its performance obligations at the end of the reporting period.
The Group will adopt IFRS 15 on 1 October 2018.
An assessment of the impact of IFRS 15 has been conducted, covering annual commission, wrapper fee income, buy commission and dealing income.
Consideration has been given to the following steps, as per the requirements of IFRS 15: Identify the contract with the customer: Identify the performance obligations in the contract: Determine the transaction price: Allocate the transaction price to the obligations in the contract: Recognise revenue when the entity has satisfied its performance obligations.
It is the view of management that the revenue recognition methods currently employed by the Group satisfy the requirements of IFRS 15.
This is because the contract, performance obligations and transaction price for all revenue streams can be clearly identified in the Transact terms and conditions, and all revenue is currently recognised only after all performance obligations have been satisfied.
No material impact is therefore expected on the Group on adoption of the standard.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 brings most leases on-balance sheet for lessees under a single lessee accounting model, eliminating the distinction between operating and finance leases.
The Group will adopt IFRS 16 on 1 October 2019.
The Group intends to use the cumulative catch-up method of transition, which uses the net effect of applying IFRS 16 on the first day of the first accounting period in which the new standard is applied.
The net effect is recognised through an adjustment of retained earnings or other relevant parts of shareholders equity.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued An assessment of the impact of adopting the standard has been conducted, which indicates that on adoption the Group will recognise right of use assets of approximately 5.3m and lease liabilities of approximately 6.3m.
This will lead to an immaterial reduction in retained earnings, which is the cumulative effect of recognising the asset and corresponding liability for each of the leases.
This negative impact is caused by a change in the timings of expenses, as operating lease accounting requires straight line recognition of expenses, whereas under IFRS 16 the effective interest method is used.
This means that the interest expense on the lease liability is higher at first and reduces year on year.
The negative impact will therefore reverse over the lives of the leases.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts IFRS 17 was issued in May 2017 and will replace IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
IFRS 17 establishes the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts within the scope of the Standard.
The Group would be required to provide information that faithfully represents those contracts, such that users of the Financial Statements can assess the effect insurance contracts have on the entitys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021, subject to EU endorsement.
The Group has performed a preliminary assessment regarding the impact of IFRS 17 on the Financial Statements and, due to all contracts written by the business being investment contracts, it is deemed such impact will be negligible.
c Critical accounting estimates and judgements Critical accounting estimates are those which involve the most complex or subjective judgements or assessments.
The areas of the Groups business that typically require such estimates are the determination of the fair value for financial assets, impairment charges, deferred acquisition costs, deferred fee income and deferred taxes.
Each of these is discussed in more detail in the relevant accounting policies and notes to the Financial Statements.
d Principal accounting policies Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of services supplied by the Group.
The main revenue streams comprise: charges levied on the acquisition of assets, due when transactions complete: annual commission levied on the value of assets and cash held on the platform, due at the end of each month: and an annual wrapper charge levied on certain wrapper types, due at the end of each quarter.
Charges are levied on Portfolios as stated in the Transact Terms and Conditions.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Fee income Fees charged for administrating investment contracts comprise fees taken both on inception and throughout the life of the contract.
All fee income is recognised as revenue in line with the provision of the investment administration services.
Deferred acquisition costs and deferred income liabilities Incremental costs directly attributable to securing investment contracts are deferred.
These costs consist of fees paid to policyholder financial advisers.
The costs are capitalised as deferred acquisition costs and are amortised as an expense over the Directors best estimate of the life of the contract which is deemed to be sixteen years, as the services are provided.
Equal service provision is assumed over the lifetime of the contract and, as such, the deferred costs are amortised on a linear basis over the expected life of the contract, adjusted for expected persistency.
A corresponding deferred income liability is recognised in respect of charges taken from customers of the Company at the contracts inception to meet obligations to financial advisers.
Deferred income liabilities are also amortised over the Directors best estimate of the life of the contract, which is again deemed to be sixteen years.
Investment income Interest on cash and coupon on shareholder gilts are the two sources of investment income received.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that financial assets carrying amount.
100 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018
