Strategic Report | Ever Better, Ever Stronger Solutions for a safer world A MORE COMPLEX WORLD BRINGS EVER BIGGER OPPORTUNITIES FOR INTERTEK 4 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5 Strategic Report | Ever Better, Ever Stronger Solutions for a safer world EVER BIGGER OPPORTUNITIES TO ACCELERATE GROWTH ATTRACTIVE STRUCTURAL GROWTH DRIVERS We offer ATIC solutions to clients operating in three attractive sectors of the economy.
Products: delivering qualityTrade: assuring that every product Resources: forming, establishing, assurance solutions for end-products, shipped meets all relevant regulatory, maintaining and assuring our components, processes and supply safety and quality standards.
customers operating assets and chains.
Demand driven by increasing Demand driven by population and processes.
Demand driven by long-term brand and SKU numbers, increased GDP growth, the development of energy demand, supply chain risk safety requirements and regulation, regional trade, increased focus management, sustainability of energy faster innovation, growing consumer on traceability and growth in port supply, infrastructure investments, focus on sustainability and greater and transport infrastructure.
growth in alternative energy and focus focus on risk management.
See our Products case studies See our Trade case study See our Resources case study on page 45 and 47 on page 49 on page 51 PRODUCTS TRADE RESOURCES 60% 23% 17% OF REVENUE OF REVENUE OF REVENUE 77% 17% 6% OF PROFIT OF PROFIT OF PROFIT Increased number of Brands Population growth Long-term demand for & SKUs energy Development of regional Increased regulation trade Supply chain risk management Improvements in safety, Increased focus on traceability Sustainability of energy performance and quality supply GDP growth Faster innovation cycle Investment in infrastructure Growth in transport Increased consumer focus on infrastructure Growth in alternative energy sustainable products Growth in port Focus on health and safety Increased corporation focus infrastructure on risk management GLOBAL, GLOBAL GDP REGIONAL GROWTH AGNOSTIC AND LOCAL DRIVERS IN GROWTH TRADE THE ENERGY DRIVERS GROWTH SECTOR 6 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report EVER GROWING CORPORATE COMPLEXITY EVER BIGGER GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES The world never stands still and the corporate The global Quality Assurance market offers exciting environment in which our clients operate is becoming growth opportunities for Intertek.
With the Total more complex every day.
With ever growing complexity, Quality Assurance TQA market poised for growth our customers face unprecedented levels of risk across due to supply chain expansion across the world and every element of their businesses.
an increasing focus on TQA, Intertek is moving beyond the established US$250 billion ATIC market to a much Interteks ATIC services are mission-critical for our larger addressable opportunity.
customers to manage risk across their supply and distribution chains.
GLOBAL ATIC MARKET CYBERSECURITY A booming cybercrime economy has resulted in $1.5 trillion in illicit profits being acquired, laundered, spent and reinvested by cybercriminals.
$50bn PRODUCT QUALITY CURRENTLY Globally, product recalls are on the OUTSOURCED rise.
In a five-year period, the number of products recalled increased by nearly 40%.
Tougher regulations, global supply chains, materials from fewer suppliers and greater consumer awareness are $200bn contributing to a rise in recalls.
CURRENTLY IN-HOUSE SUSTAINABILITY In 2016, cities generated 2.0 billion tonnes of solid waste.
This is forecast to increase by UNTAPPED 70% to 3.4 billion tonnes by 2050.
POTENTIAL FOOD FRAUD It is believed that food fraud may By leveraging our global leadership position, affect 10% of all commercially sold attractive structural growth drivers and innovative food products, with a potential cost ATIC solutions, we enable our clients to thrive of $10-15 billion to the global food in a complex world.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7 Strategic Report | Ever Better, Ever Stronger Solutions for a safer world EVER BETTER EVER STRONGER The world of our clients is getting more and more We have made continuous progress over complex and companies are increasing their focus on risk, the past four years, capitalising on our which creates ever bigger growth opportunities for Intertek given our unique TQA value proposition that strengths and implementing our 5x5 offers systemic end-to-end ATIC services: Assurance differentiated strategy for growth.
We are on a good-to-great journey and we firmly believe Leveraging the ever bigger growth in continuous improvement to take Intertek to greater heights.
Our Ever Better operational discipline is making opportunities ahead with our Ever Better Intertek ever stronger, every day.
operational discipline in everything we do, From our strong base, we see opportunities to we are confident in our ability to deliver continuously improve on our value creation levers.
PRODUCT AND SERVICE OFFERING We listen to over 7,000 customers every month and have a deep commitment to building on the strengths of our existing products and services, developing innovative solutions to better support their needs.
Delivering the peace of mind our customers require to power ahead, confidently and safely, is one of the five core pillars of our differentiated strategy for growth.
Our rigorous approach to analysing customer data helps to harness the resulting insights to develop compelling innovations across our ATIC services, with the customer at the heart of everything we do.
SALES MANAGEMENT Making Intertek Ever Better, Ever Stronger means delivering margin-accretive revenue growth.
We have applied a structured approach to selling across five Sales Goals as we apply an Ever Better approach across the organisation to sales planning: Customer Retention, Customer Penetration, ATIC-selling, New Customer Wins and Customer Outsourcing.
8 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT We measure progress against a range of operational metrics and use data intelligence to understand our customer service levels, turnaround times and to create a positive atmosphere where our people feel fully engaged in a safe working environment.
A dedicated focus on quality across every site, every month, throughout the business, underpins our operational and health and safety excellence, ultimately ensuring that our customers receive a superior service.
MARGIN MANAGEMENT Our 5x5 differentiated strategy for growth is based on moving the centre of gravity of the Group towards the high-growth and high-margin sectors in our industry.
We adopt a margin-accretive portfolio management strategy, focused on the most attractive growth areas.
This is complemented by a systemic approach to performance management across all business lines, countries and sites based on leading and lagging indicators.
CASH MANAGEMENT Operating a high-quality earnings model with a disciplined approach to capital allocation, powers our strong cash performance management, ensuring we are able to deliver strong cash conversion from operations and robust free cash flow.
This in turn enables us to seek out attractive new high-return markets, meeting growing customer demand through insight and innovation and driving a business thats Ever Better, Ever Stronger.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 Strategic Report | Ever Better, Ever Stronger Solutions for a safer world INTERTEK DELIVERS A SUPERIOR CUSTOMER SERVICE Since 2015, we have used the Net Always delivering a superior and continuously improving Promoter Score NPS process to listen customer service is central to achieving our vision of to our customers.
being the worlds most trusted Quality Assurance With 7,000 customer interviews conducted every month, it keeps us partner.
It is to ensure this service excellence that we laser-focused on delivering an Ever Better have built an entrepreneurial culture supported by service.
Across all touchpoints this is a positive reinforcement that we are world-class data intelligence and disciplined operations delivering on our TQA Customer Promise.
TOTAL QUALITY ASSURANCE Our TQA value proposition gives our clients the ATIC Advantage, our TIC Expertise plus our Assurance Differentiation.
CUSTOMER CENTRICITY NET PROMOTER SCORE NPS We work with our customers every day to develop and deliver The NPS programme gives us the opportunity to capture the bespoke, customer-focused solutions they need to operate feedback from our customers.
We capture key metrics at every site safely and sustainably.
It is by listening and responding to monthly, which provides us with a rich set of insights.
Upon their needs and challenges that we continuously improve and completion of a project, our TQA experts talk to customers to hear strengthen our TQA proposition, evolving our own business their views on their experience, the solution itself and the quality to be Ever Better, Ever Stronger.
DATA INTELLIGENCE TQA VALUE DELIVERY We use these insights to drive faster and more effective solutions On-time delivery and turnaround time comprise two of the key which have a direct and positive impact on customer satisfaction metrics underpinning our 5x5 strategy and metrics.
We constantly and loyalty, ensuring that all actions are driven by deep customer invite customer feedback on this area, helping us innovate for insight and understanding.
We use the data intelligence to greater speed and enhanced precision to deliver on our TQA consistently deliver our services with zero defects.
10 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report EVER BETTER SERVICE THROUGH INNOVATION A more complex corporate world means In an exciting market with WE HAVE THREE more growth opportunities for Intertek attractive structural drivers CATEGORIES OF as we support our clients through Ever Better solutions and customer service.
and with corporations INNOVATION: We innovate in our markets and business facing ever growing lines through the insights generated BREAKTHROUGH complexity, our Ever Better from our TQA experts and customer Technology that enables feedback through our 7,000 monthly approach to innovation is solutions to create new markets NPS interviews.
supporting our clients to Interteks services, across areas including ADJACENT thrive and is creating Sustainability and CyberSecurity, Expanding into fast-growing growth opportunities Product Assurance and Food Safety, and high-margin areas are mission-critical in reducing risk for Intertek.
and generating sustainable success CORE for our clients.
Building on the strengths of existing products and services Read more about how we are constantly innovating in our Operating Reviews on pages 44 to 51 BREAKTHROUGH Develop new breakthrough products and services ADJACENT Develop new products and services CORE Strengthen existing products and services Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 Strategic Report | Ever Better, Ever Stronger Solutions for a safer world OUR HIGH-QUALITY EARNINGS MODEL Interteks earnings model is based on our value proposition of providing customers in the Products, Trade and Resources sectors across 100 countries with high-quality Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification services.
OUR SERVICES In todays complex and competitive global trading environment, our Total Quality Assurance services help more organisations operate more safely, more effectively and with greater peace of mind, everyday.
OUR SECTORS We focus our operations and expertise on three global sectors: Products, Trade and Resources.
Each consists of Business Lines with similar midto long-term structural growth drivers.
These growth drivers are detailed on page 6 of this report PRODUCTS Focused on ensuring the quality and safety of physical components and products, as well as minimising risk through assessing the operating GDP processes and quality management systems of our customers.
TRADE Three global Business Lines with similar midto long-term GDP structural growth drivers: Caleb Brett Cargo & Analytical Assessment, GROWTH Government & Trade Services and AgriWorld.
RESOURCES Helping customers in the Oil & Gas and Mining industries gain peace of LONG-TERM mind that their projects will proceed on time and their assets will continue GROWTH to operate with a lower risk of technical failure or delay.
12 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 3.
SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION Interteks approach to sustainable value creation is based on the virtuous economics of our business model.
Year after year, their compounding effect supports strong and sustainable value creation for our shareholders.
GDP ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH INVESTMENTS MARGIN IN ATTRACTIVE ACCRETIVE GROWTH AND REVENUE MARGIN SECTORS GROWTH WITH CAPEX INTERTEK M&A VIRTUOUS ECONOMICS DISCIPLINED STRONG FREE CAPITAL CASH FLOW ALLOCATION Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
