Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Other information Glossary ABC1 customers Proportion of customers within UK social EPRA NNNAV EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of groups A, B and C1, defined as members of households whose borrowings, derivative financial instruments and deferred tax on chief earners occupation is professional, higher or intermediate revaluation of investment and development property.
EPRA topped-up NIY EPRA NIY adjusted for the expiration of APMs alternative performance measures Financial measures rent-free periods and other unexpired lease incentives.
of historical or future financial performance, position or cash EPRA vacancy rate The ERV of vacant space divided by total flows of the Group which are not measures defined or specified ERV.
ERV estimated rental value The independent external Annual property income The Groups share of passing rent plus valuers estimate of the Groups share of the current annual the independent external valuers estimate of annual excess market rent of all lettable space after expiry of concessionary turnover rent and sundry income such as from car parks and periods.
Exceptional items Items that in the Directors view are required CACI Provide market research on intus customers and UK-wide to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or location analysis.
Underlying earnings is considered to be a key Debt to assets ratio Net external debt divided by the market measure in understanding the Groups financial performance value of investment and development property including and excludes exceptional items.
investment and development property classified as held for sale.
Headline rent ITZA Annual contracted rent per square foot Diluted figures Reported amounts adjusted to include the after expiry of concessionary periods in terms of Zone A. effects of dilutive potential shares issuable under convertible Interest cover Underlying operating profit divided by the net bonds and employee incentive arrangements.
finance costs excluding the change in fair value of financial EPS earnings per share Profit loss for the period attributable instruments, exceptional finance costs and amortisation of the to owners of intu properties plc divided by the weighted average Metrocentre compound financial instrument.
number of shares in issue during the period.
Interest rate swap A derivative financial instrument enabling EPRA European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of parties to exchange interest rate obligations for a Best Practice Recommendations intended to make financial predetermined period.
These are used by the Group to convert statements of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, floating rate debt to fixed rates.
Like-for-like property Investment property which has been EPRA cost ratios The ratio of administration and operating owned throughout both periods without significant capital costs including and excluding direct vacancy costs divided by expenditure in either period, so that income can be compared on gross rental income, as calculated in accordance with EPRA Best a like-for-like basis.
For the purposes of comparison of capital Practice Recommendations.
values, this will also include assets owned at the previous reporting period end but not throughout the prior period.
EPRA earnings per share EPS adjusted to exclude valuation movements, exceptional items and related tax, as calculated in Long-term lease A lease with a term certain of at least five accordance with EPRA Best Practice Recommendations.
EPRA NAV per share NAV per share calculated on a diluted LTV loan to value The ratio of attributable debt to the market basis adjusted to remove the fair value of derivatives net of value of an investment property.
tax, goodwill resulting from the recognition of deferred tax MSCI Producer of an independent benchmark of property liabilities, and deferred tax on investment and development returns.
property and other investments, as calculated in accordance with EPRA Best Practice Recommendations.
NAV per share diluted, adjusted NAV per share calculated on a diluted basis and adjusted to remove the fair value of EPRA net initial yield NIY Annualised net rent on investment derivatives net of tax, goodwill resulting from the recognition property after deduction of revenue costs such as head rent, of deferred tax liabilities, and deferred tax on investment and running void, service charge after shortfalls, empty rates and development property and other investments.
merchant association contribution expressed as a percentage of the gross market value before deduction of theoretical NAV net asset value per share Net assets attributable to acquisition costs, as calculated in accordance with EPRA Best owners of intu properties plc divided by the number of ordinary Practice Recommendations and as provided by the Groups shares in issue at the year end.
intu properties plc Annual report 2018 173 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 173 Other Information Glossary continued Net external debt Net debt after removing the Metrocentre Scrip Dividend Scheme The Group may offer shareholders the compound financial instrument and including net debt within opportunity to participate in the Scrip Dividend Scheme.
This liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale.
enables participating shareholders to receive shares instead of cash when a Scrip Alternative is offered for a particular dividend.
Net rental income The Groups share of net rents receivable as shown in the income statement, having taken due account of Short-term lease A lease with a term certain of less than non-recoverable costs, bad debt provisions and adjustments to five years.
comply with IFRS including those regarding tenant incentives.
SOCIMI The Spanish equivalent of a Real Estate Investment Nominal equivalent yield Effective annual yield to a purchaser Trust.
from an asset at market value before taking account of notional Tenant or lease incentives Any incentives offered to acquisition costs assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically, incentives are in the reflecting ERV but disregarding potential changes in market form of an initial rent-free period and or a cash contribution to rents, as determined by the Groups independent external fit out the premises.
Under IFRS the value of incentives granted valuers.
to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a Occupancy The ERV of let and under-offer units divided by total straight-line basis over the lease term.
ERV, excluding development and recently completed Topped-up NIY Equivalent to EPRA topped-up NIY see properties.
Units let to tenants in administration and still definition.
trading are treated as let and those no longer trading are treated as un-let.
Total financial return The change in NAV per share diluted, adjusted plus dividends per share paid in the year expressed as Passing rent The Groups share of contracted annual rents a percentage of opening NAV per share diluted, adjusted.
receivable at the balance sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting adjustments made in respect of rent-free periods or Total property return The change in capital value, less any tenant incentives, the reclassification of certain lease payments capital expenditure incurred, plus net income in the year as finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and expenses, and expressed as a percentage of the capital employed opening does not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect capital value plus capital expenditure incurred in the year as of unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as from car calculated by MSCI.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in Underlying EPS EPS adjusted to exclude valuation movements, administration are excluded.
exceptional items and related tax.
PMA Property Market Analysis LLP, a producer of property Underlying figures Amounts described as underlying exclude market research and forecasting.
valuation movements, exceptional items and related tax.
PID Property Income Distribution A dividend, generally subject to UK withholding tax at the basic rate of income tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay to its shareholders from its qualifying rental profits.
Certain classes of shareholder may qualify to receive a PID gross: shareholders should refer to intugroup.
co. uk for further information.
The Group can also pay non-PID dividends which are not subject to UK withholding tax.
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust REITs are internationally recognised property investment vehicles which have now been introduced in many countries around the world.
Each country has its own rules, but the broad intention of REITs is to encourage investment in domestic property by removing tax distortions for investors.
In order for profits of UK property rental businesses to be exempt from corporation tax, a REIT must meet certain ongoing rules and regulations, including the requirement to distribute at least 90 per cent of qualifying rental profits to shareholders.
Withholding tax of 20 per cent is deducted from these PIDs.
Profits from a REITs non-property business remain subject to normal corporation tax.
The Group elected for REIT status in the UK with effect from 1 January 2007.
174 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 174 intu properties plc Annual report 2018
