Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Shareholder information Registered Office Share dealing and following the instructions given 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT Existing UK shareholders may trade to register an email address.
Registered in England & Wales no.
intu properties plc shares through Link South African shareholders may 3685527 Share Dealing Services who provide register to receive email alerts by LEI: 213800JSNTERD5CJZO95 a real-time online, telephone and postal written instruction to the South African dealing service.
Websites Registrar, Link Market Services, by email intugroup.
co. uk Contact details are: info@linkmarketservices.
com registered, shareholders are sent a Notice Telephone within UK 0371 664 04475 of Availability email highlighting that the Registrars calls are charged at the standard annual report or other information is All enquiries concerning shares or geographic rate and will vary by provider: available for viewing on the website.
shareholdings, including notification of lines are open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm change of address, queries regarding loss Monday to Friday of a share certificate and dividend Ireland Lo-call 1 890 946 375 payments should be addressed to: This report contains forward-looking statements outside UK 44 0 371 664 04475 calls regarding the belief or current expectations of For shareholders registered in the UK outside the UK are charged at the intu properties plc, its Directors and other Link Asset Services members of its senior management about intu applicable international rate PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, properties plcs businesses, financial performance and results of operations.
Calls are charged at the statements are not guarantees of future Shareholders with a small number of standard geographic rate and will vary by performance.
Rather, they are based on current shares, which may be uneconomic to sell provider: lines are open 9.00am to views and assumptions and involve known and on a commission basis, may wish to unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, 5.30pm Monday to Friday many of which are outside the control of intu consider donating them to the charity Telephone 44 0 371 664 0300 properties plc and are difficult to predict, that Sharegift registered charity no.
co. uk may cause actual results, performance or Further information can be found on www.
com developments to differ materially from any future Sharegifts website sharegift.
org or by results, performance or developments expressed For shareholders registered in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
South Africa These forward-looking statements speak only Strate Charity Shares Link Market Services as at the date of this report.
Except as required South African shareholders for whom the 13th Floor, 19 Ameshoff Street, by applicable law, intu properties plc makes no representation or warranty in relation to cost of selling their shares would exceed Braamfontein 1709 them and expressly disclaims any obligation to the market value of such shares may wish South Africa update or revise any forward-looking statements to consider donating them to charity.
An Postal address: contained herein to reflect any change in independent non-profit organisation PO Box 4844 intu properties plcs expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions called Strate Charity Shares has been Johannesburg 2000, South Africa or circumstances on which any such statement established to administer this process.
The South African Revenue Service Share price information Any information contained in this report on the SARS has advised Strate Charity price at which shares or other securities in intu The latest information on the intu Shares that the value of any shares properties plc have been bought or sold in the properties plc share price is available on donated may be deducted from taxable past, or on the yield on such shares or other the website intugroup.
securities, should not be relied upon as a guide income, as the scheme is registered to future performance.
Web-based enquiry service for under section 18A of the Income Tax Act.
Copyright intu properties plc March 2019 shareholders For further details, queries and or Shareholders registered in the UK can go donations contact the Strate Share Care to signalshares.
com to obtain details of toll free help line on 0800 202 363 or Designed and produced by their shareholdings and dividends.
The 27 0 11 870 8207 if you are phoning shareholders surname, Investor Code and from outside South Africa or email postcode are required to use this service.
co. za Shareholders may also use this service to Electronic communication amend or change their address and The Company supplies information such dividend mandate details.
as the annual report via its website to Shareholders registered in South Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group, shareholders who have consented to such a CarbonNeutral company, certificated Africa can go to investorcentre.
Shareholders will be to Environmental Management System linkmarketservices.
co. za to obtain notified by email or post when new ISO14001 and holders of FSC chain of details of their shareholdings.
information is available on the website.
Shareholders will need to follow a 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil-based.
Shareholders can at any time revoke a registration process in order to access This document is printed on Claro Bulk, a paper previous instruction in order to receive such information.
Unfortunately, due containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from hard copies of shareholder information.
well-managed, sustainable, FSC certified to South African legal requirements, forests and other controlled sources.
The shareholders may not update records, UK shareholders may register to receive pulp used in this product is bleached using but will be able to view their entire email alerts by logging on to the website of an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
com intu properties plc Annual report 2018 175 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 intu properties plc 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT intugroup.
