Annual financial statements Accounting policies Certain disclosures required under IAS24 associated undertakings are included in the Basis of presentation Related Party Disclosures have been consolidated balance sheet at cost plus These annual financial statements have included in the section marked as audited the post-acquisition changes in the groups been prepared to present the financial in the remuneration report in Investecs share of the net assets of the associate.
position and results of Investec plc and integrated annual report.
The consolidated balance sheet reflects its subsidiaries as if the contractual the associated undertakings net of arrangements which create the dual Basis of consolidation accumulated impairment losses.
listed company DLC structure did not exist and, with this exception and the As discussed above, these annual financial All intergroup balances, transactions exclusion of certain other remuneration statements have been prepared to and unrealised gains or losses within the and related party disclosures, are present the financial position and results group that do not reflect an impairment to prepared in accordance with International of Investecplc and its subsidiaries as if the the asset, are eliminated in full regarding contractual arrangements which create Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as subsidiaries and to the extent of the interest adopted by the European Union EU.
theDLC structure did not exist.
For an understanding of the financial All subsidiaries or structured entities are position, results and cash flows of the consolidated when the group controls an Segmental reporting Investec DLCgroup, the user is referred investee.
The group controls an investee toInvestecs integrated annual report.
An operating segment is a component if it is exposed to, or has rights to variable of the group that engages in business returns from its involvement with the Investec DLC group consists of two activities from which it may earn revenues investee and has the ability to affect those separate legal entities, being Investec and incur expenses, including revenues returns through its power over the investee.
plc and Investec Limited, that operate and expenses that relate to transactions The financial results of subsidiaries are under a DLC structure.
The effect of the with any of the groups other components, included in the consolidated annual financial DLC structure is that Investec plc and whose operating results are reviewed statements of the group from the date on its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and regularly by chief operating decision-makers which control is obtained until the date the itssubsidiaries operate together as a single which include members of the board and group can no longer demonstrate control.
economic entity, with neither assuming a for which discrete financial information dominant role, and accordingly are reported The group performs a reassessment of isavailable.
as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
control whenever there is a change in the The groups segmental reporting is substance of the relationship between These group annual financial statements presented in the form of a business Investec and an investee.
A change in the are prepared in accordance with IFRS, as analysis.
The business analysis is ownership interest of a subsidiary, without adopted by the EU which comply with IFRS presented in terms of the groups three a loss of control, is accounted for as an as issued by the International Accounting principal business divisions, namely, equity transaction.
Investec also holds Standards Board IASB.
At31March 2018, AssetManagement, Wealth & Investment investments, for example private equity IFRS as endorsed by the EU are identical and Specialist Banking.
investments, which give rise to significant, in all material respects to current IFRS but not majority, voting rights.
Assessing Group costs that are disclosed separately applicable to the group, with differences these voting rights and whether Investec largely relate to group brand and marketing only in the effective dates ofcertain controls these entities requires judgement costs and a portion of executive and standards.
support functions which are associated that affects the date at which subsidiaries with group-led activities.
These costs are The group annual financial statements have are consolidated or deconsolidated.
not incurred by the operating divisions and been prepared on a historical cost basis, Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, are necessary to support the operational except for investment properties, availablein which the group exercises significant functioning of the group.
for-sale investments, derivative financial influence over operating and financial instruments, financial assets and financial policies, are treated as interests in liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss Business combinations associated undertakings.
Interests or subject to hedge accounting, and liabilities and goodwill inassociated undertakings are accounted for pension fund surpluses and deficits that for using the equity method from the date Business combinations are accounted for have been measured at fair value.
that significant influence commences using the acquisition method.
Thecost until the date that significant influence The accounting policies adopted by the of an acquisition is measured as the ceases.
In circumstances where interests group are consistent with the prior year.
aggregate of the consideration transferred in associated undertakings or joint venture measured at the acquisition date fair value holdings arise in which the group has no and the amount of any prior non-controlling Presentation of strategic intention, these investments are interest in the acquiree.
For each business information classified as venture capital holdings and combination, the group measures the nonare designated as held at fair value through controlling interest in the acquiree either Disclosure under IFRS 7 Financial profit or loss.
at fair value or at the proportionate share Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 1 of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Presentation of Financial Statements: For equity accounted associates, the Acquisition costs incurred are expensed Capital Disclosures relating to the nature consolidated annual financial statements immediately in the income statement.
and extent of risks have been included include the attributable share of the in sections marked as audited in the risk results and reserves of associated When the group acquires a business, itassesses the financial assets and liabilities management report on pages 45 to 106. undertakings.
The groups interests in 180 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued assumed for appropriate classification and At each balance sheet date foreign currency Share-based payments to the designation in accordance with the items are translated as follows: employees contractual terms, economic circumstances Monetary items other than monetary and pertinent conditions at the acquisition The group engages in equity-settled items that form part of the net date.
This includes the separation of share-based payments in respect of investment in a foreign operation are embedded derivatives in host contracts by services received from employees.
The fair translated using closing rates, with the acquiree.
value of the services received in respect gainsor losses recognised in the of equity-settled share-based payments is If the business combination is achieved in incomestatement determined by reference to the fair value stages, the acquisition date fair value of Exchange differences arising on the groups previously held equity interest of the shares or share options on the monetary items that form part of the date of grant to the employee.
The cost in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value net investment in a foreign operation ateach acquisition date through the of the share-based payment, together incomestatement.
with a corresponding increase in equity, is are determined using closing rates and recognised in the income statement over recognised as a separate component Any contingent consideration to be the period the service conditions of the of equity foreign currency translation transferred by the group will be recognised grant are met with the amount changing reserve upon consolidation and is at fair value at the acquisition date.
according to the number of awards reclassified to the income statement Subsequent changes to the fair value of the expected to vest.
The cumulative expense upon disposal of the net investment contingent consideration, which is deemed recognised for equity-settled transactions to be an asset or liability, will be recognised Non-monetary items that are measured at each reporting date until the vesting in accordance with IAS 39 either in the at historical costs are translated using date reflects the extent to which the income statement or as a change to other the exchange rates ruling at the date of vesting period has expired and the groups comprehensive income.
If the contingent the transaction.
best estimate of the number of equity consideration is classified as equity, it will On consolidation, the results and financial not be remeasured until it is finally settled instruments that will ultimately vest.
position of foreign operations are translated within equity.
Fair value measurements are based on into the presentation currency of the group Goodwill is initially measured at cost, option pricing models, taking into account as follows: being the excess of the aggregate of the the risk-free interest rate, volatility of the Assets and liabilities for each balance consideration transferred and the amount underlying equity instrument, expected recognised for non-controlling interest over sheet presented are translated at dividends and current share prices.
the net identifiable assets acquired and the closing rate at the date of the Where the terms of an equity-settled liabilities assumed.
If this consideration balancesheet award are modified, the minimum expense and amount recognised for non-controlling Income and expense items are recognised in staff costs is the expense interest is less than the fair values of translated at exchange rates ruling at the identifiable net assets acquired, the as if the terms had not been modified.
the date of the transaction discount on acquisition is recognised An additional expense is recognised for directly in the income statement as a gain All resulting exchange differences are any modification which increases the total inthe year of acquisition.
fair value of the share-based payment recognised in other comprehensive arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to income foreign currency translation After initial recognition, goodwill is the employee as measured at the date reserve, which is recognised in the measured at cost less any accumulated ofmodification.
income statement on disposal of the impairment losses.
The group tests goodwill foreign operation acquired in a business combination for impairment annually, irrespective of whether Foreign currency Cash flow items are translated at the an indication of impairment exists and in exchange rates ruling at the date of transactions and foreign accordance with IAS 36. thetransactions.
operations For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business The presentation currency of the group Revenue recognition combination is, from the acquisition date, is Pounds Sterling, being the functional Revenue consists of interest income, fee and allocated to each of the groups cash currency of Investec plc.
commission income, investment income, generating units that are expected to Foreign operations are subsidiaries, trading income arising from customer flow, benefit from the combination.
trading income arising from balance sheet interests in associated undertakings or Where goodwill forms part of a cash management and other trading activities and branches of the group, the activities of generating unit and part of the operation other operating income.
which are based in a functional currency within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill other than that of the reporting entity.
The Revenue is recognised when it can be associated with the operation disposed of functional currency of group entities is reliably measured and it is probable that is included in the carrying amount of the determined based on the primary economic the economic benefits will flow to the entity.
operation when determining the gain or loss environment in which the entity operates.
Revenue related to provision of services on disposal of the operation.
is recognised when the related services Foreign currency transactions are translated Goodwill disposed of in these are performed.
Revenue is measured at into the functional currency of the entity circumstances is measured based on the the fair value of the consideration received in which the transactions arise based on relative values of the operation disposed orreceivable.
rates of exchange ruling at the date of of and the portion of the cash-generating thetransactions.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 181 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued Interest income is recognised in the income Financial assets and liabilities Fair value measurement statement using the effective interest held at fair value through profit Fair value is the price that would be rate method.
Fees charged on lending or loss transactions are included in the effective received to sell an asset or paid to transfer Financial instruments held at fair value yield calculation to the extent that they a liability in an orderly transaction between form an integral part of the effective interest market participants at the measurement through profit or loss include all instruments rate yield, but exclude those fees earned classified as held-for-trading and those date in the principal or, in its absence, for a separately identifiable significant act, instruments designated as held at fair value the most advantageous market to which which are recognised upon completion of through profit or loss.
the group has access at that date.
Fees and commissions charged in fair value of a liability reflects its nonFinancial instruments classified as heldlieu of interest are recognised as income performance risk.
for-trading or designated as held at fair as part ofthe effective interest rate on value through profit or loss are initially When available, the group measures the theunderlying loan.
recorded at fair value on the balance sheet fair value of an instrument using the quoted The effective interest rate method is based with changes in fair value subsequently price in an active market for that instrument.
on the estimated life of the underlying recognised in the income statement.
instrument and where this estimate is not A market is regarded as active if Financial instruments are classified as readily available, the contractual life.
transactions for the asset or liability take trading when they are held with the place with sufficient frequency and volume intention of short-term disposal, held with Fee and commission income includes to provide pricing information on an the intention of generating short-term profit, fees earned from providing advisory ongoing basis.
services as well as portfolio management or are derivatives which are not designated and includes rental income from as part of effective hedges.
Financial If there is no quoted price in an active investment properties.
Investment instruments designated as held at fair market, then the group uses valuation advisory and management fees are valuethrough profit or loss are designated techniques that maximise the use of accrued over the period to which the as such on initial recognition of the relevant observable inputs and minimise the income relates.
Performance fees are instrument and remain in this classification use of unobservable inputs.
The chosen recognised when they become receivable.
valuation technique incorporates all of the No revenue is recognised if there are factors that market participants would take Financial assets and liabilities are significant uncertainties regarding into account in pricing a transaction.
designated as held at fair value through recovery of the consideration due.
profit or loss only if: If an asset or a liability measured at fair Investment income includes income, they eliminate or significantly reduce value has a bid price and an ask price, other than margin from securities held for a measurement or recognition then the group measures assets and long the purpose of generating interest yield, inconsistency that would otherwise dividends and capital appreciation.
positions at a bid price and liabilities and arise from measuring assets or liabilities short positions at an ask price.
Customer flow trading income includes or recognising the gains and losses on income from trading activities arising from The group classifies disclosed fair values them on different bases: or making and facilitating client activities.
according to a hierarchy that reflects the a group of financial assets, financial significance of observable market inputs.
liabilities or both is managed and its Trading income arising from balance sheet management and other trading activities performance is evaluated on a fair value A transfer is made between the hierarchy consists of proprietary trading income and basis in accordance with a documented levels when the inputs have changed other gains or losses arising from balance risk management or investment or there has been a change in valuation strategyand information about the sheet management.
Transfers are deemed to group is provided internally on that Trading profit includes the unrealised profit occur at the end of each semi-annual basis to the groups key management on trading portfolios, which are .
Equity investments received in a contract contains one or more lieu of corporate finance fees are included in Financial instruments embedded derivatives which investment portfolio and valued accordingly.
significantly modifies the cash flows that Financial instruments are initially recognised Dividend income is recognised when would be required by the contract and at their fair value.
For financial assets the groups right to receive payment is not clearly prohibited from separation or financial liabilities not held at fair isestablished.
from the host contract and the group value through profit or loss, transaction has designated the entire hybrid costs that are directly attributable to the Included in other operating income is contract as a financial instrument at fair acquisition or issue of the financial assets incidental rental income, gains on realisation value through profit or loss.
or financial liabilities are included in the of properties other than investment initial measurement.
All other transaction properties which is included in investment Loans and receivables costs are recorded in the income income, operating lease income, income statementimmediately.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative from interests in associated undertakings financial assets with fixed or determinable and revenue from consolidated private Regular way purchase and sales payments that are not quoted in an active equity investments.
Operating costs transactions in respect of financial assets market and exclude the following: associated with these investments that require delivery of a financial instrument are included in operating costs in the within the time frame established by market Those that the group intends to trade in, incomestatement.
convention are recorded at trade date.
which are classified as held-for-trading 182 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued and those that the group designates at All changes in fair value of financial liabilities Available-for-sale financial fair value through profit or loss are recognised in the income statement.
assets Those that the group designates as Available-for-sale financial assets are those Day-one profit or loss available-for-sale which are designated as such or do not When the transaction price differs from Those for which the group may not qualify to be classified as designated at fair the fair value of other observable current recover substantially all of its initial value through profit or loss, held to-maturity, market transactions in the same instrument investment, other than because of or loans and receivables.
They include or based on the valuation technique whose creditdeterioration, which is accounted strategically held equity instruments that are variables include only data from observable for as available-for-sale instruments.
not interests in associated undertakings, markets, the difference between the jointventures or subsidiaries of the group.
Subsequent to initial recognition, transaction price and fair value is recognised Further, certain debt instruments that are held loans and receivables are measured at immediately in the income statement.
at fair value due to being quoted on an active amortised cost, using the effective interest market, which are neither actively traded nor In cases where fair value is determined rate method, less impairment losses.
held-to-maturity instruments, are classified as using data which is not observable, the Theeffective interest rate represents available-for-sale financial assets.
difference between the transaction price the rate that exactly discounts future and model value is only recognised in projected cash flows over the expected Financial assets classified as availablethe income statement when the inputs life of the financial instrument, to the net for-sale are measured at fair value with becomeobservable, or when the carrying amount of the financial instrument.
unrealised gains or losses recognised instrument is derecognised or over the life Included in the calculation of the effective directly in other comprehensive income of the transaction.
interest rate is any discount or premium on in the available-for-sale reserve.
When acquisition and fees that are an integral part the asset is disposed of, the cumulative Impairments of financial assets of the effective interest rate.
gain or loss previously recognised in other held at amortised cost comprehensive income is recognised in the Losses arising from impairment of such income statement.
Interest earned while Financial assets carried at amortised cost investments are recognised in the income holding available-for-sale financial assets are impaired if there is objective evidence statement line impairment losses on loans is reported in the income statement as that the group would not receive cash and advances.
interest income using the effective interest flows according to the original contractual Interest on impaired financial assets is rate.
Dividends earned while holding terms.
Financial assets are assessed for recognised using the rate of interest used available-for-sale financial assets are impairment at each balance sheet date to discount the future cash flows for the recognised in the income statement when and when an indicator of impairment purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
the right to payment has been established.
If an available-for-sale instrument is Securitisation credit The test for impairment is based either determined to be impaired, the respective investment and trading on specific financial assets or collectively cumulative unrealised losses previously on a portfolio of similar homogeneous activities exposures recognised in other comprehensive income assets.
Over and above individual collective The group makes use of securitisation are included in the income statement in the impairments raised at specific portfolio vehicles as a source of finance, as a means period in which the impairment is identified.
levels, the group recognises a collective of risk transfer and to leverage returns impairment allowance at a central level Impairments on available-for-sale equity through the retention of equity tranches within the Specialist Banking business instruments are not reversed once in low default rate portfolios.
The group segment that takes into account macrorecognised in the income statement.
predominantly focuses on the securitisation economic factors, mainly driven by data of lease receivables.
The group also trades related to the prevailing credit markets If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of in structured credit investments.
and which indicate incurred but not a debt instrument classified as  identified losses across the for-sale increases and the increase can be The structured entities are consolidated loanportfolios that is, exposures in all objectively related to an event occurring under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial business segments.
Assets specifically after the impairment loss was recognised Statements when the group has exposure identified asimpaired are excluded from in the income statement, the impairment to or rights to, variable returns from its .
loss is reversed, limited to the impairment involvement with the investee and has the value previously recognised in the ability to affect those returns through its Impairments are credited to an allowance incomestatement.
account which is carried against the carrying value of financial assets.
Interest continues Loans and advances that are originated Financial liabilities to be accrued on the reduced carrying are transferred to structured entities, and Financial liabilities are classified as nonamount based on the original effective the structured entities issue debt securities trading, held-for-trading or designated as interest rate of the asset.
Loans together to external investors to fund the purchase with the associated allowance are written off held at fair value through profit or loss.
When the group when there is no realistic prospect of future consolidates the structured entity, the Non-trading liabilities are recorded at recovery and all collateral has been realised group recognises the assets and liabilities amortised cost applying the effective or transferred to the group.
When the group does interest rate method.
not consolidate the structured entity, the An allowance for impairment is only Held-for-trading liabilities or liabilities securitised assets are derecognised and reversed when there is objective evidence designated as held at fair value through only any position still held by the group in that the credit quality has improved to the profit or loss are measured at fair value.
the structured entity is reflected.
extent that there is reasonable assurance of Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 183 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued timely collection of principal and interest in realised and unrealised profit or losses For qualifying fair value hedges, the change terms of the original contractual agreement.
arising on derivatives are recognised in the in fair value of the hedging instrument income statement as part of trading income is recognised in the income statement.
The impairment is calculated as the other than circumstances in which cash Changes in fair value of the hedged item difference between the carrying value of flow hedging is applied as detailed in the that is attributable to the hedged risk are the asset and the expected cash flows hedge accounting section below.
also recognised in the income statement.
including net expected proceeds on realisation of collateral discounted at Derivative instruments entered into as Qualifying hedges of a net investment in the original effective rate.
Impairments of economic hedges which do not qualify a foreign operation, including a hedge of financial assets held at amortised cost are for hedge accounting and derivatives that a monetary item that is accounted for as recognised in the income statement.
are entered into for trading purposes are part of the net investment.
Changes in treated in the same way as instruments that the fair value of the hedging instrument Derecognition of financial relating to the effective portion of the hedge are held-for-trading.
assets and liabilities are recognised in other comprehensive Credit derivatives are entered into for income while any gains or losses relating A financial asset, or a portion thereof, is trading purposes.
Credit derivatives are to the ineffective portion are recognised in derecognised when the groups rights to initially recognised at their fair values, the income statement.
On disposal of the cash flows have expired or when the group being the transaction price of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of has transferred its rights to cash flows derivative.
Subsequently the derivatives any such gain or loss recorded in other relating to the financial assets and either a are carried at fair value, with movements comprehensive income is reclassified to the the group has transferred substantially all in fair value through profit or loss, income statement.
the risks and rewards associated with the based on the current market price or financial assets or b the group has neither Hedge accounting is discontinued when it remeasured price.
The counterparty risk transferred nor retained substantially all is determined that the instrument ceases from derivative transactions is taken into the risks and rewards associated with the to be highly effective as a hedge: when the account when reporting the fair value of financial assets but has transferred control derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or derivative positions.
The adjustment to of the assets.
exercised: when the hedged item matures the fair valueisknown as the credit value or is sold or repaid: when a forecasted adjustment CVA.
A financial liability is derecognised when transaction is no longer deemed highly it is extinguished, that is when the probable or when the designation as a Hedge accounting obligation isdischarged, cancelled or hedge is revoked.
Whenanexisting financial liability The group applies either fair value or hedge is replacedor modified with substantially of net investments in foreign operations Embedded derivatives different terms, such a replacement or accounting when the transactions meet To the extent that a derivative may be modification is treated as a derecognition the specified hedge accounting criteria.
ofthe original liability and the recognition embedded in a hybrid contract and the To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, of anew liability.
Thedifference in the hybrid contract is not carried at fair value the group ensures that all of the following respective carrying amounts is recognised conditions are met: with changes in fair value recorded in the inthe income statement.
income statement, the embedded derivative At inception of the hedge, the group is separated from the host contract and formally documents the relationship Reclassification of financial accounted for as a standalone derivative if between the hedging instrument s instruments and only if: and hedged item s including the The group may reclassify, in certain rare risk management objectives and the The economic characteristics and circumstances, non-derivative financial strategy in undertaking the hedge risks of the embedded derivative are assets out of the held-for-trading category transaction.
Also at the inception of the not closely related to the economic and into the available-for-sale, loans hedge relationship, a formal assessment characteristics and risks of the and receivables, or held-to-maturity is undertaken to ensure the hedging hostcontract categories.
It may also reclassify, in certain instrument is expected to be highly A separate instrument with the same circumstances, financial instruments out effective in offsetting the designated risk terms as the embedded derivative would of the available-for-sale category and in the hedged item.
A hedge is expected into the loans and receivables category.
meet the definition of a derivative.
to be highly effective if the changes in Reclassifications are recorded at fair fair value attributable to the hedged risk Offsetting of financial assets value at the date of reclassification, which during the period for which the hedge and liabilities becomes the new amortised cost.
isdesignated are expected to offset in Financial assets and liabilities are offset arange of 80% to 125% Derivative instruments when there is both an intention to settle The effectiveness of the hedge can be All derivative instruments of the group on a net basis or simultaneously and reliably measured, i. e. the fair value of are recorded on the balance sheet at acurrently enforceable legal right to the hedged item that are attributable fairvalue.
Positive and negative fair offsetexists.
to the hedged risk and the fair value valuesare reported as assets and ofthe hedging instrument can be Issued debt and equity financial .
reliablymeasured instruments Derivative positions are entered into either The hedge effectiveness is assessed Financial instruments issued by the group for trading purposes or as part of the on an ongoing basis and determined groups asset and liability management are classified as liabilities if they contain a actually to have been highly effective activities to manage exposures to interest contractual obligation to deliver cash or throughout the financial reporting rate and foreign currency risks.
periods for which the hedge wasdesignated.
184 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued Financial instruments issued by the group Financial guarantees Property and equipment are classified as equity where they confer Financial guarantee contracts issued by Property and equipment are recorded on the holder a residual interest in the the group are those contracts that require atcost less accumulated depreciation group, and the group has no obligation a payment to be made to reimburse the andimpairments.
to deliver either cash or another financial holder for a loss it incurs because the asset to the holder.
The components of Cost is the cash equivalent paid or the fair specified debtor fails to make a payment compound issued financial instruments value of the consideration given to acquire when due, in accordance with the terms are accounted for separately with the an asset and includes other expenditures of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees liability component separated first and any that are directly attributable to the residualamount being allocated to the are initially recognised at fair value, acquisition of the asset.
adjusted for the transaction costs that Depreciation is provided on the depreciable aredirectly attributable to the issuance of Equity instruments issued by subsidiaries of amount of each component on a straighttheguarantee.
Investec plc are recorded as non-controlling line basis over the expected useful life of interests on the balance sheet.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the the asset.
liability under each guarantee is measured Equity instruments are initially measured net The depreciable amount related to each at the higher of the amount recognised of directly attributable issue costs.
asset is determined as the difference less cumulative amortisation and the best between the cost and the residual value Treasury shares represent Investec plc estimate of expenditure required to settle of the asset.
The residual value is the shares repurchased by the group which any financial obligation arising as a result estimated amount, net of disposal costs, has not been cancelled.
Treasury shares of the guarantee.
Subsequent to initial that the group would currently obtain from are deducted from shareholders equity measurement, all changes in the balance the disposal of an asset in similar age and and represent the purchase consideration, sheet carrying value are recognised in the condition as expected at the end of its including directly attributable costs.
Wheretreasury shares are subsequently sold or reissued, net proceeds received are Instalment credit, leases and The current and comparative annual included in shareholders equity.
rental agreements depreciation rates for each class of property and equipment is as follows: Dividends on ordinary shares are The determination of whether an recognised as a deduction from equity at arrangement is, or contains a lease Computer and related equipment 20% the earlier of payment date or the date that is based on the substance of the to 33% it is approved by Investec plc shareholders.
arrangement at the inception of the lease.
Motor vehicles 20% to 25% The arrangement is, or contains, a lease Sale and repurchase Furniture and fittings 10% to 20% iffulfilment of the arrangement is dependent agreements including Freehold buildings 2% on the use of a specific asset or assets and securities borrowing and Leasehold property and improvements the arrangement conveys a right to use lending the asset assets, even if that right is not Leasehold improvements depreciation rates are determined by reference to explicitly specified in an arrangement.
Securities sold subject to a commitment the appropriate useful life of its separate to repurchase, at a fixed price or a selling A finance lease is a lease that transfers components, limited to the period of the price plus a lenders return, remain on substantially all of the risks and rewards lease.
Leasehold property depreciation rates balance sheet.
Proceeds received are are determined by reference to the period of incidental to ownership of an asset.
recorded as a liability on balance sheet the lease.
Anoperating lease is a lease other than a under repurchase agreements and cash finance lease.
No depreciation is provided on collateral on securities lent.
However, similar to other that are purchased under a commitment Where classified as a finance lease, property-related assets, it is subject to to resell the securities at a future date amounts outstanding on these contracts, impairmenttesting when an indication of are not recognised on the balance sheet.
net of unearned finance charges, are impairment exists.
The consideration paid is recognised included in loans and advances where the as an asset under reverse repurchase Routine maintenance and service costs for group is the lessor and included in liabilities agreements and cash collateral on group assets are expensed as incurred.
where the group is the lessee.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised charges on finance leases and instalment if it is probable that future economic The difference between the sale and credit transactions are credited or debited benefits associated with the item will flow to repurchase prices is treated as interest to the income statement in proportion to expense and is accrued over the life the group.
the capital balances outstanding at the rate of the agreement using the effective implicit in the agreement.
Investment properties Where classified as operating leases, Securities borrowing transactions that are rentals payable receivable are charged Properties held for capital appreciation or not cash collateralised are not included on credited in the income statement on a rental yield are classified as investment the balance sheet.
Securities lending and straight-line basis over the lease term.
Investment properties are borrowing transactions which are cash Contingent rentals are accrued to the carried at fair value, with fair value gains or collateralised are accounted for in the same losses recognised in the income statement income statement when incurred.
manner as securities sold or purchased in investment income.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 185 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued Fair value of investment properties are is the current rate of return on an AA Taxation and deferred calculated by taking into account the corporate bond at the balance sheet date taxation expected rental stream associated of equivalent term and currency to the with the property, and is supported by liabilities.
The extent to which the schemes Current taxation payable is provided for marketevidence.
based on the amount expected to be assets exceed or fall short of the schemes liabilities is shown as a surplus to the payable on taxable profit at rates that are enacted or substantively enacted and extent that it is considered recoverable or Trading properties applicable to the relevant period.
deficit in the balance sheet.
Trading properties are carried at the lower Deferred taxation is provided on temporary Actuarial gains and losses related to of cost and net realisable value.
differences between the carrying amount of the defined benefit asset or liability are an asset or liability in the balance sheet and recognised immediately directly in other Intangible assets its tax base, except where such temporary comprehensive income.
differences arise from: Intangible assets are recorded at cost The group has no liabilities for other less accumulated amortisation and The initial recognition of goodwill postretirement benefits.
Intangible assets with a finite The initial recognition of an asset or life, are amortised over the useful economic liability in a transaction which is not a Borrowing costs life currently three to twenty years on business combination and at the time a straight line basis.
The depreciable Borrowing costs that are directly of the transaction has no effect on the amount related to each intangible asset is attributable to property developments income statement or taxable profit determined as the difference between the which take a substantial period of time to cost and the residual value of the asset.
In respect of temporary differences develop are capitalised.
associated with the investments in subsidiaries and interests in associated Impairment of Provisions, contingent undertakings, where the timing of the non-financial assets reversal of the temporary differences can liabilities and contingent be controlled and it is probable that the At each balance sheet date, the group assets temporary differences will not reverse in reviews the carrying value of non-financial the foreseeable future.
assets, other than investment properties for Provisions are recognised when the indication of impairment.
The recoverable group has a present obligation legal or Deferred taxation assets or liabilities are amount, being the higher of fair value constructive as a result of a past event: measured using the tax rates that have less cost of disposal and value in use, is it is probable that an outflow of resources been enacted or substantively enacted at determined for any assets for which an embodying economic benefits will be the balance sheet date.
indication of impairment is identified.
If the required to settle the obligation and a reliable recoverable amount of an asset is less than Deferred taxation assets are recognised estimate can be made of the amount of its carrying value, the carrying value of the to the extent that it is probable that future the obligation.
The expense relating to asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
taxable profit will be available against which a provision is presented in the income the deferred taxation assets can be utilised.
statement net of any reimbursement.
Impairment losses are recognised as Contingent assets and contingent liabilities an expense in the income statement in Items recognised directly in other are not recognised on balance sheet.
the period in which they are identified.
comprehensive income are net of related Reversals of impairment losses are current and deferred taxation.
recognised in income in the period in which Standards and the reversals are identified, to the extent interpretations issued but that the carrying value of the asset does not Employee benefits exceed the amount that would have been not yet effective The group operates various defined calculated without impairment.
contribution schemes and two closed Standards and interpretations issued but defined benefit schemes.
Trust and fiduciary In respect of the defined contribution The following standards and activities scheme, all employer contributions are interpretations, which have been issued but The group acts as a trustee or in other charged to the income statement as are not yet effective, are applicable to the fiduciary capacities that result in the incurred, in accordance with the rules group.
These standards and interpretations holding, placing or managing of assets for of the scheme, and included under have not been applied in these annual the account of and at the risk of clients.
The group intends to comply with these standards from the As these are not assets of the group, they The assets of the defined benefit schemes effective dates.
are not recognised on the balance sheet are measured at their market value at the but are included at market value as part of balance sheet date and the liabilities of the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments assets under administration.
schemes are measured using the projected IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in unit credit method.
The discount rate July 2014 and will replace certainkey used to measure the schemes liabilities 186 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued elements of IAS 39.
Themandatory IFRS 9 also includes guidance on Investec plc hedge accounting.
The general hedge effective date for IFRS9 is for annual Balance sheet impairment periods beginning on or after 1 January accounting requirements aim to simplify hedge accounting, creating a stronger 2018 with early adoption permitted.
allowance and provisions link with risk management strategy Total balance sheet impairment IFRS 9 was endorsed by the European and permitting hedge accounting to be allowance and provisions are expected Union in November 2016.
The two key applied to a greater variety of hedging to increase by approximately 106 elements that would impact the groups instruments and risks.
The standard does million from 158 million as at 31 March accounting policies include: not address macro-hedge accounting 2018 to approximately 264 million strategies, which are being considered in classification and measurement of as at 1April2018.
This is driven by a separate project.
To remove the risk of financial assets and financial liabilities: an increase in legacy impairments of any conflict between existing macro-hedge the standard requires that all financial approximately 57 million and an increase accounting practice and the new general assets be classified as either held at fair in ongoing impairments of approximately hedge accounting requirements, IFRS 9 value through profit or loss, fair value 70million, partially offset by a reduction includes an accounting policy choice to through other comprehensive income of approximately 21 million as a result of remain with IAS 39 hedge accounting.
The amortised cost changes in classification and measurement The group intends to continue applying classification is only permitted where it is of the groups financial assets to fair value.
held within a business model where the IAS 39s hedge accounting, although it will The increase in impairment allowance and underlying cash flows are held in order to implement the amended IFRS 7 hedge provisions is expected to reduce the CET1 accounting disclosure requirements, until ratio by approximately 66bps on a fully collect contractual cash flows and that loaded basis, or approximately 3bps on a the cash flows arise solely from payment the macro-hedge accounting project has day one impact transitional basis.
which are held within a business model On 12 October 2017, the IASB published Changes in classification whose objective is achieved by both an amendment to IFRS 9, relating to and measurement of certain collecting contractual cash flows and prepayment features with negative financial assets selling financial assets and whose compensation: this amendment is effective contractual cash flows represent solely In addition, changes in classification from 1 January 2019 with early application payments of principal and interest will and measurement to fair value of certain permitted, however has yet to be endorsed be measured at fair value through other of the groups other financial assets is by the EU.
This amendment allows financial comprehensive income.
The standard expected to result in a decrease to equity assets with such features to be measured further provides that gains or losses on of approximately 11 million post taxation, at amortised cost or fair value through assets held at fair value are recognised with an approximate 7bps impact on the other comprehensive income provided in the income statement unless the entity CET 1 ratio.
the SPPI solely payments of principal and has elected to recognise gains or losses interest criteria in IFRS 9 are otherwise on non-trading equity investments directly Reclassification of met.
In addition the amendment to IFRS9 through other comprehensive income.
subordinated liabilities to clarifies that a financial asset passes the With reference to financial liabilities held fairvalue SPPI criterion regardless of the event at fair value, the standard requires that As a result of the adoption of IFRS 9 or circumstance that cause the early changes to fair value attributable to own Investec plc has elected to designate its credit risk are recognised directly in other termination of the contract, and irrespective subordinated liabilities to fair value.
The comprehensive income without recycling of which party pays or receives reasonable interest rate portion of the subordinated through the income statement: compensation for the early termination of debt is expected to reduce equity by the contract.
The groups loans with such impairment methodology: the key change approximately 48 million post taxation prepayment features are present in some is related to a shift from an incurred with an approximate 37bps impact on the fixed rate loans, and are considered to meet loss to an expected loss impairment day one transitional CET 1 ratio which will the criteria for amortised cost under IFRS9.
At initial recognition an come back into retained earnings over This is because the prepayment features allowance or provision in the case of the duration of the remaining term of the within these loans are consistent with the commitments and guarantees is required instrument maturing February 2022.
In solely payments of principal and interest for expected credit losses ECL resulting addition, an amount of approximately from default events that are possible criteria if the prepayment feature substantially 55million post taxation has been within the next 12 months 12-month represents unpaid amounts of principal and transferred to an own credit reserve which interest and reasonable compensation for ECL.
In the event of a significant increase does not have an impact on capital ratios.
in credit risk since initial recognition, early termination of the contract.
Taken together, the adoption of IFRS 9 is IFRS 9 requires the recognition of lifetime expected to result in a decrease in Investec expected credit losses.
Impairment Transitional impact measurement will involve increased plcs transitional CET 1 ratio of approximately complexity and significant judgements 47bps from 11.0% to approximately 10.5%, IFRS 9 is effective and will be implemented on areas such as the estimation of ahead of the groups target and in excess of by the group from 1 April 2018.
The probabilities of default, loss given default, minimum regulatory requirements.
Investec group will provide its detailed transitional unbiased future economic scenarios, plc confirmed to the PRA that it will use the disclosures when it publishes its annual estimation ofexpected lives, estimation transitional arrangements to absorb the full report for the year ended 31 March 2018 of exposures at default and assessing impact permissible of IFRS 9 in regulatory on 29 June 2018. whether a significant increase in credit capital calculations.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 187 Annual financial statements Accounting policies continued reinsurance contracts it holds.
It applies to The nature of any assumptions IFRS 15 Revenue from made, when calculating the carrying all types of insurance contracts, regardless Contracts with Customers amounts relating to any estimated tax of the type of entities that issue them, as In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 which could be payable as a result of well as to certain guarantees and financial Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
decisions by tax authorities in respect instruments with discretionary participation The standard is effective for annual periods of any such transactions and events features.
A few scope exceptions will beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with whose treatment for tax purposes, is apply.
The IFRS 17 is effective from uncertain.
In making any estimates, early application permitted.
The standard 1January2021, and the group is managements judgement would be was endorsed by the European Union in considering its impact.
based on various factors, including any September 2016. such transactions and events whose IFRS 15 provides a principles-based treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
Key management approach for revenue recognition and In making any estimates, managements assumptions introduces the concept of recognising judgement has been based on various revenue for obligations as they are satisfied.
factors, including: In preparation of the annual financial Although the standard should be applied statements, the group makes estimations the current status of tax audits retrospectively, with certain practical and applies judgement that could affect the andenquiries: reported amount of assets and liabilities expedients available, the groups current the current status of discussions within the next financial year.
Key areas in measurement and recognition principles andnegotiations with the relevant which judgement is applied include: are aligned to the standard and there is taxauthorities: no impact to the measurement principles Valuation of unlisted investments in the results of any previous claims: currently applied.
The impact of the the private equity, direct investments and disclosure requirements of the standard portfolios and embedded derivatives.
any changes to the relevant tax is currently being finalised, however, no Key valuation inputs are based on the environments.
most relevant observable market inputs, Where appropriate, the group adjusted where necessary for factors IFRS 16 Leases has utilised expert external advice that specifically apply to the individual as wellas experience of similar investments and recognising market In January 2016, the IASB issued situationselsewhere in making any volatility IFRS 16Leases.
The standard is effective suchprovisions.
for annual periods beginning on or after The determination of impairments against 1January 2019 and is expected to be assets that are carried at amortised cost Determination of interest income and and impairments relating to availableendorsed by the European Union in 2017. interest expense using the effective for-sale financial assets involves the IFRS 16 results in lessees accounting interest rate method involves assessment of future cash flows which judgement in determining the timing for most leases within the scope of the is judgemental in nature and extent of future cash flows.
standard in a manner similar to the way in which finance leases are currently The groups income tax charge and accounted for under IAS 17 Leases.
balance sheet provision are judgemental Lessees will recognise a right of use in nature.
This arises from certain transactions for which the ultimate tax asset and a corresponding financial treatment can only be determined by liability on the balance sheet.
The asset final resolution with the relevant local tax will be amortised over the period of the authorities.
The group has recognised in lease and the financial liability measured its current tax provision certain amounts at amortised cost.
Lessor accounting in respect of taxation that involve a remains substantially the same as in IAS 17. degree of estimation and uncertainty The group is currently assessing the impact where the tax treatment cannot finally of this standard but it is not practicable be determined until a resolution has to quantify the effect as at the date of the been reached by the relevant tax publication of these financial statements.
The carrying amount of this provision is sensitive to the resolution of All other standards and interpretations issues, which is often dependent on the issued but not yet effective are not timetable and progress of discussion expected to have a material impact on and negotiations with the relevant thegroup.
tax authorities, arbitration process IFRS 17 Insurance contracts and legal proceedings in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the group IFRS 17 Insurance contracts was issued operates.
Issues can take many years in May 2017, and sets out the requirements to resolve and assumptions on the likely that an entity should apply in accounting outcome would therefore have to be for insurance contracts it issues and made by the group 188 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018
