Annual financial statements Directors responsibility statement The following statement, which should be The group audit committees, together Approval of annual read in conjunction with the auditors report with Internal Audit, play an integral financial statements set out on pages 172 to 173, is made with role in matters relating to financial and a view to distinguishing for stakeholders the internal control, accounting policies, The directors report and the respective responsibilities of the directors reporting and disclosure.
annual financial statements of and of the external auditors in relation to To the best of our knowledge and belief, thecompany, which appear on the combined consolidated annual financial based on the above, the directors are pages 256to264, were approved statements.
satisfied that no material breakdown in the by the board of directors on operation of the system of internal control 12June2018.
The directors are responsible for the and procedures has occurred during the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the year under review.
combined consolidated annual financial The directors are responsible for the statements that fairly present the state The group consistently adopts appropriate maintenance and integrity of the corporate of affairs of the group at the end of the and recognised accounting policies and financial information included on financial year and the net income and cash and these are supported by reasonable the companies website.
Legislation in flows for the year, and other information judgements and estimates on a consistent the UK governing the preparation and contained in thisreport.
basis and provide additional disclosures dissemination of the annual financial when compliance with the specific To enable the directors to meet these statements may differ from legislation in requirements in International Financial responsibilities: other jurisdictions.
Reporting Standards IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact Signed on behalf of the board The board and management set of particular transactions, other events and standards and management implements conditions on the groups financial position systems of internal controls and and financial performance.
accounting and information systems aimed at providing reasonable The combined consolidated annual financial assurance that assets are safeguarded statements of the companies and the group Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor and the risk of fraud, error or loss is have been prepared in accordance with Chief executive officer Managing director reduced in a cost-effective manner.
the respective Companies Acts of the UK 15 June 2018 These controls, contained in established and South Africa and comply with IFRS and policies and procedures, include the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and comply proper delegation of responsibilities with IFRS 101 in respect of Investec plc and authorities within a clearly defined parent company accounts.
framework, effective accounting The directors are of the opinion, based procedures and adequate segregation on their knowledge of the companies, of duties key processes in operation and enquiries The groups Internal Audit function, that adequate resources exist to support which operates unimpeded and the companies on a going concern basis independently from operational over the next year.
These annual financial management, and has unrestricted statements have been prepared on that access to the group audit committee, basis.
appraises and, when necessary, It is the responsibility of the external recommends improvements in the auditors to report on the combined system of internal controls and consolidated annual financial statements.
accounting practices, based on audit Their reports to the members of the plans that take cognisance of the companies are set out on pages 172 to relative degrees of risk of each function 173.
As far as the directors are aware, or aspect of the business thereis no relevant audit information of which the external auditors are unaware.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 165
