IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Alternative Performance Measures APM continued Calculation Reference for 2018 2017 APM reconciliation Definition and purpose m m Net portfolio Note 15 Net portfolio gains are defined as the Change in 50.4 49.0 gains losses movement in the value of holdings in the fair value of portfolio due to share price movements equity and debt or impairments in value, gains or losses on investments realisation of investments and gains or losses Gain on disposal 2.0 0.1 on disposals of subsidiaries.
of equity The measure shows a summary of the investments income statement gains and losses which Gain on disposal 45.1 are directly attributable to the portfolio, of subsidiary which is a headline measure for the Groups Net portfolio 48.4 94.2 performance.
This is a key driver of the losses gains Return on Hard NAV which is a performance metric for directors and employees incentives.
Net Financial Net overheads are defined as the Groups Other income 9.9 6.1 overheads Review core overheads less operating income.
The Other 41.8 30.8 measure reflects the Groups controllable administrative net operating cash-equivalent central expenses see cost base and is used as a performance statement of metric in the Groups annual incentive comprehensive scheme.
Core overheads exclude items such income as share-based payments, amortisation of intangibles and consolidated portfolio Excluding: company costs Administrative 0.6 expenses Istesso Limited Administrative 2.6 2.1 expenses consolidated portfolio companies IFRS 3 charge 3.3 4.4 in respect of acquisition of subsidiary Net overheads 26.0 17.6 Restated following finalisation of provisional acquisition accounting in respect of Touchstone acquisition see note 26 28.
Post Balance Sheet Events On 28 February 2019, the Group completed an agreement with Imperial College London in respect of the commercialisation activities undertaken by the Groups technology transfer office TTO team Imperial Innovations on behalf of Imperial College.
This agreement sees the transfer of future commercialisation operations of the TTO, including the majority of the TTO employees, to the College.
The Group retains its existing licenses and patents developed prior to the transfer.
On 22 March 2019, the Group signed a lease surrender agreement in respect of the 7 Air Street, the former Touchstone head office.
This surrender relieves the Group of all future obligations in respect of the office.
