OUR FINANCIALS A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the groups regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
The group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Whilst the group is subject to many other laws and regulations, we did not identify any others where the consequences of noncompliance alone could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing noncompliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by the company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report, and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed with the company, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Jonathan Mills Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 25 March 2019 133 2018-IP Group-AR.
