OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Report of the directors Significant agreements The directors present their report together with the audited The Group has entered into various agreements to form financial statements for IP Group plc and its subsidiaries for partnerships or collaborations with 15 UK universities, the year ended 31December 2018. six US universities and nine universities in Australasia.
In addition, various entities within the Group have entered Corporate governance statement into agreements to act as general partner and investment manager to three limited partnerships.
Further details can be Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate found in the strategic report and in the notes to the financial governance statement can be found in the Corporate statements.
Governance Statement on pages 70 to 89 and is incorporated into this directors report by reference.
Share capital and related matters Results and dividends Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights attaching to the Companys shares are set out in During the period, the Group made an overall loss after note 11 page 155 to the consolidated financial statements.
taxation for the year ended 31December 2018 of 293.8m There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding or 2017: 53.4m profit.
The directors do not recommend the on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the payment of a dividend 2017: nil.
general provisions of the Companys Articles of Association Directors the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The names of directors who currently hold office or did so At the last Annual General Meeting of the Company held during 2018 are as follows: on 18June 2018 the 2018 AGM, authority was given to the directors pursuant to the relevant provisions of Executive directors the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares and grant rights Alan Aubrey over securities in the Company up to a maximum amount David Baynes equivalent to approximately one-third of the issued ordinary Greg Smith share capital on 14May 2018 at any time up to the earlier of Mike Townend the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company and 1August 2019.
In addition, at the 2018 Non-executive directors AGM, the directors were also given authority effective for the same period as the aforementioned authority to allot Mike Humphrey Chairman resigned on 31October 2018 shares and grant rights over securities in the Company up to Sir Douglas Flint Chairman appointed as a non-executive a maximum of approximately two-thirds of the total ordinary director with effect from 17September 2018 and as Chairman share capital in issue on 14May 2018 in connection with an with effect from 1November 2018 offer by way of a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
The directors Professor David Begg propose to renew both of these authorities at the Companys Jonathan Brooks next AGM to be held on 28May 2019.
The authorities being Heejae Chae appointed with effect from 3May 2018 sought are in accordance with guidance issued by the Professor Lynn Gladden resigned on 30September 2018 Investment Association.
Dr Elaine Sullivan Details of the interests of directors in the share capital of the A further special resolution passed at the 2018 AGM granted Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the on page 108.
Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006, both: i up to a Principal risks and uncertainties and maximum of approximately two-thirds of the total ordinary share capital in issue on 14May 2018 in connection with a financial instruments fully pre-emptive rights issue: and ii up to a maximum of The Group, through its operations, is exposed to a number of approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal value of the risks.
The Groups risk management objectives and policies shares in issue on 14May 2018, each authority exercisable at are described on pages 46 to 55 and in the Corporate any time up to the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM Governance report on pages 86 and 87.
Further information of the Company and 1August 2019.
The directors will seek to on the Groups financial risk management objectives and renew these authorities for a similar period at the next AGM policies, including those in relation to credit risk, liquidity to be held on 28May 2019. risk and market risk, is provided in note 2 page 146 to the consolidated financial statements, along with further information on the Groups use of financial instruments.
indd 121 16 04 2019 15:13:39 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Under Part 18, Chapter 5 of the Companies Act 2006, the Regulation Company has the power to purchase its own shares.
At the Top Technology Ventures Limited and Parkwalk Advisors Ltd, 2018 AGM, a special resolution was passed which granted both 100%-owned subsidiaries of the Group, are authorised the directors authority to make market purchases of the and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority under Companys shares pursuant to these provisions of the the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
In Australia, Companies Act 2006 up to a maximum of approximately the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary IP2IPO Australia 10% of the Companys issued share capital on 14May 2018 Management Pty Ltd is authorised and regulated by the provided that the authority granted set a minimum and Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
maximum price at which purchases can be made and is exercisable at any time up to the earlier of the conclusion of Post balance sheet events the next AGM and 1August 2019.
This authority has not been Material events occurring since the balance sheet date used during the year.
The directors will seek to renew the are disclosed in the Strategic report and in note 28 to the authority within similar parameters and for a similar period at Groups financial statements.
the next AGM to be held on 28May 2019.
Disclosure of information to auditor Articles of Association Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval The Companys Articles may be amended by a special of this Annual Report confirms that: resolution of the shareholders.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Substantial shareholders information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: As at 22March 2019, the Company had been advised of the and following shareholders with interests of 3% or more in its the director has taken all steps that he she ought to have ordinary share capital.
Other than as shown, so far as the taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware Company and its Directors are aware, no other person of any relevant audit information and to establish that the holds or is beneficially interested in a disclosable interest in Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Shareholder % accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Invesco Asset Management Limited 26.82 Woodford Investment Management LLP 19.99 Appointment of auditor Lansdowne Partners 10.86 A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP, together with a Imperial College of Science, Technology and resolution to authorise the directors to determine their Medicine 5.18 remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM to be held on Baillie Gifford 4.03 28May 2019.
Political donations On behalf of the Board The Group did not make any political donations during 2018.
Angela Leach Company Secretary Corporate and social responsibility Details on the Groups policies, activities and aims with 25March 2019 regard to its corporate and social responsibilities, including details of its greenhouse gas emissions, are included in the Sustainability section on pages 60 to 65.
Directors indemnity and liability insurance During the year, the Company has maintained liability insurance in respect of its directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles provide that, to the extent that the proceeds of any liability insurance are insufficient to meet any liability in full, every director is entitled to be indemnified out of the funds of the Company against any liabilities incurred in the execution or discharge of his or her powers or duties.
A copy of the indemnity is available for inspection as required by the Companies Act 2006.
indd 122 16 04 2019 15:13:39 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES In respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance and the Group and parent Company financial statements in statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and integrity of the corporate and financial information included parent Company financial statements for each financial on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group preparation and dissemination of financial statements may financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Responsibility statement of the directors Accounting Standards.
in respect of the annual financial report Under company law the directors must not approve the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position statements, the directors are required to: and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Directors report includes a fair review of the consistently: development and performance of the business and the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and position of the issuer and the undertakings included prudent: in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a for the Group financial statements, state whether they description of the principal risks and uncertainties that have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted they face.
by the EU: We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a for the parent Company financial statements, state whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups been followed, subject to any material departures position and performance, business model and strategy.
disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements: ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD assess the Group and parent Companys ability to Sir Douglas Flint continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, Chairman matters related to going concern: and 25March 2019 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
