Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 44 J Sainsbury plc: Operating Board Mike Coupe 57 Kevin OByrne 53 John Rogers 49 Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos See page 42.
Tim Fallowfield Peter Griffiths, OBE Phil Jordan Company Secretary & Corporate Services CEO of Sainsburys Bank Group Chief Information Officer Director Date of appointment: May 2014.
Skills and experience: Peter was appointed Skills and experience: Phil joined the Board Skills and experience: Tim joined Sainsburys CEO of Sainsburys Bank in November 2012 and in January 2018 and brings a wealth of experience in 2001 as Company Secretary and joined the joined the Operating Board in May 2014.
Prior to both in digital and legacy business & systems Operating Board in September 2004.
In addition to joining Sainsburys he was Group Chief Executive transformation.
Most recently he was Global Chief his role as Company Secretary, Tim is responsible of Principality, the largest building society in Information Officer at Telefonica overseeing Digital for the Corporate Services Division comprising Wales, growing it from the 13th largest building Transformation and Information Technology and Legal Services, Data Governance, Safety, society in the UK to the 7th, during his decade in prior to that was Chief Information Officer for Shareholder Services, Insurance and Central charge.
He previously worked for NatWest, and Vodafone UK Ireland.
Phil brings a fresh, global Security.
He chairs the Group Safety Committee was Chief Operating Officer at Morgan Chambers perspective on technology to the Operating Board and the Data Governance Committee.
He is former Chairman of the CBI Wales with the movement from telecommunications to Sainsburys from Exel plc, the global logistics and the Building Societies Association and is a retail and into the Sainsburys Group.
company, where he was Company Secretary Fellow of UWIC and The Chartered Institute of Phil has worked as a Non-Executive Advisor on and Head of Legal Services.
He began his career Management.
Peter was awarded an OBE in the Technology in the Investment & Retail Banking at the international law firm Clifford Chance and Queens Birthday Honours 2010, in recognition of sector and is a member of many global IT industry is a qualified solicitor.
Tim is Chairman of the his support for the Financial Services industry.
Disability Confident Business Leaders Group which works with Government in shaping the disability employment agenda and in raising awareness of the benefits of employing disabled people.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 45 Paul Mills-Hicks Angie Risley Simon Roberts Food Commercial Director Group HR Director Retail & Operations Director Date of appointment: May 2014.
Skills and experience: Paul joined the Skills and experience: Angie was appointed Skills and experience: Simon joined Operating Board in May 2014 as Food Commercial Group HR Director and a member of the Operating Sainsburys and the Operating Board in July Director having spent over ten years at Sainsburys.
Board in January 2013 with responsibility for 2017 as Retail & Operations Director.
In his He was closely involved in the formation and human resources.
In September 2017, she stepped previous roles he was Executive Vice President execution of the Making Sainsburys Great Again down from her position as Non-Executive Director of Walgreens Boots Alliance, and President strategy.
Following this he held a variety of roles and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Boots with responsibility for commercial in commercial, strategy and finance, most of Serco plc.
Angie is a Non-Executive Director and retail operations across the UK and recently as Business Unit Director for Grocery.
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ireland.
Prior to Boots, Simon was at Marks Prior to Sainsburys, Paul was European Controller of Smith & Nephew plc.
She is also a Director of and Spencer plc, where he held operational at Marks and Spencer Group plc and a Director at Sainsburys Bank plc.
Angie was most recently and customer leadership roles across stores, UBS Warburg.
Group HR Director at Lloyds Banking Group and divisions and central operations.
Simon is also prior to this an Executive Director of Whitbread the Non-Executive Chairman at the Institute plc with responsibility for HR and Corporate of Customer Service.
She was also a member of the Low Pay Commission for six years.
