Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 17 Priority 4 Continue cost savings and maintain balance sheet strength lower than the average capital expenditure in the previous five years of 793 million.
Our Technology and digital innovations are helping us pension deficit has reduced by 589 million to improve systems across our business, increasing from 850 million last year to 261 million at the year end.
In the medium term our increased focus on cash will deliver adjusted net debt to adjusted creating efficiencies to improve service for EBITDAR treating perpetual securities as We have made fundamental our customers.
debt of less than three times and fixed changes to our operations charge above three times.
to be more efficient and We continue to maintain a strong balance 1 customer-focused.
The Group has financing facilities of 4.1 billion, sheet.
We have reduced net debt by of which only 2.5 billion was drawn down at 113 million to 1,364 million and we are Technology and digital innovations are also year end.
The Group refinanced its syndicated targeting to reduce net debt by a further helping us to improve systems across our committed revolving credit facility.
The reduction is a business, increasing efficiency and improving revised facility of 1.45 billion has three, four result of continued strong cash generation productivity.
Through these operational and five-year tranches, with an initial final from retail operations, further working capital efficiencies, we have exceeded our three-year maturity for the longer dated tranche of improvements and the acquisition of Nectar.
cost saving target and saved 540 million.
The refinancing is expected to This was partly offset by capital expenditure, We delivered cost savings of 185 million in drive annual interest savings of approximately capital injections into Sainsburys Bank, 2017 18, 40 million above our target.
adverse movements on US dollar derivatives the next three years to 2020 21 we will deliver and continued dividend payments.
Group a minimum of 500 million of cost savings.
We expect net finance costs of around core retail capital expenditure at 495 million We plan to deliver 200 million of these 100 million in 2018 19 following final was lower than last year even with the savings in 2018 19 by simplifying our store repayment of the secured loan due in 2018. addition of a full year of Argos core retail management structures and operations and capital expenditure.
It remains significantly 1 A s defined in the APMs.
Our strategy in action Like-for-like transactions Due to structural changes in the market, Cost savings customers have more choice than ever We have exceeded our original threewhen shopping for groceries.
We will year 500 million cost saving target continue to deliver our strategy of offering by 40 million.
We will deliver further customers innovative, differentiated savings of a minimum of 500 million product ranges, great quality and fair over the next three years to 2020 21. prices.
We will also continue to make We have reduced our net debt by over it easy for customers to shop with us 113 million to 1,364 million and we whenever and wherever they choose.
are targeting to reduce net debt by a further 100 million in 2018 19.
Definition: Year-on-year growth in transactions from stores that have been open for at least a year.
