Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Financial Statements J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 181 Alternative performance measures In the reporting of financial information, the Directors use various APMs which they believe provide additional useful information for understanding the financial performance and financial health of the Group.
These APMs should be considered in addition to, and are not intended to be a substitute for IFRS measurements.
As they are not defined by International Financial Reporting Standards, they may not be directly comparable with other companies who use similar measures.
All of the following APMs relate to the current periods results and comparative periods where provided.
Closest equivalent APM IFRS measure Definition Purpose Reconciliation Income statement Like-for-like sales No direct Year-on-year growth in sales including The reported retail like-for-like sales growth of 1.3 per cent is based equivalent VAT, excluding fuel, excluding Financial on a combination of Sainsburys like-for-like sales and Argos likeServices, for stores that have been open for-like sales for the 52 weeks to 10 March 2018, i. e. assuming that for more than one year.
The relocation Argos sales are in the base.
Additionally, the impact of the disposal of Argos stores into Sainsburys of Pharmacy is not treated as like-for-like.
See movements below: supermarkets are classified as new 2018 2017 space, while the host supermarket is classified as like-for-like.
The measure Underlying retail like-for-like 1.3% is used widely in the retail industry exc.
fuel, inc. Argos in base as an indicator of current trading Underlying net new space impact exc.
0.3% 0.8% performance and is useful when Pharmacy, inc. Argos in base comparing growth between retailers Underlying total retail sales growth 1.6% 0.8% that have different profiles of exc.
Pharmacy, inc. Argos in base expansion, disposals and closures.
Argos consolidation & Pharmacy impact 8.4% 13.3% Underlying total retail sales growth 10.0% 14.1% exc.
fuel, inc. Pharmacy impact, exc.
Argos in base Fuel impact 1.2 % 1.5 % Underlying total retail sales growth 8.8% 12.6% inc. fuel Bank impact 0.2% 0.1% Underlying Group sales inc VAT 9.0% 12.7% Underlying Revenue Total sales less acquisition fair value A reconciliation of the measure is provided in note 4 of the Group sales unwinds on Argos Financial Services.
This is the headline measure of revenue for the Group.
It shows the annual rate of growth in the Groups sales and is considered a good indicator of how rapidly the Groups core business is growing.
Underlying profit Profit before tax Profit or loss before tax before any items A reconciliation of underlying profit before tax is provided in before tax recognised which, by virtue of their size note 3 of the financial statements.
and or nature, do not reflect the Groups underlying performance.
Retail underlying Profit before tax Underlying earnings before interest, tax, A reconciliation of the measure is provided in note 4 of the operating profit Financial Services operating profit and financial statements.
Sainsburys underlying share of post-tax profit from joint ventures and associates.
Underlying basic Basic earnings Earnings per share using underlying A reconciliation of the measure is provided in note 8 of the earnings per share per share profit as described above.
This is a key measure to evaluate the performance of the business and returns generated for investors.
Retail underlying No direct Retail underlying operating profit as A reconciliation of the measure is provided on page 38 of the EBITDAR equivalent Profit above, before rent, depreciation and Financial Review.
Retail rent excludes 2 million relating A reconciliation of Group rent is provided in note 5 of the to Sainsburys Bank.
182 Financial Statements J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Alternative performance measures continued Closest equivalent APM IFRS measure Definition Purpose Reconciliation Cash flows and net debt 2018 2017 Cash flow items in No direct To help the reader understand cash Ref m m Financial Review equivalent flows of the business a summarised Net interest paid a 105 108 cash flow statement is included within the Financial Review.
As part of this Strategic capital expenditure b 80 92 a number of line items have been Acquisition of subsidiaries c 135 128 combined.
The cash flow in note 4 of the financial statements includes Repayment of borrowings d 174 211 a reference to show what has been Other e 2 6 combined in these line items.
2018 2017 Retail free Net cash Net cash generated from retail Reconciliation of retail free cash flow m m 1 cash flow generated operations, adjusted for exceptional Cash generated from retail operations 1,259 929 from operating pension contributions, after cash capital activities expenditure but before strategic capital Add back: Exceptional pension contribution 199 expenditure and after investments Net interest paid ref a above 105 108 in joint ventures and associates and Sainsburys Bank capital injections.
Corporation tax 72 87 This measures cash generation, Retail purchase of property, plant and 553 622 working capital efficiency and capital equipment expenditure of the retail business.
Retail purchase of intangible assets 69 58 Retail proceeds from disposal of property, 54 55 plant and equipment Add back: Strategic capital expenditure 80 92 Dividends and distributions received 37 65 Investment in joint ventures and associates 9 16 Bank capital injections 190 130 Free cash flow 432 319 Cash generated Cash generated Retail cash generated from operations The reconciliation between retail and Group cash generated from from retail from operations after changes in working capital but operations is provided in note 4 of the financial statements.
operations per before pension contributions and Financial Review exceptional pension contributions.
This enables management to assess the cash generated from its core retail operations.
2018 2017 Core retail capital No direct Capital expenditure excludes Sainsburys Reconciliation of free cash flow m m expenditure equivalent Bank, after proceeds on disposals and before strategic capital expenditure.
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 473 530 Purchase of intangibles 69 58 This allows management to assess core retail capital expenditure in the period Cash capital expenditure before strategic 542 588 in order to review the strategic business capital expenditure note 4 performance.
Strategic capital expenditure ref b above 80 92 The reconciliation from the cash flow Proceeds on disposal 54 55 statement is included here.
Cash capital expenditure including 568 625 strategic capital expenditure Capitalised interest 7 7 Other including strategic capital expenditure 80 85 Total net retail core capital expenditure 495 547 1 T he definition of retail free cash flow has changed in the financial year from net cash generated from retail operations, adjusted for exceptional pension contributions, after cash capital expenditure but before strategic capital expenditure to net cash generated from retail operations, adjusted for exceptional pension contributions, after cash capital expenditure but before strategic capital expenditure and after investments in joint ventures and associates and Sainsburys Bank capital injections.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Financial Statements J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 183 Closest equivalent APM IFRS measure Definition Purpose Reconciliation Cash flows and net debt A reconciliation of the measure is provided in note 26 of the Retail net debt Borrowings, cash, Net debt includes the capital injections in to Sainsburys Bank, but excludes the financial statements.
derivatives and net debt of Sainsburys Bank and its available-for-sale subsidiaries.
Sainsburys Banks net debt financial assets, balances are excluded because they are finance leases required for business as usual activities.
It is calculated as: available-for-sale assets excluding equity investments net derivatives net cash and cash equivalents loans finance lease obligations.
This shows the overall strength of the balance sheet alongside the liquidity and its indebtedness and whether the Group can cover its debt commitments.
Gearing No direct Retail net debt divided by Group Retail net debt as per above and net assets as per the Group equivalent net assets.
Gearing measures the Groups proportion of borrowed funds to its equity.
Other Lease adjusted No direct Net debt plus capitalised lease A reconciliation of this is provided in the Financial Review on net debt equivalent obligations divided by Group underlying page 41. underlying EBITDAR.
EBITDAR This helps management measure the ratio of the businesss debt to operational cash flow.
Return on capital No direct Return on capital employed is calculated An explanation of the calculation is provided in the Financial employed equivalent as return divided by average capital Review on page 41. employed.
Return is defined as underlying profit before interest and tax.
Capital employed is defined as net assets excluding net debt.
The average is calculated on a 14 point basis.
This represents the total capital that the Group has utilised in order the generate profits.
Management use this to assess the performance of the business.
Interest cover No direct Underlying operating profit, plus Underlying operating profit as per note 4 of the financial equivalent underlying share of post-tax profit from statements.
joint ventures and associates, divided Underlying share of post-tax profit from joint ventures and by underlying net finance costs, where associates as per note 4 of the financial statements.
interest on perpetual securities is Underlying net finance costs as per note 6 of the financial included in underlying finance costs.
This measures the ability of the Group to pay the interest on its outstanding debt.
This measurement is used by creditors, lenders and investors to determine the risk of lending funds to the Group.
Fixed charge cover No direct Group underlying EBITDAR divided by EBITDAR is reconciled in the Financial Review on page 41. equivalent net rent and underlying net finance Underlying net finance costs as per note 6 of the financial costs, where interest on perpetual statements.
securities is included in underlying finance costs.
This helps assess the Groups ability to satisfy fixed financing expenses from performance of the business.
184 Financial Statements J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Glossary FVTPL Fair value through profit or loss.
Method of valuing a financial Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to help inspire school children to instrument where changes in fair value are recognised directly in the take more exercise and to eat more healthily.
Launched in 2005, Active Kids income statement.
is open to all nursery, primary and secondary schools as well as Scouts and Girl Guides in the UK.
co. uk activekids Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
Annual General Meeting AGM This year the AGM will be held on IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Wednesday 18 July 2018 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standard s. Argos Financial Services AFS ARG Personal Loans Limited: Home Joint venture JV A business jointly owned by two or more parties.
Retail Group Card Services Limited: and Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited.
Kantar Worldpanel Kantar An independent third party providing data on the UK Grocery Market.
basics Sainsburys entry level own-brand range of products.
Live Well for Less Sainsburys customer commitment to continue to help bps Basis points.
people live the life they want to live, with quality products at fair prices.
by Sainsburys Core own-label brand.
Click & Collect Service which allows customers to place general MSC Marine Stewardship Council.
merchandise and grocery orders online for collection in-store.
Nectar One of the most popular loyalty schemes in the UK.
CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities.
Non-controlling interest The equity in a subsidiary not attributable, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability CR&S The need to act directly or indirectly, to the Company.
responsibly in managing our impact on a range of stakeholders: customers, colleagues, investors, suppliers, the community and the environment.
OFT Office of Fair Trading.
Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax from continuing operations Real discount rate Discount rate less inflation rate.
attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by total value of dividends declared during the year.
Earnings Per Share EPS Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Taste the Difference Sainsburys premium own-brand range of products.
of the parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by ESOP Trusts, which are treated Total Shareholder Return TSR The growth in value of a shareholding as cancelled.
over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an independent consumer label that guarantees a fair deal for marginalised workers and small scale farmers in Tu Sainsburys own-label clothing range.
Producers receive a minimum price that covers the cost of production and an extra premium that is invested in the local community.
uk Fair value The amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing company, runs the FTSE4Good index series to measure the performance of companies that meet corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate investment in those companies.
com products indices FTSE4Good This report is printed on UPM Fine.
The printer is certified to the environmental management system ISO14001 and is also CarbonNeutral The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
FSC Trademark 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C. Designed by mslgroup.
