Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 4.
Exceptional Items Items that are, in aggregate, material in size and or unusual or infrequent in nature, are included within operating profit and disclosed separately as exceptional items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The separate reporting of exceptional items, which are presented as exceptional within the relevant category in the Consolidated Income Statement, helps provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
The principal items where significant or non-recurring which may be included as exceptional items are: Profit loss on the disposal of non-current assets Provision for rentals on onerous property leases Impairment of property, plant and equipment Impairment of non-current other assets Impairment of goodwill, brand names and fascia names Impairment of investment property Profit loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings Negative goodwill Business restructuring and business closure related costs Gains losses arising on changes in ownership interest where control has been obtained Fair value adjustments to put option liabilities 53 weeks to 52 weeks to 3 February 2018 28 January 2017 Note m m Impairment of goodwill and fascia names 1 12 11.6 6.4 Movement in fair value of put and call options 2 20 1.3 - Administrative expenses exceptional 12.9 6.4 1.
The charge in the period to 3 February 2018 relates to the non-cash impairment of the fascia name balance arising in prior years on the acquisition of Next Athleisure Pty Limited and JD Sports Fashion SDN BHD and the impairment of goodwill arising in prior years on the acquisition of Tiso Group Limited.
The charge in the period to 28 January 2017 relates to the non-cash impairment of the fascia name balance arising in prior years on the acquisition of ActivInstinct Limited, the fascia name arising in the year on the acquisition of Aspecto Holdings Limited and Infinities Retail Group Holdings Limited and the impairment of the goodwill arising in the year on the acquisition of 2Squared Agency Limited.
Movement in the fair value of put and call options See note 20.
These administrative expenses are exceptional items as they are, in aggregate, material in size and or unusual or infrequent in nature.
Remuneration of Directors The remuneration of the Executive Directors includes provision for future LTIP payments of nil 2017: 0.6 million.
Further information on Directors emoluments is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 92.
In the opinion of the Board, the key management as defined under revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures are the six Executive and Non-Executive Directors 2017: six.
During the year there was one 2017: one director within the defined contribution pension scheme.
Full disclosure of the Directors remuneration is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 97.
53 weeks to 52 weeks to 3 February 2018 28 January 2017 m m Directors emoluments: As Non-Executive Directors 0.2 0.1 As Executive Directors 3.0 3.6 Pension contributions - - 3.2 3.7 127
