Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of Preparation General Information JD Sports Fashion Plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements for the 53 week period ended 3 February 2018 represent those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 16 April 2018.
Basis of Preparation European Union law EU LAW IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires that the financial statements of the Group are prepared and approved in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the requirements of adopted IFRSs that are endorsed by the EU and effective at 3 February 2018.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest tenth of a million.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the Consolidated Income Statement and also put and call options held by the non-controlling interests.
The accounting policies set out below have unless otherwise stated been applied consistently to all periods present in these financial statements and have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Executive Chairmans Statement and Financial and Risk Review on pages 38 to 39 and 46 to 59 respectively.
In addition, details of financial instruments and exposures to interest rate, foreign currency, credit and liquidity risks are outlined in note 19.
At 3 February 2018, the Group had net cash balances of 309.7 million 2017: 213.6 million with available committed borrowing facilities of 215 million 2017: 215 million of which nil 2017: nil has been drawn down see note 18.
With a facility of 215 million available, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries and completing the assessment outlined in the Viability Reporting on page 52 including the proposed acquisition of The Finish Line, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Alternative Performance Measures The Directors measure the performance of the Group based on a range of financial measures, including measures not recognised by EU-adopted IFRS.
These alternative performance measures may not be directly comparable with other companies alternative performance measures and the Directors do not intend these to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
The Directors believe that these alternative performance measures assist in providing additional useful information on the underlying performance of the Group.
Alternative performance measures are also used to enhance the comparability of information between reporting periods, by adjusting for exceptional items, which could distort the understanding of the performance for the year.
Further information can be found in the Glossary on page 190 to 191.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards The following amendments to accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, have been adopted for the first time by the Group in the period with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will be applicable to the Group for the financial year ending 2 February 2019.
The Group has completed an assessment of IFRS 9 and it is expected that the adoption will not have a material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will be applicable to the Group for the financial year ending 2 February 2019.
The Group has completed an assessment of IFRS 15 and it is expected that the adoption will not have a material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
