Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 26.
Commitments continued iii Sublease Receipts The Group subleases various retail outlets under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The total future minimum operating sublease receipts expected to be received at 3 February 2018 are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Within one year 0.9 0.5 Later than one year and not later than five years 1.4 1.4 After five years 0.1 0.3 2.4 2.2 27.
Pension Schemes The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes, the assets of which are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
Obligations for contributions to the defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement when incurred.
The pension charge for the period represents contributions payable by the Group of 7.3 million 2017: 4.8 million in respect of employees.
Disclosure of the pension contributions payable in respect of the Directors is included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The amount owed to the schemes at the period end was 0.8 million 2017: 0.8 million.
Analysis of Net Cash Net cash consists of cash and cash equivalents together with other borrowings from bank loans and overdrafts, other loans, loan notes, finance leases and similar hire purchase contracts.
Related Party Transactions and Balances Transactions and balances with each category of related parties during the period are shown in the tables to the right.
Transactions were undertaken in the ordinary course of business on an arms length basis.
Outstanding balances are unsecured unless otherwise stated and will be settled in cash.
Transactions with Related Parties Who Are Not Members of the Group Pentland Group Plc Pentland Group Plc owns 57.5% 2017: 57.5% of the issued ordinary share capital of JD Sports Fashion Plc.
The Group made purchases of inventory from Pentland Group Plc in the period and the Group also sold inventory to Pentland Group Plc.
The Group also paid royalty costs to Pentland Group Plc for the use of a brand.
