Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 21.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Onerous Lease Provision The Group makes a provision for onerous property leases on specific stores based on the anticipated future cash outflows relating to the contractual lease cost less potential sublease income.
The estimation of sublease income is based on historical experience and knowledge of the retail property market in the area around each property.
Assumptions and judgements are used in making these estimates and changes in assumptions and future events could cause the value of these provisions to change.
This would include sublet premises becoming vacant, the liquidation of an assignee resulting in a property reverting to the Group or closing an uneconomic store and subletting at below contracted rent.
Within the onerous lease provision, management have provided against the minimum contractual lease cost less potential sublease income for vacant stores.
For loss making trading stores and for stores where there is a probable risk of the store returning to the Group under privity of contract, a provision is made to the extent that the lease is deemed to be onerous.
Onerous Contracts Provision Within the onerous contracts provision, management have provided against the minimum contractual cost for the remaining term on non-cancellable sponsorship contracts.
For contracts where there is probable risk that the costs to fulfil the terms of the contract are higher than the income received, a provision is made to the extent that the contract is deemed onerous.
The provisions are discounted where the effect is material.
The pre-tax discount rate used is 10.1% 2017: 10.7% which reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the specific risks applicable to the liability.
Onerous Onerous property leases contracts Total m m m Balance at 28 January 2017 1.7 0.3 2.0 Provisions created during the period 2.7 - 2.7 Provisions released during the period 0.1 - 0.1 Provisions utilised during the period 0.4 0.3 0.7 Balance at 3 February 2018 3.9 - 3.9 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 2018 2017 m m Current 2.1 1.0 Non-current within five years 1.8 1.0 3.9 2.0 159
