Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of Preparation General Information JD Sports Fashion Plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements for the 53 week period ended 3 February 2018 represent those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 16 April 2018.
Basis of Preparation European Union law EU LAW IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires that the financial statements of the Group are prepared and approved in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the requirements of adopted IFRSs that are endorsed by the EU and effective at 3 February 2018.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest tenth of a million.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the Consolidated Income Statement and also put and call options held by the non-controlling interests.
The accounting policies set out below have unless otherwise stated been applied consistently to all periods present in these financial statements and have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Executive Chairmans Statement and Financial and Risk Review on pages 38 to 39 and 46 to 59 respectively.
In addition, details of financial instruments and exposures to interest rate, foreign currency, credit and liquidity risks are outlined in note 19.
At 3 February 2018, the Group had net cash balances of 309.7 million 2017: 213.6 million with available committed borrowing facilities of 215 million 2017: 215 million of which nil 2017: nil has been drawn down see note 18.
With a facility of 215 million available, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries and completing the assessment outlined in the Viability Reporting on page 52 including the proposed acquisition of The Finish Line, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Alternative Performance Measures The Directors measure the performance of the Group based on a range of financial measures, including measures not recognised by EU-adopted IFRS.
These alternative performance measures may not be directly comparable with other companies alternative performance measures and the Directors do not intend these to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
The Directors believe that these alternative performance measures assist in providing additional useful information on the underlying performance of the Group.
Alternative performance measures are also used to enhance the comparability of information between reporting periods, by adjusting for exceptional items, which could distort the understanding of the performance for the year.
Further information can be found in the Glossary on page 190 to 191.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards The following amendments to accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, have been adopted for the first time by the Group in the period with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will be applicable to the Group for the financial year ending 2 February 2019.
The Group has completed an assessment of IFRS 9 and it is expected that the adoption will not have a material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will be applicable to the Group for the financial year ending 2 February 2019.
The Group has completed an assessment of IFRS 15 and it is expected that the adoption will not have a material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
120 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of Preparation continued IFRS 16 Leases will be applicable to the Group for the financial year ending 1 February 2020 and will significantly affect the presentation of the Group financial statements with the Group recognising a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases currently accounted for as operating leases, with the exception of leases for short periods less than 12 months and those for items of low value.
IFRS 16 is also expected to have a material impact on key components within the Consolidated Income Statement as operating lease rental charges will be replaced with depreciation and finance costs.
The impact on the financial statements on transition to IFRS 16 will depend on the approach taken by the Group.
The new standard allows for two different transition approaches, fully retrospective and modified retrospective.
Both approaches will impact the income statement, balance sheet and disclosure when adopted including the opening balance sheet, although the amounts will differ depending on the approach taken.
The Group is currently in the process of assessing the impact of the new standard, deciding on the transition approach and identifying process, systems and information required when adopted.
The Group has not yet concluded on a transition approach and as such it is not possible to fully quantify the impact of IFRS 16 at this stage.
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed and require adoption by the Group in future reporting periods.
The Group does not consider that any other standards, amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The judgements and estimates disclosed below are those which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities.
All other accounting estimates and judgements are disclosed within the relevant accounting policy in the notes to the financial statements.
Changes to Critical Accounting Estimates Determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities on acquisition Included within critical accounting estimates in the prior year was the valuation of the intangibles assets recognised as part of the acquisition of Go Outdoors Topco Limited due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows.
As the measurement period for this acquisition has now closed, this has been removed from the critical accounting estimates as the risk is now categorised as impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets which is discussed further below.
Included within critical accounting policies in the current year is the valuation of the intangible assets recognised as part of the acquisition of Sport Zone see note 11.
The estimates used in the valuation of the intangible assets are considered to have a significant risk of causing a material misstatement, specifically: the estimation of future cash flows, the useful economic life of the asset, the selection of suitable royalty relief rates and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
Intangible assets with indefinite lives During the financial period ended 3 February 2018, the Board reassessed the useful life of each fascia name held by the Group and determined that fascia names should have a finite life rather than an infinite life as previously estimated.
The change in estimate is as a result of identifying that, based on historical experience, the estimated useful life of a fascia is finite taking into account factors such as group synergies and a homogenised offer.
The factors that the Board took into consideration when determining the useful life of each fascia name were: The strength of the respective fascia names in the relevant sector and geographic region where the fascia is located The history of the fascia names and that of similar assets in the relevant retail sectors The commitment of the Group to continue to operate these stores separately for the foreseeable future, including the ongoing investment in new stores and refurbishments The change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite has been accounted for as a change in the accounting estimate in accordance with IAS 8.
Quantification of the impact of this change in accounting estimate is provided in Note 12.
