Strategic Report Financial Review Revenue, Gross Margin and Overheads Total revenue increased by 33% in the year to 3,161.4 investment in our infrastructure for future growth and million 2017: 2,378.7 million.
Like for like store sales our ongoing retail developments, both in the UK and for the 53 week period across all Group fascias, including internationally.
The growth of 37% in net stocks to 478.0 those in Europe, increased by a further 3%, which was a million 2017: 348.0 million is consistent with the growth pleasing performance given the double digit growth seen in sales and we maintain our robust approach to stock in each of the three previous years.
The overall like for like management.
Acquisition and Other Investments Total gross margin in the year of 48.4% was slightly behind the prior year 2017: 48.9% with the inclusion of a full year The net cash consideration on acquisitions in the year, net from Go Outdoors increasing the relative participation of cash acquired, was 24.9 million 2017: 138.6 million.
of the lower margin Outdoor businesses in the overall Subject to approval from shareholders of both businesses, Group result.
we would anticipate completing the major acquisition of The Finish Line business in the United States in the first half of the current year and we will also continue to make Operating Profits and Results other selected acquisitions and investments where they benefit our strategic development.
Operating profit before exceptional items increased substantially by 62.6 million to 308.8 million 2017: Capital Expenditure 246.2 million driven by another very strong performance in Sports Fashion together with encouraging growth Gross capital expenditure excluding disposal costs has in Outdoor including a full year contribution from Go increased significantly to 186.6 million 2017: 88.0 Outdoors for the first time.
A large proportion of this increase has come from exceptional items has now increased by more than 200% investments made to increase warehousing capacity and over the last three financial years 2015: 102.2 million.
to provide certainty on office accommodation in the UK and Spain: There were exceptional items in the year of 12.9 million 2017: 6.4 million primarily from the non-cash impairment UK: We have spent a further 24.5 million 2017: 3.7 of certain intangible assets.
million at the Kingsway site.
Works to expand the internal use of the initial warehouse are now substantially complete The exceptional items comprised: with initial fitting out of the 352,000 sq.
We estimate that further expenditure of up to 30 million is required to complete the fitting out of the leased 2018 2017 m m extension, including automation equipment, the majority of which will be incurred in the current year.
We currently Non-cash impairment of intangible assets 1 11.6 6.4 expect to have the first areas in the extension available Movement in fair value of put and call options 2 1.3 - for operational use before Christmas.
In addition, we have Total exceptional charge 12.9 6.4 secured the land and buildings at the site of our existing Group Head Office in Bury at a cost of 12.6 million.
This will remain our base for the foreseeable future.
The charge in the period to 3 February 2018 relates to Spain: A total of 39.5 million 2017: nil has been incurred the non-cash impairment of the fascia name balance to date on the acquisition and subsequent fitting out of a arising in prior years on the acquisition of Next new warehouse and head office in Alicante for our Sprinter Athleisure Pty Limited and JD Sports Fashion SDN BHD business.
We estimate that a further 4 million is required and the impairment of goodwill arising in prior years to complete the fit out of this facility, including automation on the acquisition of Tiso Group Limited.
The charge equipment, with operational testing underway ahead of in the period to 28 January 2017 relates to the nonthe site being commissioned during the summer.
cash impairment of the fascia name balance arising in prior years on the acquisition of ActivInstinct Limited, Elsewhere, the primary focus of our capital expenditure the fascia name arising in the year on the acquisition remains our international retail expansion with the spend of Aspecto Holdings Limited and Infinities Retail Group in the year on property fit outs increasing by 15.7 million Holdings Limited and the impairment of the goodwill to 79.7 million 2017: 64.0 million.
This includes 38.6 arising in the year on the acquisition of 2Squared million 2017: 35.7 million of expenditure in retail stores Agency Limited.
outside the JD fascias core UK and Ireland domain.
We have also spent a further 12.2 million 2017: 5.4 2.
Movement in the fair value of put and call options million on our developing gyms business.
There was See note 20. also an increase in the spend on key money and other store related long term deposits to 10.9 million 2017: Group profit before tax in the year ultimately increased 6.0 million reflecting the increased scale of the Groups by 24% to 294.5 million 2017: 238.4 million.
We anticipate that expenditure in the current financial Working Capital and Cash year will be maintained at a similar level overall with a reduction in expenditure on warehouse infrastructure Strong cash generation from the ongoing trading in our offset by additional investment in our retail fascias core retail fascias has meant that we ended the year with reflecting our focus on international development and the a net cash balance in excess of 300 million for the first increased number of territories that the Group operates in.
The positive cash position provides the Group with a strong financial foundation for potential acquisitions, 54 55 Strategic Report Financial Review Taxation We are committed to paying our fair share of tax to build A final cash dividend of 1.37p per share is proposed, a successful and sustainable business.
Our approach to which if approved, would represent an increase of 5.4% responsible tax management is to pay the correct amount on the final dividend from the prior year.
Added to the of tax in the right jurisdictions and on time.
The tax we pay interim dividend of 0.26p per share, this takes the full reflects the underlying commercial transactions across our year dividend to 1.63p, which is an increase of 5.2% on the business and given the focus of our activities in the UK, it is prior year.
We believe that this level of dividend strikes only right that this is where the majority of our tax is paid.
a fair balance for shareholders with appropriate capital The total amount paid in the UK across the various taxes retained to facilitate ongoing developments, particularly including local authority business rates in the year to investment in the international Sports Fashion fascias, 3 February 2018 was 211.4 million 2017: 198.6 million.
which will drive success for the Group, and increased benefits to shareholders, over the longer term.
The effective rate of tax on profit from continuing operations has decreased from 22.6% to 19.8% primarily due to the continuing reduction in the UK tax rate and prior Treasury Facilities year adjustments.
Excluding both exceptional items and prior year adjustments from the tax charge, the effective Interest rate hedging has not been put in place on the core rate from continuing activities has decreased from current facility.
The Directors continue to be mindful of the 21.8% to 19.4%.
This core effective rate continues to potential for rises in UK base rates as the general economic be above the standard rate due to depreciation of nonsituation improves but, at present, given the highly seasonal current assets which do not qualify for tax relief and nature of the Groups core cashflows, they do not believe overseas subsidiaries generally being subject to higher that a long term interest hedge is appropriate.
This position rates of corporation tax than the UK.
continues to be reviewed regularly.
Working capital remains well controlled with suppliers Earnings per Share continuing to be paid to agreed terms and settlement discounts taken whenever due.
The basic earnings per share has increased by 30% from 18.38p to 23.83p.
However, the Directors consider the adjusted earnings per share to be a more appropriate Foreign Exchange Exposures measure of the Groups underlying earnings performance since it excludes the post-tax effect of exceptional items The Group has two principal foreign exchange exposures: other than the loss on disposal of non-current assets.
The strong trading performance in the year is reflected in 1.
The sourcing of own brand merchandise from either the the fact that the adjusted earnings per share has increased Far East or Indian Sub-Continent which usually has to be by 32% from 19.04p to 25.15p.
A buying rate is set at the start of the buying season typically six to nine months before product is delivered to stores.
At this point, the Group Dividends aims to protect the anticipated US Dollar requirement at rates at, or above, the buying rate through appropriate The Board reviews the level of distributable reserves foreign exchange instruments.
The Groups forecast bi-annually, to align with the proposed interim and final requirement for US Dollars in the period to January dividend payment dates.
In determining the level of dividend 2019 is now $229.5 million.
Cover is in place for $220.7 in any year the Board considers the following factors: million meaning that the Group is currently exposed on exchange rate movements for $8.8 million of the The availability of cash resources and future cash current years estimated requirement.
The Group is also exposed to the movement in the rate The strategic plan to ensure the retention of sufficient of the Euro from the sale of its UK sourced stocks to financial facilities and resource to facilitate ongoing its subsidiaries in Europe.
However, the Group has an developments which will drive success for the Group and element of a natural hedge on this exposure as the increased benefits to shareholders, over the longer term: Euros received for that stock are then reinvested back in those European subsidiaries to fund the development The principal risks and uncertainties as identified on of both new stores and refurbishments.
The anticipated pages 46 to 51 which could affect the future results of surplus over and above the planned investment levels the Group: and in the period to January 2019, pre any potential acquisition activity to be funded in Euros, is 340.0 The level of retained distributable reserves of JD Sports million.
Hedging contracts are in place to sell 281.7 Fashion Plc, the Company.
The Company has 760.6 million meaning that the Group is currently exposed million of distributable reserves at 3 February 2018 to on exchange rate movements for 58.3 million of the support the dividend policy.
Brian Small Chief Financial Officer 16 April 2018 59
