Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of Preparation continued Critical Accounting Estimates Impairment of Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination from which goodwill arose.
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units, being portfolios of stores or individual businesses.
The cash-generating units used to monitor goodwill and test it for impairment are therefore the store portfolios and individual businesses rather than individual stores, as the cash flows of individual stores are not considered to be independent.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less the costs to sell.
The recoverable amounts of these cash-generating units are determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
See Note 12 for further disclosure on impairment of goodwill and review of the key assumptions used.
Impairment of Other Intangible Assets with Definite Lives The Group is required to test whether other intangible assets with a definite useful economic life have suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amount of brand names is based on an estimation of future sales and the choice of a suitable royalty and discount rate in order to calculate the present value, when this method is deemed the most appropriate.
Alternatively the carrying value of the brand names has been allocated to a cash-generating unit, along with the relevant goodwill and fascia names, and tested in the value-in-use calculation performed for that cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount of brand licences is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit until the licence expiry date and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
Note 12 provides further disclosure on impairment of other intangible assets with definite lives, including review of the key assumptions used.
Provisions to Write Inventories Down to Net Realisable Value The Group makes provisions for obsolescence, mark downs and shrinkage based on historical experiences, the quality of the current season buy, market trends and management estimates of future events.
The provision requires estimates for shrinkage, the expected future selling price of items and identification of aged and obsolete items.
Segmental Analysis IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the Groups segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker is considered to be the Executive Chairman of JD Sports Fashion Plc.
Information reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker is focused on the nature of the businesses within the Group.
The Groups operating and reportable segments under IFRS 8 are therefore as follows: Sports Fashion includes the results of JD Sports Fashion Plc, John David Sports Fashion Ireland Limited, Spodis SA, Champion Sports Ireland, Iberian Sports Retail Group SL including subsidiary companies, JD Sports Fashion BV, Sports Unlimited Retail BV, JD Sports Fashion Germany GmbH, JD Sports Fashion SRL, JD Sports Fashion Belgium BVBA, JD Sports Fashion Sweden AB, JD Sports Fashion Denmark ApS, JD Sports Fashion SDN BHD, JD Sports Fashion Korea Inc, JD Sports Fashion India LLP, JD Sports Fashion Holdings Aus Pty including subsidiary companies, Size GmbH, JD Gyms Limited, Duffer of St George Limited, Topgrade Sportswear Limited, Kooga Rugby Limited, Focus Brands Limited including subsidiary companies, Kukri Sports Limited including global subsidiary companies, Source Lab Limited, R. D. Scott Limited, Tessuti Group Limited including subsidiary companies, Nicholas Deakins Limited, Cloggs Online Limited, Clothingsites.
co. uk Limited, 2Squared Agency Limited, 2Squared Retail Limited, Mainline Menswear Limited, Hip Store Limited, Simon & Simon Fashion Limited and Dantra Limited.
Outdoor includes the results of Blacks Outdoor Retail Limited, Tiso Group Limited including subsidiary companies and Go Outdoors Topco Limited including subsidiary companies.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker receives and reviews segmental operating profit.
Certain central administrative costs including Group Directors salaries are included within the Groups core Sports Fashion result.
This is consistent with the results as reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
IFRS 8 requires disclosure of information regarding revenue from major products and customers.
The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from the retail of a wide range of apparel, footwear and accessories to the general public.
As such, the disclosure of revenues from major customers is not appropriate.
Disclosure of revenue from major product groups is not provided at this time due to the cost involved to develop a reliable product split on a same category basis across all companies in the Group.
Intersegment transactions are undertaken in the ordinary course of business on arms length terms.
122 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Segmental Analysis continued The Board consider that certain items are cross divisional in nature and cannot be allocated between the segments on a meaningful basis.
Net funding costs and taxation are treated as unallocated reflecting the nature of the Groups syndicated borrowing facilities and its tax group.
A deferred tax liability of 5.3 million 2017: 8.2 million and an income tax liability of 30.2 million 2017: 33.6 million are included within the unallocated segment.
Each segment is shown net of intercompany transactions and balances within that segment.
The eliminations remove intercompany transactions and balances between different segments which primarily relate to the net down of long term loans and short term working capital funding provided by JD Sports Fashion Plc within Sports Fashion to other companies in the Group, and intercompany trading between companies in different segments.
Revenue Recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of price discounts and sales related taxes.
Goods Sold Through Retail Stores and Trading Websites In the case of goods sold through the retail stores and trading websites, revenue is recognised when goods are sold and the title has passed, less provision for returns.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of the sale and this provision is included within accruals.
Retail sales are usually in cash, by debit card or by credit card.
For online sales and click and collect orders, where the customer pays online but collects in store, title is deemed to have passed when the goods are dispatched from the warehouse.
For reserve and collect, where the customer reserves online but pays at the point of collection from the store, the title is deemed to have passed when the goods are collected by the customer.
Wholesale Revenue Wholesale revenue is recognised when goods are dispatched and the title and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer.
In some instances, goods are sold with a right of return.
Where wholesale goods are sold with a right of return, a provision is made to estimate the expected level of returns based on accumulated experience and historical rates.
The provision for returns is included within accruals.
Wholesale sales are either settled by cash received in advance of the goods being dispatched or made on agreed credit terms.
Gym Membership Revenue Revenue from the sale of fitness club memberships is recognised in the period the membership relates to.
JD Gyms offers gym memberships with no contract therefore income related to joining fees are recognised immediately on the basis that the related service has been performed.
For new club openings, memberships are sold and joining fees are collected in the period before the new club is opened.
Membership income received in advance of the club opening is deferred until the club is open and then recognised on an accruals basis over the related membership period.
Discount Card Revenue Income from the sale of annual discount cards is accounted for on a systematic basis over the 12 month life of the card which best matches the profile of the spend on these cards.
Gift Cards The initial sale of a gift card is treated as an exchange of tender with the revenue recognised when the cards are redeemed by the customer.
Revenue from gift card breakage is recognised when the likelihood of the customer utilising the gift card becomes remote.
123 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Segmental Analysis continued Business Segments Information regarding the Groups reportable operating segments for the 53 weeks to 3 February 2018 is shown below: Sports Fashion Outdoor Total Income statement m m m Revenue 2,745.0 416.4 3,161.4 Operating profit before exeptional items 300.0 8.8 308.8 Exceptional items 9.6 3.3 12.9 Operating profit 290.4 5.5 295.9 Financial income 0.6 2.0 Financial expenses Profit before tax 294.5 Income tax expense 58.1 Profit for the period 236.4 Sports Fashion Outdoor Unallocated Eliminations Total Total assets and liabilities m m m m m Total assets 1,446.4 257.3 - 77.5 1,626.2 Total liabilities 667.6 166.3 35.5 77.5 791.9 Total segment net assets liabilities 778.8 91.0 35.5 - 834.3 Sports Fashion Outdoor Total Other segment information m m m Capital expenditure: Software development 4.5 - 4.5 Property, plant and equipment 157.4 11.9 169.3 Non-current other assets 12.8 - 12.8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments: Depreciation and amortisation of non-current assets 58.7 12.6 71.3 Impairment of intangible assets Exceptional Items 8.3 3.3 11.6 Impairment of non-current assets Non exceptional Items 3.5 1.6 5.1 124 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Segmental Analysis continued The comparative segmental results for the 52 weeks to 28 January 2017 are as follows: Sports Fashion Outdoor Total Income statement m m m Revenue 2,180.6 198.1 2,378.7 Operating profit before exceptional items 245.0 1.2 246.2 Exceptional items 6.4 - 6.4 Operating profit 238.6 1.2 239.8 Financial income 0.8 Financial expenses 2.2 Profit before tax 238.4 Income tax expense 53.8 Profit for the period 184.6 Sports Fashion Outdoor Unallocated Eliminations Total Total assets and liabilities m m m m m Total assets 994.5 256.0 - 71.6 1,178.9 Total liabilities 463.4 166.5 41.8 71.6 600.1 Total segment net assets liabilities 531.1 89.5 41.8 - 578.8 Sports Fashion Outdoor Total Other segment information m m m Capital expenditure: Software development 3.8 - 3.8 Property, plant and equipment 72.8 4.5 77.3 Non-current other assets 6.9 - 6.9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments: Depreciation and amortisation of non-current assets 57.4 5.0 62.4 Impairment of intangible assets Exceptional Items 6.4 - 6.4 Impairment of non-current assets Non exceptional Items 0.8 0.8 - Geographical Information The Groups operations are located in the UK, Republic of Ireland, France, Spain, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Portugal, Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, Malaysia, South Korea, India, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Dubai, Singapore and Hong Kong.
The following table provides analysis of the Groups revenue by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods services: 53 weeks to 52 weeks to 3 February 2018 28 January 2017 Revenue m m UK 2,058.7 1,655.5 Europe 939.9 656.9 Rest of world 162.8 66.3 3,161.4 2,378.7 The revenue from any individual country, with the exception of the UK, is not more than 10% of the Groups total revenue.
