Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 13.
Property, Plant and Equipment Owned Assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful economic lives, they are accounted for as separate items.
Legal fees and other costs associated with the acquisition of a leasehold interest are capitalised within non-current other assets see note 14.
These costs are amortised over the life of the lease.
Rental income from operating leases where the Group is the lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over the estimated useful life of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: Freehold land not depreciated Warehouse 15 years on a straight line basis Long leasehold and freehold properties 2% per annum on a straight line basis Improvements to short leasehold properties life of lease on a straight line basis Computer equipment 3 - 4 years on a straight line basis Fixtures and fittings 5 - 7 years, or length of lease if shorter, on a straight line basis Motor vehicles 25% per annum on a reducing balance basis Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment and Non-current Other Assets Property, plant and equipment and non-current other assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is not recoverable.
A cashgenerating unit is an individual store.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting period date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would be held net of depreciation if no impairment had been realised.
Leased Assets Assets funded through finance leases and similar hire purchase contracts are capitalised as property, plant and equipment where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
Upon initial recognition, the leased asset is measured at the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Future instalments under such leases, net of financing costs, are included within interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Rental payments are apportioned between the finance element, which is included in finance costs, and the capital element which reduces the outstanding obligation for future instalments so as to give a constant charge on the outstanding obligation.
All other leases are accounted for as operating leases and the rental costs, are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Contingent rentals payable based on store revenues are accrued in line with the related sales and are charged as expenses in the period to which they relate.
The value of any lease incentives is recognised as deferred income and credited to the Consolidated Income Statement against rentals payable on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
144 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 13.
The cash-generating units represent individual stores with the loss based on the specific revenue streams and costs attributable to those cash-generating units.
Assets in impaired stores are written down to their recoverable amount which is calculated as the greater of the fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Included within the depreciation charge for the period ended 3 February 2018 is accelerated depreciation of 3.3 million 2017: 9.4 million following a review of the useful economic life of certain items of property, plant and equipment and assets capitalised.
The carrying amount of the Groups property, plant and equipment includes an amount of 3.9 million 2017: 1.1 million in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The depreciation charge on those assets for the current period was 0.5 million 2017: 0.6 million.
