Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 29.
Related Party Transactions and Balances continued During the period, the Group entered into the following transactions with Pentland Group Plc: Income from Expenditure with Income from Expenditure with related parties related parties related parties related parties 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Sale of inventory 0.4 - 0.3 - Purchase of inventory - 26.3 - 29.6 Royalty costs - 3.4 - 1.8 Marketing costs - 0.6 - - Other income 0.1 - - - At the end of the period, the following balances were outstanding with Pentland Group Plc: Amounts owed by Amounts owed to Amounts owed by Amounts owed to related parties related parties related parties related parties 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Trade receivables payables - - - 1.6 Other than the remuneration of Directors as shown in note 5 and in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 97 there have been no other transactions with Directors in the year 2017: nil.
Subsequent Events The Finish Line, Inc. On 25 March 2018 JD Sports Fashion Plc entered into a conditional acquisition agreement to acquire 100% of the issued share capital of The Finish Line, Inc.
Finish Line at a price of $13.50 per Finish Line share in cash, valuing Finish Lines total equity at approximately $558 million approximately 396 million the Acquisition.
Finish Line is one of the largest retailers of premium multibranded athletic footwear, apparel and accessories in the United States US, the largest sportswear market in the world.
Finish Line trades from 556 Finish Line branded retail stores across 44 US states and Puerto Rico in addition to a well-established multichannel offering.
Finish Line is also the exclusive retailer of athletic shoes, both in-store and online for Macys, one of the US premier retailers, operating 375 branded and 188 unbranded concessions within Macys stores.
The Acquisition offers the Company the opportunity to expand its market leading elevated proposition into the most significant global market.
It immediately gains the benefit of a significant physical and online retail presence and increases the importance of the Company to its major international brand partners.
On completion of the Acquisition, the Company will focus on bringing JDs highly differentiated multichannel retail proposition to the US market.
The Acquisition agreement contains a number of conditions which must be satisfied by one or both of the parties prior to the closing of the Acquisition, including: Approval by the Companys shareholders The approval by the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding Finish Line shares The expiration of the 30 days waiting period after the submission of anti-trust filings by both Finish Line and the Company under the US federal anti-trust laws, which must be filed no later than 10 business days from the signing of the Acquisition agreement, without any request for additional information being made by the US anti-trust authorities during such 30 days period The absence of a company material adverse effect in the period between the signing of the Acquisition agreement and the closing of the Acquisition The continuing accuracy of a number of representations and warranties which are customary in a transaction of this nature 165
