Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements C8.
Investments In the Companys accounts all investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are stated at cost less provisions for impairment losses.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the equity attributable to holders of the parent.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date that control commences and the attributable share of changes in equity subsequent to that date.
Joint Ventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control based on a contractual arrangement.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost and adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets.
Losses of the joint venture in excess of the Groups interest in it are not recognised.
Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Changes in Ownership Interest Without a Loss of Control In accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008, upon a change in ownership interest in a subsidiary without a loss of control, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Acquisitions or disposals of non-controlling interests are therefore accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
Associated transaction costs are accounted for within equity.
