Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2018 General information John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, the Group delivers comprehensive services to support its customers across the complete life cycle of their assets, from concept to decommissioning, across a range of energy, industrial and utility markets.
Details of the Groups activities during the year are provided in the Strategic Report.
John Wood Group PLC is a public limited company, incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Copies of the Group financial statements are available from the Companys registered office at 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen AB11 6EQ.
Accounting Policies Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement.
This is the first set of the Groups financial statements in which IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments have been applied.
The impact of the application of these standards is set out on pages 97 and 98.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to operate within the level of available bank facilities for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the consolidated financial statements on a going concern basis.
In assessing the basis of preparation of these financial statements, the Directors have considered the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 2014, namely assessing the applicability of the going concern basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity, taking account of the Groups latest financial forecasts.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Group has adequate resources for the foreseeable future, the Directors have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions under debt covenants, and the Groups ability to generate cash from trading activities.
At 31 December 2018, the Groups principal debt facilities comprised a $0.9bn term loan repayable in 2020, a $1.75bn revolving credit facility maturing in 2022 and $375m of US private placement debt repayable in 2021, 2024 and 2026.
The Group had headroom of $1,091m under these facilities and in addition had $162m of other undrawn borrowing facilities.
In undertaking their review the Directors have considered the latest forecasts which provide financial projections through to 2020.
Restatement of December 2017 balance sheet The Group finalised the accounting for the Amec Foster Wheeler AFW acquisition during 2018 and as a result the December 2017 balance sheet has been restated.
In addition, the Group has reviewed the classification of provisions and made adjustments to align the treatment of balances between legacy AFW and legacy Wood Group, as well as adjusting for the immaterial classification impact of certain balances following the adoption of IFRS 15.
The table below reconciles the amounts on the reported balance sheet to the restated figures now included as comparatives.
Re-measurement Reported of fair value Provisions Reclassification of Restated Dec-17 adjustments reclassification US SERP Dec-17 $m $m $m $m $m Goodwill 5,359.2 175.3 - - 5,534.5 Other intangible assets 1,511.6 43.2 - - 1,468.4 Other investments - - - 83.8 83.8 Long term receivables 241.3 - - 83.8 157.5 Total non-current assets 8,025.5 132.1 - - 8,157.6 Trade and other receivables 2,628.7 12.9 31.6 - 2,584.2 Current assets 4,049.6 12.9 31.6 - 4,005.1 Trade and other payables 2,447.6 17.4 162.6 - 2,302.4 Income tax liabilities 252.7 16.9 - - 235.8 Current provisions - - 103.8 - 103.8 Total current liabilities 3,243.5 0.5 58.8 - 3,185.2 Net current assets 806.1 13.4 27.2 - 819.9 Deferred tax liabilities 181.5 40.7 - - 140.8 Non-current provisions 865.9 159.4 27.2 - 1,052.5 Non-current liabilities 3,859.6 118.7 27.2 - 4,005.5 Net assets 4,972.0 - - - 4,972.0 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements The Group acquired Amec Foster Wheeler on 6 October 2017.
At Pre-tax discount rates of between 11.4% and 11.8% have been 31 December 2017, the Group had not finalised its assessment of used to discount the CGU cash flows and a terminal value is the fair value of certain AFW assets and liabilities and the 2017 applied using long term growth rates of between 2% and 3%.
financial statements reflected the provisional assessment of A sensitivity analysis has been performed allowing for possible the fair values at the acquisition date.
During 2018, the Group changes to the discount rate, the long-term growth rate and has reassessed those fair values as a result of new information the short term EBITA growth rate.
The headroom in relation to obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the the Asset Solutions EAAA business is $274.0m, however a 1% acquisition date, and recorded measurement period adjustments increase in the discount rate or a 1% reduction in the long-term of $159.4m in provisions see note 19, $12.9m in trade and growth rate would result in impairments of $97.0m and $79.0m other receivables and $17.4m in trade and other payables.
The headroom in relation to the Environment and $40.7m deferred tax asset and a $16.9m reduction to income tax Infrastructure Solutions business is $79.0m, however a 1% liabilities has also been recorded in relation to these adjustments increase in the discount rate or a 1% reduction in the long-term and $132.1m has been added to goodwill.
growth rate would result in impairments of $54.0m and $47.0m respectively.
See note 9 for further details.
After completing the assessment of the valuation of the brands intangible assets, $43.2m of the $727.1m brand intangible b Accounting for acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler plc asset recognised on acquisition of AFW has been reallocated judgement to goodwill to better allocate the consideration paid to assets The Group acquired Amec Foster Wheeler AFW on 6 October acquired.
The acquisition Following the acquisition of AFW, the Group has reviewed the accounting for the transaction was completed in 2018. classification of provisions and made adjustments to align the Management made judgements relating to the fair value of the treatment of balances between legacy AFW and legacy Wood assets and liabilities acquired.
$104.5m of fair value adjustments Group, as well as adjusting for the immaterial classification were recorded at December 2017 and a further $189.7m has impact of certain balances following the adoption of IFRS 15.
A been recorded on finalisation of the acquisition accounting in net amount of $131.0m has been reclassified to provisions with 2018.
$49.4m of tax provisions were recorded at December 2017, trade and other payables being reduced by $162.6m and trade the tax impact of the 2018 adjustments resulted in a reduction and other receivables being reduced by $31.6m.
These adjustments are as a result of new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed The assets held by the US SERP that were previously presented at the acquisition date.
Judgement was required in assessing in long term receivables in now disclosed in other investments the amount of future costs incurred on certain contracts and in see note 11. assessing the outcome of disputes and litigation.
Significant accounting policies c Income taxes estimate The Groups significant accounting policies adopted in the The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
and judgement is required in determining the provision for With the exception of the application of IFRS 15 Revenue from income taxes.
The Group provides for uncertain tax positions contracts with customers and IFRS 9 Financial instruments, based on the best estimate of the most likely outcome in which have been applied from 1 January 2018, these policies respect of the relevant issue.
Tax provisioning for uncertain tax have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
positions is judgemental and requires estimates to be made in respect of existing and potential tax matters.
Where the Critical accounting judgements and estimates final outcome on uncertain tax positions is different from the The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of amounts initially recorded, the difference will have an impact on estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of the Groups tax charge.
See notes 6 and 20 for further details.
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the year.
d Retirement benefit schemes estimate These estimates and judgements are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions and actual The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Group schemes which are largely closed to future accrual.
The management believe that the estimates and assumptions listed value of the Groups retirement benefit schemes surplus below have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment deficit is determined on an actuarial basis using a number to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities.
Changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying value of the surplus deficit.
A sensitivity analysis showing the impact of changes to these assumptions is a Impairment of goodwill estimate provided in note 31.
The principal assumptions that impact The Group carries out impairment reviews whenever events the carrying value are the discount rate, the inflation rate or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value and life expectancy.
The Group determines the appropriate of goodwill may not be recoverable.
In addition, the Group assumptions to be used in the actuarial valuations at the end of carries out an annual impairment review.
An impairment loss each financial year following consultation with the retirement is recognised when the recoverable amount of goodwill is less benefit schemes actuaries.
In determining the discount rate, than the carrying amount.
The impairment tests are carried consideration is given to the interest rates of high quality out by CGU Cash Generating Unit and reflect the latest corporate bonds in the currency in which the benefits will be paid Group budgets and forecasts as approved by the Board.
The and that have terms to maturity similar to those of the related budgets and forecasts are based on various assumptions retirement benefit obligation.
The inflation rate is derived from relating to the Groups businesses including assumptions the yield curve used in deriving the discount rate and adjusted by relating to market outlook, resource utilisation, contract an agreed risk premium.
Assumptions regarding future mortality awards and contract margins.
The outlook for the Group is are based on published statistics and the latest available discussed in the Chief Executive Review.
See note 31 for further details.
92 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements e Provisions and contingent liabilities The Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for using judgement and estimate equity accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying The Group records provisions where it has a present obligation amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable the Groups share of net assets of the joint venture from the that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the acquisition date.
The results of the joint ventures are included obligation and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be in the consolidated financial statements from the date the made.
Where the outcome is less than probable, but more than joint control commences until the date that it ceases.
The remote, or a reliable estimate cannot be made, no provision is recorded but a contingent liability is disclosed in the financial Group includes its share of joint venture profit on the line Share statements, if material.
The recording of provisions is an area of post-tax profit from joint ventures in the Group income which requires the exercise of management judgement relating statement and its share of joint venture net assets in the to the nature, timing and probability of the liability and typically investment in joint ventures line in the Group balance sheet.
the Groups balance sheet includes contract provisions and A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties provisions for pending legal issues.
that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to As a result of the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler in 2017, the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the the Group has acquired a significant asbestos related liability.
The Group accounts for joint operations by Some of AFWs legacy US and UK subsidiaries are defendants recognising the appropriate proportional share of revenue, in asbestos related lawsuits and there are out of court informal expenses, assets and liabilities.
claims pending in both jurisdictions.
Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to the Presentational currency use of asbestos in connection with work allegedly performed by The Groups earnings stream is primarily US dollars and the subsidiary companies in the 1970s and earlier.
The provision for Group therefore uses the US dollar as its presentational asbestos liabilities is the Groups best estimate of the obligation currency.
required to settle claims up until 2050.
Group policy is to record annual changes to the underlying gross estimates where The following exchange rates have been used in the preparation they move by more than 5%.
Further details of the asbestos of these financial statements: liabilities are provided in note 19 including a sensitivity analysis 2018 2017 showing the impact of changes to the key assumptions.
f Revenue recognition on fixed price and long-term Average rate 1 $ 1.3345 1.2886 contracts estimate Closing rate 1 $ 1.2736 1.3528 The Group has a significant number of fixed price long term contracts which are accounted for in accordance with IFRS Foreign currencies 15 and require estimates to be made for contract revenue.
In each individual entity, transactions in foreign currencies are Contract revenues are affected by uncertainties that depend translated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange on the outcome of future events.
Uncertainties include the rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and estimation of forecast costs to complete the contract, timing liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated and recoverability of unagreed income from variations to the at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any contract scope and claims.
Estimates are updated regularly and exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
significant changes are highlighted through established internal review procedures.
The contract reviews focus on the timing Income statements of entities whose functional currency is and recognition of revenue including income from incentive not the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average payments, scope variations and claims.
rates of exchange for the period and assets and liabilities are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the Basis of consolidation balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation The Group financial statements are the result of the of net assets in such entities held at the beginning of the year, consolidation of the financial statements of the Groups together with those differences resulting from the restatement subsidiary undertakings from the date of acquisition or up of profits and losses from average to year end rates, are taken until the date of divestment as appropriate.
Subsidiaries are to the currency translation reserve.
entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the those returns through its power over the entity.
All Group foreign entity and translated at the exchange rate ruling at the companies apply the Groups accounting policies and prepare balance sheet date with any exchange differences taken to the financial statements to 31 December.
Intra-group balances and currency translation reserve.
transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising The directors consider it appropriate to record sterling from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
denominated equity share capital in the financial statements of John Wood Group PLC at the exchange rate ruling on the date Joint ventures and joint operations it was raised.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement where the parties to the arrangement share rights to its net assets.
Joint control Revenue recognition is the contractually agreed arrangement which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration specified consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in a contract with a customer and is stated net of sales taxes in determining joint control are similar to those necessary to such as VAT and discounts.
The Group recognises revenue determine control over subsidiaries.
when it transfers control over a good or service to a customer.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements Cost reimbursable projects Dividends payable Revenue is recognised over time as the services are provided Dividends to the Groups shareholders are recognised as a based on contractual rates per man hour in respect of multiliability in the period in which the dividends are approved by year service contracts.
The amount of variable revenue related shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
See to the achievement of key performance indicators KPIs note 7 for further details.
is estimated at the start of the contract, but any revenue recognised is constrained to the extent that it is highly probable Business combinations there will not be a significant reversal in future periods.
The Group accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting when control is transferred Lump sum or fixed price contacts to the Group.
The consideration transferred is measured at fair Revenue on fixed price or lump sum contracts for services, value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired.
Any goodwill construction contracts and fixed price long-term service that arises is tested annually for impairment.
Intangible assets agreements is recognised over time according to the stage of arising on business combinations are tested for impairment when completion reached in the contract by measuring the proportion indicators of impairment exist.
Acquisition costs are expensed of costs incurred for work performed to total estimated costs.
and included in administrative expenses in the income statement.
Revenue in respect of variations is recognised when the Goodwill variation is approved by both parties to the contract.
To the extent that a change in scope has been agreed but the Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over corresponding change in price has not been agreed then the fair value of the net assets acquired.
Goodwill is carried revenue is recognised only to the extent that that it is highly at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur.
A claim is an amount that the contractor seeks to collect from Intangible assets the customer as reimbursement for costs whose inclusion in Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated the contract price is disputed, and may arise from, for example, amortisation.
Intangible assets are recognised if it is probable delays caused by the customer, errors in specification or design that there will be future economic benefits attributable to and disputed variations in contract work.
Claims are also a the asset, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the source of variable consideration and are included in contract asset is separately identifiable and there is control over the use revenue only to the extent that it is highly probable that a of the asset.
Where the Group acquires a business, intangible significant reversal of revenue will not occur.
Appropriate legal assets on acquisition are identified and evaluated to determine advice is taken in advance of any revenue being recognised in the carrying value on the acquisition balance sheet.
assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a The related contract costs are recognised in the income straight-line basis, as follows: statement when incurred.
When it is probable that total Software 3-5 years contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately.
Development costs and licenses 3-5 years Details of the services provided by the Group are provided under Intangible assets on acquisition the Segmental Reporting heading.
Customer contracts and relationships 5-13 years Order backlog 2-5 years Exceptional items Brands 20 years Exceptional items are those significant items which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable Property plant and equipment a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Property plant and equipment PP&E is stated at cost less Transactions which may give rise to material exceptional accumulated depreciation and impairment.
No depreciation is items include gains and losses on divestment of businesses, charged with respect to freehold land and assets in the course write downs or impairments of assets including goodwill, of construction.
restructuring or regulatory costs or provisions, litigation Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over settlements, tax provisions or payments, provisions for onerous the following estimated useful lives of the assets: contracts and acquisition and divestment costs.
The tax impact on these transactions is shown separately in the exceptional Freehold and long leasehold buildings 25-50 years items note to the financial statements note 5.
Short leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and equipment 3-10 years Finance expense income Interest income and expense is recorded in the income When estimating the useful life of an asset group, the principal statement in the period to which it relates.
Arrangement factors the Group takes into account are the durability of the fees and expenses in respect of the Groups debt facilities are assets, the intensity at which the assets are expected to be amortised over the period which the Group expects the facility used and the expected rate of technological developments.
Interest relating to the unwinding of discount on Asset lives and residual values are assessed at each balance deferred and contingent consideration and asbestos liabilities sheet date.
is included in finance expense.
Interest expense and interest income on scheme assets relating to the Groups retirement benefit schemes are also included in finance income expense.
See note 3 for further details.
94 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Impairment Asbestos related receivables The Group performs impairment reviews in respect of PP&E, Asbestos related receivables represents managements best investment in joint ventures and intangible assets whenever estimate of insurance recoveries relating to liabilities for events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying pending and estimated future asbestos claims through to amount may not be recoverable.
In addition, the Group carries 2050.
They are only recognised when it is virtually certain that out annual impairment reviews in respect of goodwill.
Asbestos related assets under executed impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of settlement agreements with insurers due in the next 12 months an asset, which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs are recorded within Trade & other receivables and beyond to sell and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount.
12 months are recorded within Long term receivables.
The Groups asbestos related assets have been discounted using an For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated appropriate rate of interest.
to the appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The CGUs are aligned to the structure the Group uses to manage its business.
Trade payables Cash flows are discounted in determining the value in use.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and See note 9 for further details of goodwill impairment testing subsequently measured at amortised cost.
and note 11 for details of impairment of investment in joint ventures.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of Cash and cash equivalents transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and other at amortised cost.
short-term bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings Deferred and contingent consideration in current liabilities.
The Group presents balances that are part Where deferred or contingent consideration is payable on the of a pooling arrangement on a gross basis in both cash and acquisition of a business based on an earn out arrangement, short-term borrowings.
an estimate of the amount payable is made at the date of acquisition and reviewed regularly thereafter, with any Trade receivables change in the estimated liability being reflected in the income Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and statement.
Where the change in liability is considered material, subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective it is disclosed as an exceptional item in the income statement.
interest method, less provision for impairment.
Where deferred consideration is payable after more than one year the estimated liability is discounted using an appropriate The Group recognises loss allowances for Expected Credit rate of interest.
Deferred consideration is initially recognised Losses ECLs on trade receivables and gross amounts due at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
from customers, measured at an amount equal to lifetime Contingent consideration is recognised at fair value.
ECLs are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
Credit losses are measured as the present value of all Taxation cash shortfalls i. e. the difference between the cash flows due The tax charge represents the sum of tax currently payable to the entity in accordance with the contract and the cash flows and deferred tax.
Tax currently payable is based on the taxable that the Group expects to receive.
ECLs are discounted at the profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from the profit effective interest rate of the financial asset.
reported in the income statement due to items that are not At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether financial taxable or deductible in any period and also due to items that assets carried at amortised cost are credit-impaired.
A financial are taxable or deductible in a different period.
The Groups asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that have liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
the financial asset have occurred.
Evidence that a financial Deferred tax is provided, using the full liability method, on asset is credit-impaired includes a customer being in significant temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets financial difficulty or a breach of contract such as a default.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise when the Group has no reasonable expectation of recovering a from depreciation on PP&E, tax losses carried forward and, in financial asset in its entirety or a portion thereof.
For individual relation to acquisitions, the difference between the fair values customers, the Group individually makes an assessment with of the net assets acquired and their tax base.
Tax rates enacted, respect to the timing and amount of write-off based on or substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date are used to whether there is a reasonable expectation of recovery.
The Group has a non-recourse financing arrangement with Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is one of its banks in which funds are received in relation to trade probable that future taxable profits will be available against receivable balances before the due date for payment.
Trade which the temporary differences can be utilised.
receivables are derecognised on receipt of the payment from the bank.
See note 13 for further details.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging Retirement benefit scheme surplus deficit activities The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contribution pension schemes.
The surplus or deficit recognised contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at in respect of the defined benefit schemes represents the fair value.
difference between the present value of the defined benefit obligations and the fair value of the scheme assets.
Where hedging is to be undertaken, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee item at the inception of the transaction, as well as the risk administered funds.
The schemes are largely closed to future management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge accrual.
The Group also documents its assessment, both The defined benefit schemes assets are measured using fair at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured annually by derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly an independent actuary using the projected unit method and effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality hedged items.
corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Groups Fair value measurement defined benefit schemes expected to arise from employee Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset service in the period is charged to operating profit.
The interest or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between income on scheme assets and the increase during the period market participants at the measurement date in the principal in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the or, in its absence, the most advantageous market to which passage of time are netted and included in finance income the Group has access at that date.
The fair value of a liability expense.
Re-measurement gains and losses are recognised in reflects its non-performance risk.
A number of the Groups the statement of comprehensive income in full in the period in accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement which they occur.
The defined benefit schemes surplus or deficit of fair values, for both financial and non-financial assets and is recognised in full and presented on the face of the Group liabilities.
When one is available, the Group measures the fair value of The Group consider it is appropriate to recognise the IAS 19 an instrument using the quoted price in an active market for surplus in both the John Wood Group PLC Retirement Benefit that instrument.
If there is no quoted price in an active market, Scheme and the Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan as the then the Group uses valuation techniques that maximise rules governing these schemes provide an unconditional right the use of relevant observable outputs and minimise the use to a refund assuming the gradual settlement of the schemes of unobservable outputs.
The chosen valuation technique liabilities over time until all members have left the schemes.
incorporates all of the factors that market participants would The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are take into account in pricing a transaction.
charged to the income statement in the period to which the The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present contributions relate.
value of their estimated future cash flows.
The fair value The Group operates a SERP pension arrangement in the of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using US for certain employees.
Contributions are paid into a forward foreign exchange market rates at the balance sheet separate investment vehicle and invested in a portfolio of US date.
The fair values of all derivative financial instruments funds that are recognised by the Group in other investments are verified by comparison to valuations provided by financial with a corresponding liability in other non-current liabilities.
Investments are carried at fair value.
The fair value of listed The carrying values of trade receivables and payables equity investments and mutual funds is based on quoted approximate to their fair values.
market prices and so the fair value measurement can be categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market Provisions interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
Provisions are recognised where the Group is deemed to have a legal or constructive obligation, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, Operating leases and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Where Payments made under operating leases are charged to the amounts provided are payable after more than one year the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the estimated liability is discounted using an appropriate rate of lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter interest.
into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
The Group has taken internal and external advice in considering known and reasonably likely legal claims made by or against the Finance leases Group.
It carefully assesses the likelihood of success of a claim A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards or action.
Appropriate provisions are made for legal claims incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance or actions against the Group on the basis of likely outcome, lease.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of but no provisions are made for those which, in the view of the lease at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
management, are unlikely to succeed.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance expense See note 19 for further details.
and a reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the outstanding balance.
Leased assets are Possible but not probable liabilities are disclosed as contingent depreciated over their estimated useful life.
96 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Share based charges relating to employee share schemes The Chief Executive measures the operating performance of these segments using Adjusted EBITA Earnings before The Group has recorded share based charges in relation to a interest, tax and amortisation.
Operating segments are number of employee share schemes.
reported in a manner consistent with the internal management Charges are recorded in the income statement as an employee reports provided to the Chief Executive who is responsible benefit expense for the fair value of share options as at the for allocating resources and assessing performance of the grant date expected to be exercised under the Executive Share operating segments.
Option Schemes ESOS and the Long Term Retention Plan LTRP.
Amounts are accrued over the vesting period with the Assets and liabilities held for sale corresponding credit recorded in retained earnings.
Disposal groups are classified as assets and liabilities held for Options are also awarded under the Groups Long Term Plan sale if it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily LTP which is the incentive scheme in place for executive through sale rather than continuing use.
Disposal groups are directors and certain senior executives.
The charge for options measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs awarded under the LTP is based on the fair value of those to sell and their assets and liabilities are presented separately options at the grant date, spread over the vesting period.
from other assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
The corresponding credit is recorded in retained earnings.
For awards that have a market related performance measure, the Research and development government credits fair value of the market related element is calculated using a The Group claims research and development government Monte Carlo simulation model.
credits in the UK, US and Canada.
These credits are similar in The Group has an Employee Share Plan under which employees nature to grants and are offset against the related expenditure contribute regular monthly amounts which are used to purchase category in the income statement.
The credits are recognised shares over a one year period.
At the end of the year the when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received, participating employees are awarded one free share for every which in some cases can be some time after the original two shares purchased providing they remain in employment expense is incurred.
A charge is calculated for the award of free shares and accrued over the vesting period with the Disclosure of impact of new and future accounting standards corresponding credit taken to retained earnings.
a Amended standards and interpretations For further details of these schemes, please see note 21 and the The following standards and interpretations apply for the first Directors Remuneration Report.
time to accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018: Share capital John Wood Group PLC has one class of ordinary shares and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers has these are classified as equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are replaced IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts not recognised as a liability or charged to equity until they have and establishes a framework for determining how much and been approved by shareholders.
The impact of the application of IFRS 15 on the Groups financial statements is not material as The Group is deemed to have control of the assets, liabilities, set out below.
income and costs of its employee share trusts, therefore they have been consolidated in the financial statements of the IFRS 9 Financial instruments has replaced IAS 39 Financial Group.
Shares acquired by and disposed of by the employee Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and sets out the share trusts are recorded at cost.
The cost of shares held by the requirements for recognising and measuring financial assets employee share trusts is deducted from equity.
The impact of the application of IFRS 9 on the Groups financial statements is not material as set out below.
Segmental reporting The Group has determined that its operating segments are based on management reports reviewed by the Chief Operating Impact of application of IFRS 15 Decision Maker CODM, the Groups Chief Executive.
The The Group has adopted IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect Groups reportable segments are Asset Solutions Europe, method from 1 January 2018.
Accordingly, the information Africa, Asia, Australia Asset Solutions EAAA, Assets Solutions presented for 2017 has not been restated and is presented Americas AS Americas, Specialist Technical Solutions as previously reported under IAS 18, IAS 11 and related STS, Environment and Infrastructure Solutions E&IS and interpretations.
The Group reviewed its revenue recognition processes from a Asset Solutions is focused on increasing production, improving sample of contracts in both legacy Wood Group and legacy efficiency, reducing cost and extending asset life across energy Amec Foster Wheeler businesses.
The main areas of focus and industrial markets and provides initial design, construction, and judgement are listed below but, in summary, no material operations, maintenance and decommissioning services.
changes have resulted from the adoption of the new standard.
STS provides a range of specialist, largely technology related The Group has a number of contracts that include services focused on solving complex technological challenges engineering man-hours and procurement activity where across a broad range of energy and industrial sectors.
E&IS the engineering and procurement elements were previously provides consulting, engineering, project and construction accounted for separately.
In the majority of cases, these are management services to a range of sectors including now accounted for as a single performance obligation under government, water, transport, energy and pharmaceuticals.
IFRS 15, however the differences arising from this change Investment Services manages a range of legacy or non-core are immaterial and have not been adjusted in the financial businesses and investments with a view to generating value via statements.
remediation and restructuring prior to their eventual disposal.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements The Group carries out low margin procurement activity b Standards, amendments and interpretations to on certain contracts for customers.
As part of the IFRS 15 existing standards that are not yet effective and have transition, these contracts were reviewed to assess whether not been early adopted by the Group the Group was acting as principal or agent.
Where the The following standard has been published and is mandatory Group controls the goods before title passes to the customer for the Groups accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2019, then the Group is acting as principal and the related revenue but the Group has not early adopted it: is recognised.
The review did not identify any instances where the conclusion reached in its principal versus agent IFRS 16 assessment was incorrect.
IFRS 16 Leases is effective for accounting periods beginning on The Group has a number of contracts that give the right to or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 introduces a single, on-balance profit based on achievement of key performance indicators sheet lease accounting model for lessees.
Under IFRS 15, an estimate of variable consideration right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying must be made at the start of the contract although any asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make revenue and profit recognised is constrained to the extent lease payments.
The Group has assessed the estimated that it is highly probable there will not be a significant impact that the initial application of IFRS 16 will have on its reversal in future periods.
Historically, the Groups approach consolidated financial statements, as described below.
The to recognising KPI revenue has been to recognise revenue actual impact of adopting the standard on 1 January 2019 may only when the contract is sufficiently far advanced, it is change and the new accounting policies are subject to change probable that the performance targets have been achieved until the Group presents its first financial statements that and payment can be measured reliably.
Consequently, the include the date of initial application.
application of IFRS 15 did not result in a material change to revenue and profit recognised in the period.
Transition The Group will apply IFRS 16 initially on 1 January 2019, using The Group carries out fixed price or lump sum contracts for the modified retrospective approach.
The cumulative effect of services and construction contracts.
These contracts were adopting IFRS 16 will be recognised as an adjustment to the reviewed to determine the appropriate method to measure opening balance of retained earnings at 1 January 2019, with the Groups performance over time and recognise revenue in no restatement of comparative information.
The Group will accordance with IFRS 15.
The Group continues to recognise recognise new assets and liabilities for its operating leases of revenue according to the stage of completion reached in the property, vehicles and other assets.
The nature of expenses contract by measuring the proportion of costs incurred for related to those leases will now change because the Group work performed to date to estimated total contract costs.
will recognise a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets No IFRS 15 differences were identified.
and interest expense on lease liabilities.
Previously, the Group The Group has updated its revenue recognition processes recognised operating lease expense on a straight-line basis and accounting policies for these areas to ensure that it is in over the term of the lease, and recognised assets and liabilities compliance with IFRS 15. only to the extent that there was a timing difference between actual lease payments and the expense recognised.
In addition, the Group will no longer recognise provisions for operating Impact of application of IFRS 9 leases that it assesses to be onerous.
No significant impact is IFRS 9 sets out the requirements for recognising and measuring expected for the Groups finance leases.
financial assets and financial liabilities.
The application of IFRS 9 has had no material impact on the Groups financial Based on the information currently available, the Group statements.
Credit losses incurred in the three years to 31 estimates that it will recognise additional lease liabilities December 2017 amounted to around 0.05% of revenue.
Credit of around $650m at 1 January 2019.
Depreciation and losses in the year to 31 December 2018 amounted to $3.1m, interest in 2019 are expected to increase by circa $140m and which represents 0.02% of revenue.
There were no material $30m respectively with operating lease rentals reducing by areas of judgement in reaching this conclusion.
Consequently, adjusted EBITA is expected to increase by around $30m and adjusted EBITDA by $170m.
All other amendments not yet effective and not included above are not material or applicable to the Group.
98 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Segmental reporting The Group operates through five segments, Asset Solutions EAAA, Asset Solutions Americas, Specialist Technical Solutions, Environment & Infrastructure Solutions and Investment Services.
Under IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, the Group is required to account for joint ventures using equity accounting, however for management reporting the Group uses proportional consolidation, hence the inclusion of the proportional presentation in this note.
A reconciliation from Operating profit before exceptional items to Adjusted EBITA and Adjusted EBITDA is provided in the table below.
Adjusted EBITDA represents Adjusted EBITA before depreciation of property plant and equipment of $63.9m 2017 : $51.5m.
Adjusted EBITA and Adjusted EBITDA are provided as they are units of measurement used by the Group in the management of its business.
Central costs include the costs of certain management personnel in both the UK and the US, along with an element of Group infrastructure costs.
Revenue arising from sales between segments is not material.
Reconciliation of Operating profit to Adjusted EBITA and Adjusted EBITDA 2018 2017 $m $m Operating profit per income statement 165.3 36.4 Share of joint venture finance expense 8.1 3.4 Share of joint venture tax 16.4 14.5 Operating profit including share of joint ventures 189.8 54.3 Continuing exceptional items including joint ventures 191.3 176.0 Adjusted EBIT 381.1 230.3 Amortisation note 9 246.3 139.4 Amortisation joint ventures 2.5 1.9 Adjusted EBITA 629.9 371.6 Depreciation note 10 51.6 41.8 Depreciation joint ventures 12.3 9.7 Adjusted EBITDA 693.8 423.1 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 1 Segmental Reporting continued Other segment items Asset Asset Specialist Environment and Solutions Solutions Technical Infrastructure Investment EAAA Americas Solutions Solutions Services Unallocated Total At 31 December 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Capital expenditure PP&E 13.6 15.6 2.1 3.7 0.5 1.5 37.0 Intangible assets 28.4 11.4 3.9 0.4 - 14.2 58.3 Non-cash expense Depreciation 16.2 22.0 4.1 5.5 1.7 2.1 51.6 Amortisation 85.9 92.0 26.5 32.6 - 9.3 246.3 Exceptional items 44.6 11.2 3.6 0.4 6.8 40.4 107.0 At 31 December 2017 Capital expenditure PP&E 9.1 9.1 2.6 0.4 0.1 0.8 22.1 Intangible assets 20.1 24.7 4.8 0.1 - 7.3 57.0 Non-cash expense Depreciation 13.3 21.9 3.7 1.3 - 1.6 41.8 Amortisation 33.5 80.3 16.2 8.1 0.9 0.4 139.4 Exceptional items 42.9 3.7 2.3 3.4 2.4 45.1 99.8 The figures in the tables above are prepared on an equity accounting basis and therefore exclude the share of joint ventures.
Depreciation in respect of joint ventures totals $12.3m 2017: $9.7m and joint venture amortisation amounts to $2.5m 2017: $1.9m.
Revenue by geographical segment is based on the location of the ultimate project.
Revenue is attributable to the provision of services.
100 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Revenue In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by primary geographical market and major service line.
The tables provided below analyse total revenue including the Groups share of joint venture revenue.
Revenue including joint ventures in 2018 included $7,557.0m or 68% from reimbursable contracts and $3,479.0m 32% from lump sum contracts.
The equivalent figures for revenue from continuing operations, which excludes joint venture revenue, are $6,761.6m 68% from reimbursable contracts and $3,252.8m 32% from lump sum contracts.
Revenue from lump sum contracts is calculated based on an estimate and the amount recognised could increase or decrease.
Contract assets and liabilities The following table provides a summary of contract assets and liabilities arising from the Groups contracts with customers.
2018 2017 $m $m Trade receivables 1,287.1 1,426.8 Gross amounts due from customers 935.1 804.8 Gross amounts due to customers 407.5 450.8 1,814.7 1,780.8 The contract asset balances include amounts the Group has invoiced to customers trade receivables as well as amounts where the Group has the right to receive consideration for work completed which has not been billed at the reporting date gross amounts due from customers.
Gross amounts due from customers are transferred to trade receivables when the rights become unconditional which usually occurs when the customer is invoiced.
Gross amounts due to customers primarily relates to advance consideration received from customers, for which revenue is recognised over time.
Trade receivables and gross amounts due from customers are included within the Trade and other receivables heading in the Group balance sheet.
Gross amounts due to customers is included within the Trade and other payables heading in the Group balance sheet.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 2 Revenue continued Restatement of balances at 31 December 2017 Unbilled income of $278.3m that was included as Trade receivables in the December 2017 balance sheet was reallocated to Gross amounts due from customers in the Groups 2018 interim accounts.
This reclassification was booked to ensure consistency in presentation between similar balances in legacy Wood Group and legacy AFW.
The reclassification referred to on page 92 has resulted in the reclassification of $31.6m to gross amounts due from customers and $14.9m to gross amounts due to customers at 31 December 2017.
$12.9m of gross amounts due from customers at 31 December 2017 was also written down as a measurement period fair value adjustment in relation to the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler.
These reclassifications do not affect net assets.
3 Finance expense income 2018 2017 $m $m Interest payable on senior loan notes 14.1 14.1 Interest payable on borrowings 67.8 20.8 Amortisation of bank facility fees 3.9 1.6 Interest expense retirement benefit obligations note 31 - 2.6 Unwinding of discount on deferred and contingent consideration liabilities 1.0 2.3 Unwinding of discount on asbestos provision 9.7 4.0 Unwinding of discount on other liabilities 4.6 0.6 Other interest expense 16.0 6.3 Finance expense pre-exceptional items 117.1 52.3 Bank fees relating to Amec Foster Wheeler acquisition - 8.5 Finance expense continuing operations 117.1 60.8 Interest receivable 4.8 2.8 Interest income retirement benefit obligations note 31 0.5 - Finance income 5.3 2.8 Finance expense continuing operations net 111.8 58.0 Net interest expense of $8.1m 2017: $3.4m has been deducted in arriving at the share of post-tax profit from joint ventures.
The unwinding of discount on the asbestos provision comprises $10.8m per note 19 less $1.1m relating to the unwinding of discount on long term asbestos receivables.
102 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 4 Profit before taxation 2018 2017 $m $m The following items have been charged credited in arriving at profit before taxation: Employee benefits expense note 30 4,558.2 2,741.6 Depreciation of property plant and equipment note 10 51.6 41.8 Amortisation of intangible assets note 9 246.3 139.4 Loss gain on disposal of property plant and equipment 1.4 1.3 Other operating lease rentals payable: - Plant and machinery 35.5 22.9 - Property 178.0 110.7 Foreign exchange gains losses 11.7 0.7 Depreciation of property plant and equipment is included in cost of sales or administrative expenses in the income statement.
Amortisation of intangible assets is included in administrative expenses in the income statement.
Services provided by the Groups auditors and associate firms During the year the Group obtained the following services from its auditors, KPMG and associate firms at costs as detailed below: 2018 $m Fees payable to the Groups auditors and its associate firms for - Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 4.0 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the company 3.0 Audit related assurance services 0.3 Tax and other services 0.1 7.4 The ratio of audit related services to other non-audit services is 1.00 : 0.01.
In 2017, Group obtained the following services from the previous auditors, PwC and associate firms at costs as detailed below: 2017 $m Fees payable to the Groups auditors and its associate firms for - Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 1.0 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the company 2.9 Reporting accountant and due diligence services in relation to AFW acquisition 2.5 Tax and other services 0.2 6.6 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 5 Exceptional items 2018 2017 $m $m Exceptional items included in continuing operations Acquisition costs in respect of the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler - 58.9 Redundancy, restructuring and integration costs 71.7 51.4 Arbitration settlement provision 10.4 19.2 Investigation support costs 26.3 8.2 GMP equalisation 31.9 - Impairment of investment in EthosEnergy 41.4 28.0 Impairments recorded by EthosEnergy 9.6 1.1 Other write offs relating to EthosEnergy - 9.2 191.3 176.0 Bank fees relating to Amec Foster Wheeler acquisition - 8.5 191.3 184.5 Tax credit 8.5 19.4 Continuing operations exceptional items, net of tax 182.8 165.1 Redundancy, restructuring and integration costs of $71.7m 2017: $51.4m have been incurred during the year.
The total includes $41.8m 2017: $14.1m of integration costs and $23.8m 2017: $28.1m of redundancy and restructuring costs in relation to the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler as well as $6.1m 2017: $9.2m of costs relating to onerous property leases.
A charge of $10.4m was recorded in relation to a legacy contract carried out by the Groups Gas Turbine Services business prior to the formation of EthosEnergy.
An arbitration hearing was held in relation to a dispute between the Group and a former subcontractor and this amount represents the additional provision required to cover the settlement and related legal costs, $19.2m having already been provided in 2017.
Investigation support costs of $26.3m 2017: $8.2m have been incurred during the year in relation to ongoing investigations by the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the US Department of Justice and UK Serious Fraud Office.
See note 33 for full details.
A court ruling passed in October 2018 provided clarity in respect of Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation in relation to UK defined benefit pension schemes.
As a result, the Group has allowed for GMP equalisation in determining its UK defined benefit scheme liabilities with the increase in liabilities arising of $31.9m being recorded as an exceptional charge in the year.
In June 2018, the Group carried out an impairment review of its investment in the EthosEnergy joint venture.
The recoverable amount of the investment, based on managements estimate of fair value less costs of disposal of $29.0m, is lower than the book value and an impairment charge of $41.4m has been booked in the income statement see note 11.
An impairment charge of $28.0m was recorded in 2017.
The Groups share of EthosEnergys exceptional write offs in 2018 was $9.6m 2017: $1.1m and this included restructuring and redundancy costs and write downs in relation to its Power Solutions business.
In 2017, the Group incurred acquisition costs of $58.9m in relation to the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler.
These costs included broker fees and legal fees as well as other advisory and regulatory fees.
In addition, $8.5m of bank fees were expensed in respect of the borrowing facility required to fund the acquisition.
The allocation of continuing exceptionals of $191.3m by segment is as follows AS EAAA $69.0m, AS Americas $11.9m, STS $8.0m, E&IS $2.6m, Investment Services $7.8m and Central $92.0m.
A tax credit of $8.5m 2017: $19.4m has been recorded against exceptional items.
104 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6 Taxation 2018 2017 $m $m Current tax Current year 120.4 87.8 Adjustment in respect of prior years 11.9 21.3 108.5 66.5 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 40.7 55.3 Adjustment in respect of prior years 6.7 2.8 47.4 58.1 Total tax charge 61.1 8.4 Comprising Tax on continuing operations before exceptional items 69.6 27.8 Tax on exceptional items in continuing operations 8.5 19.4 Total tax charge 61.1 8.4 2018 2017 Tax charged credited to equity $m $m Deferred tax movement on retirement benefit liabilities 20.5 0.7 Deferred tax relating to share option schemes 1.1 5.8 Current tax relating to share option schemes 0.4 1.8 Deferred tax impact of rate change 1.8 4.2 Tax on derivative financial instruments 0.6 - Total charged to equity 18.8 7.5 Tax payments differ from the current tax charge primarily due to the time lag between tax charge and payments in most jurisdictions and movements in uncertain tax provisions differing from the timing of any related payments.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 6 Taxation continued 2018 2017 Reconciliation of applicable tax charge credit at statutory rates to tax charge credit $m $m Profit loss before taxation from continuing operations excluding profits from and impairment of joint ventures 60.5 24.9 Applicable tax charge credit at statutory rates 10.5 16.7 Effects of: Non-deductible expenses 10.3 6.9 Non-taxable income 1.9 5.0 Non-deductible expenses - exceptional 2.2 18.7 Non-taxable income - exceptional 1.0 - Benefit of financing structure 10.8 14.3 Deferred tax recognition: Utilisation of deferred tax assets not previously recognised - 5.4 Recognition of deferred tax assets not previously recognised 1.4 9.4 Current year deferred tax assets not recognised 40.4 45.4 Write off of previously recognised deferred tax assets 0.1 3.1 Irrecoverable withholding tax 29.0 16.2 Additional US taxes 5.0 - CFC charges 4.1 1.1 Uncertain tax provisions 5.8 6.7 Uncertain tax provisions prior year adjustments 25.5 1.7 Uncertain tax provisions prior year adjustments - exceptional 2.7 14.9 Prior year adjustments 4.3 7.2 Prior year adjustments - exceptional 13.9 0.3 One off impact of tax reform - 15.7 Impact of change in rates on deferred tax 1.0 0.9 Total tax charge 61.1 8.4 The weighted average of statutory tax rates was 17.4% in 2018 2017: 67.1%.
The adjustment in respect of prior years is largely due to the release of uncertain tax provisions as the final outcome on certain issues was agreed with tax authorities during the year or the statute of limitations for audit by the tax authorities expired without challenge.
The one-off impact of tax reform in 2017 was as a result of a reduction in the US tax rate from 1 January 2018, reducing the Groups deferred tax liability, as well as changes in loss utilisation rules in the UK allowing losses that would not otherwise have been accessible to be utilised against future profits.
Net income tax liabilities in the Group balance sheet include $176.9m 2017: $207.4m relating to uncertain tax positions where management has had to exercise judgement in determining the most likely outcome in respect of the relevant issue.
The larger amounts relate to recoverability of withholding taxes $54.7m, 2017: $61.3m, Group financing $38.3m, of which $13.8m relates to deferred tax, 2017: $49.7m and transfer pricing and tax residence $26.5m, 2017: $36.7m.
Where the final outcome on these issues differs to the amounts provided, the Groups tax charge will be impacted.
Of the uncertain tax positions, $81.8m are currently under audit by tax authorities and the provision reflects the maximum potential liability.
The outcome of the audits will determine if there is a credit to taxation in 2019.
Of the balance, $10.9m will become statute barred for tax authority audit during 2019 if the tax authorities do not commence an audit.
Amounts are netted in the Group balance sheet where corporate tax assets and liabilities are in the same jurisdictions and to the extent there is a legal right of offset.
106 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6 Taxation continued Factors affecting the tax charge in future years There are a number of factors that may affect the Groups future tax charge including the resolution of open issues with the tax authorities, corporate acquisitions and disposals, the use of brought forward losses and changes in tax legislation and rates.
As a result of legislation changes following the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting actions as well as US tax reform, the future tax rate is likely to be affected by the following: Inter-company financing structures giving rise to a rate benefit have been unwound and as such the rate benefit will not recur.
However, this may be partly offset by the deferral of interest deductions which have not been recognised in full in the current year.
The US has introduced a charge in relation to transactions with group companies.
In the current year this charge has been relatively low reflecting the disallowance of interest but it is expected to increase in future years as the tax rate changes from 5% to 10%.
As part of the US tax reform, a new charge on the profits of overseas subsidiaries of US entities was created, which resulted in a tax charge in the current year.
It is anticipated that the charge will reduce in future years reflecting the transfer of subsidiaries out from under US entities in 2018 and 2019 and future relief for foreign tax credits.
In 2017 and 2018 the Group has accrued tax in relation to a change in tax law in Papua New Guinea resulting in profits of a branch being subject to withholding tax at 15%.
In late 2018, the Group received clearance to transfer the business to a separate legal entity in Papua New Guinea with a resulting reduction in the tax charge.
Tax Policy The Group is committed to complying with all relevant tax laws, rules, regulations and reporting and disclosure requirements wherever it operates.
All tax planning undertaken is consistent with the Groups overall strategy and approach to risk.
The Group aims to use incentives and reliefs to minimise the tax cost of conducting business but will not use them for purposes which are knowingly contradictory to the intent of the legislation.
A full copy of the Groups tax strategy can be found on the Groups website at www.
com 7 Dividends 2018 2017 $m $m Dividends on ordinary shares Final 2017 dividend paid: 23.2 cents per share Final 2016: 22.5 cents 155.3 83.9 Interim 2018 dividend paid: 11.3 cents per share Interim 2017: 11.1 cents 75.7 41.7 231.0 125.6 The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2018 of 23.7 cents per share.
The final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2019 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 26 April 2019.
The financial statements do not reflect the final dividend, the payment of which will result in an estimated $158.9m reduction in equity attributable to owners of the parent.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 8 Earnings per share 2018 2017 Earnings losses Earnings losses attributable to attributable to owners of the Number Earnings owners of the Number Earnings parent of shares per share parent of shares per share $m m cents $m m cents Basic pre-exceptional 173.9 669.6 26.0 132.7 440.0 30.1 Exceptional items, net of tax 182.8 - 27.3 165.1 - 37.5 Basic 8.9 669.6 1.3 32.4 440.0 7.4 Effect of dilutive ordinary shares - - - - - - Diluted 8.9 669.6 1.3 32.4 440.0 7.4 Adjusted diluted earnings per share calculation Basic 8.9 669.6 1.3 32.4 440.0 7.4 Effect of dilutive ordinary shares - 13.4 - - 11.3 0.2 8.9 683.0 1.3 32.4 451.3 7.2 Exceptional items, net of tax 182.8 - 26.8 165.1 - 36.6 Amortisation, net of tax 218.0 - 31.9 107.7 - 23.9 Adjusted diluted 391.9 683.0 57.4 240.4 451.3 53.3 Adjusted basic 391.9 669.6 58.5 240.4 440.0 54.6 As the Group has reported a basic loss per ordinary share, any potential ordinary shares are anti-dilutive and are excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share.
These options could potentially dilute earnings per share in future periods.
As adjusted diluted earnings per share is a non-GAAP measure, the potential ordinary shares have not been excluded from this calculation.
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to owners of the parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding shares held by the Groups employee share trusts.
For the calculation of adjusted diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Groups dilutive ordinary shares comprise share options granted to employees under Executive Share Option Schemes and the Long-Term Retention Plan, shares and share options awarded under the Groups Long-Term Plan and shares awarded under the Groups Employee Share Plan.
Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share are disclosed to show the results excluding the impact of exceptional items and amortisation, net of tax.
There were no additions to software held under deferred payment arrangements during the year 2017: $nil.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The Group acquired Amec Foster Wheeler on 6 October 2017.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had not fully finalised its assessment of the fair value of certain AFW assets and liabilities and the 2017 financial statements reflected the provisional assessment of the fair values at the acquisition date.
During 2018, the Group has reassessed those fair values as a result of new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date, and recorded measurement period adjustments of $159.4m in provisions, $12.9m in trade and other receivables and $17.4m in trade and other payables offset by a $40.7m reduction in deferred tax and a $16.9m reduction in income tax liabilities.
These adjustments have increased the goodwill on the transaction by $132.1m.
After completing the assessment of the valuation of the brands intangible assets, $43.2m of the $727.1m brand intangible asset recognised on acquisition of AFW has been reallocated to goodwill to better allocate the consideration paid to assets acquired.
The December 2017 balance sheet has been restated accordingly.
In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets, goodwill was tested for impairment during the year.
The impairment tests were carried out by Cash Generating Unit CGU.
The Group has five reportable segments and Goodwill is monitored by management at CGU level there is no goodwill attributable to the Investment Services business.
The allocation of Goodwill by CGU is shown in the table below.
Value-in-use calculations have been prepared for each CGU using the cash flow projections included in the financial budgets prepared by management and approved by the Board for 2019.
The budget is based on various assumptions including market outlook, resource utilisation, contract backlog, contract margins and assumed contract awards.
Adjusted EBITA growth assumed in the 2019 business unit budgets ranges from 8% to 19%.
For 2020 a further 2% to 12% adjusted EBITA growth has been assumed.
Growth rates of 3% per annum have been assumed from 2021 for Asset Solutions EAAA and Specialist Technical Solutions and 2% per annum for Asset Solutions Americas and Environment and Infrastructure Solutions.
The growth rates assumed from 2021 have also been used in the calculation of the terminal value.
The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rates for the regions in which the CGUs operate.
The cash flows have been discounted using discount rates appropriate for each CGU, and these are reviewed annually.
The pre-tax rates used for the 2018 review are as follows 11.4% for Asset Solutions EAAA, 11.6% for Asset Solutions Americas, 11.8% for Specialist Technical Solutions and 11.4% for Environment and Infrastructure Solutions the equivalent post-tax rates are 9.5%, 9.5%, 10.0% and 9.25% respectively.
The carrying value of the goodwill for each CGU is shown in the table below.
No goodwill has been written off during the current or prior year.
Cash Generating Unit Goodwill carrying value $m Asset Solutions EAAA 2,068.5 Asset Solutions Americas 1,796.5 Specialist Technical Solutions 933.7 Environment and Infrastructure Solutions 599.8 The headroom on Asset Solutions EAAA based on the assumptions above was $274.0m.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed assuming a 1% reduction in the long-term growth rate and a 1% increase in the discount rate in order to assess the impact of reasonable possible changes to the assumptions used in the impairment review.
A 1% reduction in the long-term growth rate would result in an impairment of $79.0m and a 1% increase in the discount rate would result in an impairment of $97.0m.
If the adjusted EBITA growth assumed for 2020 and future periods did not materialise then an impairment could result.
The headroom on Environment and Infrastructure Solutions based on the assumptions above was $79.0m.
A 1% reduction in the long-term growth rate would result in an impairment of $47.0m and a 1% increase in the discount rate would result in an impairment of $54.0m.
The sensitivity analysis did not identify any potential impairments other than those mentioned above for Asset Solutions EAAA and Environment and Infrastructure Solutions.
Intangible assets arising on acquisition include the valuation of customer contracts and relationships, order backlog and brands recognised on business combinations.
As part of the annual impairment review, Group management has assessed whether there were any impairment triggers and none were identified.
Customer relationships relate mainly to the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler in 2017 and are being amortised over periods of 5 to 13 years.
Order backlog relates entirely to the acquisition of AFW and is being amortised over periods of 2 to 5 years.
Brands recognised relate entirely to the acquisition of AFW and are being amortised over a 20 year period.
Software and development costs includes internally generated assets with a net book value of $18.0m at 31 December 2018.
$6.5m of internally generated intangibles is included in additions in the year.
The software disposals in 2018 relate to the write off of fully depreciated assets that are no longer in use.
110 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 10 Property plant and equipment Land and Plant and Buildings equipment Total $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2018 123.6 266.4 390.0 Exchange movements 4.6 15.4 20.0 Additions 6.9 30.1 37.0 Acquisitions note 29 - 0.6 0.6 Disposals 8.9 36.9 45.8 Reclassifications 4.5 4.5 - Transferred to held for sale note 29 8.1 8.2 16.3 At 31 December 2018 104.4 241.1 345.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2018 37.1 119.4 156.5 Exchange movements 2.9 12.0 14.9 Charge for the year 13.6 38.0 51.6 Disposals 7.0 32.4 39.4 Impairment 0.7 - 0.7 Transferred to held for sale note 29 4.0 3.5 7.5 At 31 December 2018 37.5 109.5 147.0 Net book value at 31 December 2018 66.9 131.6 198.5 Cost At 1 January 2017 80.7 208.3 289.0 Exchange movements 5.6 13.1 18.7 Additions 1.2 20.9 22.1 Acquisitions 41.9 41.9 83.8 Disposals 5.8 23.6 29.4 Reclassifications - 5.8 5.8 At 31 December 2017 123.6 266.4 390.0 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 33.2 84.7 117.9 Exchange movements 1.2 14.0 15.2 Charge for the year 7.9 33.9 41.8 Disposals 5.6 19.9 25.5 Impairment 0.4 2.3 2.7 Reclassifications - 4.4 4.4 At 31 December 2017 37.1 119.4 156.5 Net book value at 31 December 2017 86.5 147.0 233.5 The net book value of Land and Buildings includes $41.3m 2017: $53.6m of Long Leasehold and Freehold property and $25.6m 2017: $32.9m of Short Leasehold property.
There were no material amounts in assets under construction at 31 December 2018.
There was no material land and buildings or plant and equipment held under finance leases at 31 December 2018 or 2017.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 11 Investment in joint ventures The Group operates a number of joint ventures companies, the most significant of which are its turbine JVs, EthosEnergy Group Limited and RWG Repair & Overhauls Limited.
The Group has a 51% shareholding in EthosEnergy, a provider of rotating equipment services and solutions to the power, oil and gas and industrial markets.
EthosEnergy is based in Aberdeen, Scotland.
The Group has a 50% shareholding in RWG, a provider of repair and overhaul services to the oil and gas, power generation and marine propulsion industries.
RWG is based in Aberdeen, Scotland.
The assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the EthosEnergy and RWG are shown below.
The financial information below has been extracted from the management accounts for these entities.
Managements estimate of fair value less costs of disposal was $29.0m which was lower than the book value and an impairment charge of $41.4m was recorded in the income statement.
The fair value is supported by third party market data.
If fair value less costs of disposal are ultimately less than $29.0m then a further impairment will be required.
At 31 December 2018, the Group does not believe it is likely that it will dispose of EthosEnergy within the next 12 months and it has not therefore been classified as held for sale.
EthosEnergys net borrowings, including parent company loans, at 31 December 2018 amounted to $110.6m 2017: $92.6m RWG had net borrowings at 31 December 2018 of $2.4m 2017: net cash $9.2m The aggregate carrying amount of the Groups other equity accounted joint ventures, which individually are not material, amounted to $82.4m at 31 December 2018 2017: $102.8m.
112 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 11 Investment in joint ventures continued The Groups share of its joint venture income and expenses is shown below.
2018 2017 $m $m Revenue 1,021.6 774.6 Cost of sales 873.3 650.7 Administrative expenses 79.8 73.6 Exceptional expense 9.6 1.1 Operating profit 58.9 49.2 Net finance expense 8.1 3.4 Profit before tax 50.8 45.8 Tax 16.4 14.5 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 34.4 31.3 The movement in investment in joint ventures is shown below.
$m At 1 January 2018 239.9 Exchange movements on retranslation of net assets 8.5 Additional investment in joint ventures 3.2 Disposals note 29 20.9 Share of net liabilities disposed on conversion to subsidiary note 29 1.1 Share of profit after tax 34.4 Impairment of investments 41.4 Dividends received 38.5 Transferred to assets held for sale note 29 1.1 At 31 December 2018 168.2 During 2018, the Group disposed of its interests in two of its equity joint ventures Voreas S. r. l, and Road Management Services A13 Holdings Limited.
The interests were recorded at $20.9m at the date of disposal.
See note 29 for further details of these disposals.
In addition, the Group increased its shareholding in Amec Foster Wheeler Energy and Partners Engineering Company and this company is now accounted for as a subsidiary.
The fair value of the investment disposed was $1.1m.
The Group invested an additional $3.2m in Lewis Wind Power Holdings Ltd during the year.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities in relation to its interest in the joint ventures.
A full list of subsidiary and joint venture entities is included in note 37.
Other investments Other investments include $76.4m 2017: $83.8m relating to the US SERP referred to in note 31.
The SERP invests in a mixture of equities, bonds and money market funds as part of a pension arrangement for US based employees.
The liabilities of the SERP are included in non-current liabilities see note 17.
12 Inventories 2018 2017 $m $m Materials 4.3 7.8 Work in progress 3.7 2.1 Finished goods and goods for resale 5.7 4.3 13.7 14.2 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 13 Trade and other receivables 2018 Restated $m 2017 $m Trade receivables 1,391.9 1,519.8 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 104.8 93.0 Trade receivables net 1,287.1 1,426.8 Gross amounts due from customers 935.1 804.8 Prepayments 157.2 131.6 Amounts due from joint ventures 97.2 131.2 Asbestos related insurance recoveries 16.3 18.0 Other receivables 62.8 71.8 Trade and other receivables current 2,555.7 2,584.2 Long term receivables asbestos related insurance recoveries 90.2 114.4 Long term receivables - other 37.9 43.1 Total receivables 2,683.8 2,741.7 Unbilled income of $278.3m that was included as Trade receivables at 31 December 2017 was reallocated to the Gross amounts due from customers line in the Groups 2018 interim accounts.
The adjustment referred to on page 92 has resulted in the reclassification of $31.6m to gross amounts due from customers at 31 December 2017.
$12.9m of gross amounts due from customers at 31 December 2017 was also written down as a fair value adjustment in relation to the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler.
As at 31 December 2018 the Group had received $153.5m 2017: nil of cash relating to a non-recourse financing arrangement with one of its banks.
An equivalent amount of trade receivables was derecognised on receipt of the cash.
2018 2017 Financial assets $m $m Bank deposits more than three months - 31.2 Restricted cash 11.7 26.5 Derivative financial instruments note 18 2.6 30.5 14.3 88.2 The restricted cash of $11.7m 2017: $26.5m is cash that is subject to an attachment order.
Management believe it is appropriate to include the restricted cash balance in the Groups net debt figure see note 28.
Bank deposits of more than three months at 31st December 2017 were short term instruments held by the Groups insurance captives.
114 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 13 Trade and other receivables continued The Groups trade receivables balance is shown in the table below.
Trade Trade receivables - Provision for receivables Gross impairment Net Receivable 31 December 2018 $m $m $m days Asset Solutions EAAA 470.4 50.3 420.1 62 Asset Solutions Americas 396.1 21.9 374.2 44 Specialist Technical Solutions 197.7 9.1 188.6 72 Environment and Infrastructure Solutions 263.8 6.2 257.6 96 Investment Services 63.9 17.3 46.6 150 Total Group 1,391.9 104.8 1,287.1 64 31 December 2017 Asset Solutions EAAA 493.8 48.7 445.1 76 Asset Solutions Americas 526.8 24.7 502.1 52 Specialist Technical Solutions 186.6 12.5 174.1 78 Environment and Infrastructure Solutions 242.8 4.5 238.3 109 Investment Services 69.8 2.6 67.2 64 Total Group 1,519.8 93.0 1,426.8 71 Receivable days are calculated by allocating the closing trade receivables balance to current and prior period revenue.
A receivable days calculation of 64 indicates that closing trade receivables represent the most recent 64 days of revenue.
A provision for the impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the terms of the original receivables.
The ageing of the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Up to 3 months 2.1 1.1 Over 3 months 102.7 91.9 104.8 93.0 The movement on the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: Asset Asset Specialist Environment & Solutions Solutions Technical Infrastructure Investment EAAA Americas Solutions Solutions Services Total 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 48.7 24.7 12.5 4.5 2.6 93.0 Exchange movements 2.5 - - - - 2.5 Provided during year 4.9 6.3 2.6 1.8 17.7 33.3 Released during year 0.8 9.1 6.0 - 3.1 19.0 At 31 December 50.3 21.9 9.1 6.3 17.2 104.8 2017 At 1 January 12.1 11.9 0.7 - - 24.7 Exchange movements 1.4 - 0.1 - - 1.5 Acquisitions 39.0 19.5 15.7 4.3 2.5 81.0 Provided during year 0.7 0.1 0.9 0.6 0.2 2.5 Released during year 4.5 6.8 4.9 0.4 0.1 16.7 At 31 December 48.7 24.7 12.5 4.5 2.6 93.0 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 13 Trade and other receivables continued Included within gross trade receivables of $1,391.9m above 2017: $1,519.8m are receivables of $449.6m 2017: $581.0m which were past due but not impaired.
These relate to customers for whom there is no recent history or expectation of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Up to 3 months overdue 197.9 365.3 Over 3 months overdue 251.7 215.7 449.6 581.0 The above analysis excludes retentions relating to contracts in progress of $104.5m 2016: $118.5m.
14 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 $m $m Cash at bank and in hand 1,335.2 1,205.5 Short-term bank deposits 17.5 20.0 1,352.7 1,225.5 Cash at bank and in hand at 31 December 2018 includes $942.0m 2017: $533.4m that is part of the Groups cash pooling arrangements and both cash and borrowings are grossed up by this amount in the financial statements.
Cash of $24.2m is included in assets held for sale see note 29.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits at 31 December 2018 was 3.2% and these deposits have an average maturity of 59 days.
15 Trade and other payables 2018 Restated $m 2017 $m Trade payables 1,050.3 782.7 Gross amounts due to customers 407.5 450.8 Other tax and social security payable 71.8 74.5 Accruals and deferred income 567.4 569.0 Deferred and contingent consideration note 18 21.8 36.8 Finance leases note 34 9.8 18.6 Derivative financial instruments 7.2 11.8 Amounts due to joint ventures 3.1 14.3 Asbestos related payables 51.2 50.8 Other payables 336.0 293.1 2,526.1 2,302.4 Gross amounts due to customers included above represent payments on account received in excess of amounts due from customers on fixed price contracts.
The adjustment referred to on page 92 has resulted in the reclassification of trade and other payables to provisions at 31 December 2017.
A total of $162.6m has been reclassified, $9.9m from trade payables, $14.9m from amounts due to customers, $62.7m from accruals and $75.1m from other payables.
As a result of the remeasurement adjustments recorded in respect of the acquisition of AFW, accruals at 31 December 2017 have been increased by $19.6m and other creditors reduced by $2.2m.
Accruals and deferred income includes amounts due to suppliers and sub-contractors that have not yet been invoiced, unpaid wages, salaries and bonuses.
Deferred and contingent consideration represents amounts payable on acquisitions made by the Group.
The amount included in the table above is expected to be paid within one year from the balance sheet date.
116 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 16 Borrowings 2018 2017 $m $m Bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand Unsecured 984.5 543.2 Non-current bank loans Unsecured 1,542.3 1,961.1 Senior loan notes Unsecured 375.0 375.0 Total non-current borrowings 1,917.3 2,336.1 Borrowings of $942.0m 2017: $533.4m that are part of the Groups cash pooling arrangements and are netted against cash for internal reporting purposes are grossed up in the short-term borrowings figure above.
Bank overdrafts are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest based on LIBOR or the relevant foreign currency equivalent.
Total facilities comprise a 5 year $1.75bn revolving credit facility and a $0.9bn 3 year term loan.
The Group has $375.0m of unsecured senior loan notes issued in the US private placement market.
The notes mature in 2021, 2024 and 2026 and interest is payable at an average fixed rate of 3.74%.
Of the total non-current borrowings of $1,917.3m, $268.3m is denominated in sterling with the balance in US dollars.
The effective interest rates on the Groups bank loans and overdrafts at the balance sheet date were as follows: 2018 2017 % % US dollar 3.57 2.58 Sterling 2.09 1.80 Euro 1.15 1.15 Australian dollar 2.36 2.38 Norwegian kroner 1.34 1.08 The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 $m $m US Dollar 2,177.2 2,284.9 Sterling 625.9 478.1 Euro 51.0 8.1 Australian dollar 35.8 88.2 Norwegian kroner 6.7 14.6 Other 5.2 5.4 2,901.8 2,879.3 The Group is required to issue tender bonds, performance bonds, retention bonds, advance payment bonds and standby letters of credit to certain customers.
At 31 December 2018, the Groups bank facilities relating to the issue of bonds, guarantees and letters of credit amounted to $1,720.7m 2017: $1,831.3m.
At 31 December 2018, these facilities were 55% utilised 2017: 54%.
Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities available at 31 December: 2018 2017 $m $m Expiring within one year 162.2 143.5 Expiring between two and five years 1,091.4 692.0 1,253.6 835.5 All undrawn borrowing facilities are floating rate facilities.
The facilities expiring within one year are annual facilities subject to review at various dates during 2019.
Total facilities comprise a 5 year $1.75bn revolving credit facility expiring in May 2022 and a $0.9bn 3 year term loan expiring in October 2020.
The Group was in compliance with its bank covenants throughout the year.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 17 Other non-current liabilities 2018 2017 $m $m Deferred and contingent consideration note 18 4.8 24.4 Finance leases note 34 25.2 31.4 Other payables 194.4 256.5 224.4 312.3 Deferred and contingent consideration represents amounts payable on acquisitions made by the Group.
The amount included in the table above is expected to be paid between one and three years from the balance sheet date.
Other payables include $76.4m 2017: $83.8m relating to the US SERP pension arrangement referred to in note 31 and unfavourable leases of $70.7m 2017: $115.0m.
Unfavourable leases recognised on acquisition are initially measured at fair value, are amortised over the life of the lease and are presented as other payables.
18 Financial instruments The Groups activities give rise to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk and cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management strategy is to hedge exposures wherever practicable in order to minimise any potential adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by the Group Treasury department in line with the Groups Treasury policies.
Group Treasury, together with the Groups business units identify, evaluate and where appropriate, hedge financial risks.
The Groups Treasury policies cover specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess cash.
Where the Board considers that a material element of the Groups profits and net assets are exposed to a country in which there is significant geo-political uncertainty a strategy is agreed to ensure that the risk is minimised.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currencies.
The Group has subsidiary companies whose revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar.
Where possible, the Groups policy is to eliminate all significant currency exposures at the time of the transaction by using financial instruments such as forward currency contracts.
Changes in the forward contract fair values are booked through the income statement, except where hedge accounting is used in which case the change in fair value is recorded in equity.
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk cash flow hedges The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of forward contracts and currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges at the balance sheet date are shown in the table below.
2018 2017 2018 2017 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value $m $m $m $m Current assets 37.7 157.9 0.5 5.4 Current liabilities 50.3 36.4 2.0 0.9 A net foreign exchange loss of $1.4m 2017: gain $0.7m was recognised in the hedging reserve as a result of fair value movements on forward contract and currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges.
118 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 18 Financial instruments continued Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk fair value through income statement The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair value of all other forward contracts and currency swaps at the balance sheet date are shown in the table below.
2018 2017 2018 2017 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value $m $m $m $m Current assets 236.4 973.8 2.1 24.5 Current liabilities 160.4 651.7 1.9 10.9 The Groups largest foreign exchange risk relates to movements in the sterling US dollar exchange rate.
Movements in the sterling US dollar rate impact the translation of sterling profit earned in the UK and the translation of sterling denominated net assets.
The potential impact of changes in the sterling US dollar exchange rate is summarised in the table below.
As the Group reports in US dollars a weakening of the pound has a negative impact on translation of its sterling companies profits and net assets.
2018 2017 $m $m Impact of 10% increase to average $ exchange rate on profit after tax 2.4 4.0 Impact of 10% increase to closing $ exchange rate on equity 134.2 178.1 10% has been used in these calculations as it represents a reasonable possible change in the sterling US dollar exchange rate.
The Group also has foreign exchange risk in relation a number of other currencies, such as the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and the Euro.
ii Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and debt.
The Group borrows in the desired currencies at a mixture of fixed and floating rates of interest and then uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest profile and to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
At 31 December 2018, 21% 2017: 15% of the Groups borrowings were at fixed rates after taking account of interest rate swaps.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on cash held on deposit.
The Groups policy is to maximise the return on cash deposits and where possible, deposit cash with a financial institution with a credit rating of A or better.
Hedging of interest rate risk cash flow hedges The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair value of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges at the balance sheet date are shown in the table below.
2018 2017 2018 2017 Carrying Carrying Hedged Hedged amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value $m $m $m $m Interest rate swaps 250.0 60.0 3.3 0.6 A net foreign exchange loss of $3.3m 2017: gain $0.6m was recognised in the hedging reserve as a result of fair value movements on interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges.
If average interest rates had been 1% higher or lower during 2018 2017: 1%, post-tax profit for the year would have been $13.9m lower or higher respectively 2017: $4.5m.
1% has been used in this calculation as it represents a reasonable possible change in interest rates.
iii Price risk The Group is not exposed to any significant price risk in relation to its financial instruments.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 18 Financial instruments continued b Credit risk The Groups credit risk primarily relates to its trade receivables.
Responsibility for managing credit risk lies within the businesses with support being provided by Group and divisional management where appropriate.
The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of each tender review process and is addressed initially through contract payment terms.
Trade finance instruments such as letters of credit, bonds, guarantees and credit insurance are used to manage credit risk where appropriate.
Credit control practices are applied thereafter during the project execution phase.
A right to interest and suspension is normally sought in all contracts.
There is significant management focus on customers that are classified as high risk in the current challenging market although the Group had no material write offs in the year.
The Groups major customers are typically large companies which have strong credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Where a customer does not have sufficiently strong credit ratings, alternative forms of security such as the trade finance instruments referred to above may be obtained.
The Group has a broad customer base and management believe that no further credit risk provision is required in excess of the provision for impairment of trade receivables.
Management review trade receivables across the Group based on receivable days calculations to assess performance.
A table showing trade receivables and receivable days is provided in note 13.
Receivable days calculations are not provided on non-trade receivables as management do not believe that this information is a relevant metric.
The maximum credit risk exposure on cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits more than three months at 31December2018 was $1,388.6m 2017: $1,283.2m.
The Group treasury department monitors counterparty exposure on a global basis to avoid any over exposure to any one counterparty.
The Groups policy is to deposit cash at institutions with a credit rating of A or better where possible.
100% of cash held on deposit at 31 December 2018 was held with such institutions.
c Liquidity risk The Groups policy is to ensure the availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future forecast requirements consistent with the Groups budget and strategic plans.
The Group will finance operations and growth from its existing cash resources and the $1,253.6m undrawn portion of the Groups committed banking facilities.
At 31 December 2018, 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups principal borrowing facilities including senior loan notes were due to mature in more than one year.
Based on the Groups latest forecasts the Group has sufficient funding in place to meet its future obligations.
The Group has $375m of unsecured senior loan notes issued in the US private placement market.
The notes mature in 2021, 2024 and 2026. d Capital risk The Group seeks to maintain an optimal capital structure by monitoring its ratio of net debt to EBITDA, its interest cover and its gearing ratio.
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA at 31 December 2018 was 2.2 times 2017: 2.4 times.
This ratio is calculated in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the Groups bank facility agreement.
Net debt and EBITDA are adjusted to exclude the cash and profits of the Groups insurance captives and EBITDA is adjusted to add back share-based charges, to exclude the results of businesses disposed of during the year and to include the results of businesses acquired during the year as if they were acquired on 1 January.
Interest cover is calculated by dividing adjusted EBITA by net finance expense and was 6.4 times for the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: 5.9 times.
This ratio is also calculated in accordance with the methodology prescribed in the bank facility agreement.
EBITA is adjusted to exclude the profits of the Groups insurance captives, to add back share-based charges, to exclude the results of businesses disposed of during the year and to include the results of businesses acquired during the year as if they were acquired on 1 January.
Interest is adjusted to excluded non-cash interest charges in relation to pensions and discounting of liabilities.
Gearing is calculated by dividing net debt by equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Deferred and contingent consideration Deferred and contingent consideration is payable on the acquisition of businesses based on earn out arrangements and is initially recognised at fair value.
The amount payable is dependent on the post-acquisition profits of the acquired entities and the provision made is based on the Groups estimate of the likely profits of those entities based on the relevant Acquisition Approval Paper submitted to the Group Board.
Where actual profits are higher or lower than the Groups estimate and the amount of contingent consideration payable is consequently different to the amount estimated then the variance is charged or credited to the income statement.
Where deferred and contingent consideration is payable after more than one year the estimated liability is discounted using an appropriate rate of interest.
The fair value of contingent consideration is not based on observable market data and as such the valuation method is classified as level 3.
The process for valuation is consistently applied to all acquisitions.
120 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 18 Financial instruments continued The table below presents the changes in level 3 financial instruments during the year: 2018 2017 Contingent consideration arising from business combinations $m $m At 1 January 61.2 92.7 Exchange movements 1.0 1.8 Amounts provided in relation to new acquisitions - 14.0 Interest relating to discounting of contingent consideration 1.0 2.3 Payments during the year 36.8 32.1 Amounts charged released to the income statement 2.2 17.5 At 31 December 26.6 61.2 Financial liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2018 $m $m $m $m Borrowings 1,053.7 958.2 805.6 316.2 Trade and other payables 2,454.3 - - - Other non-current liabilities - 150.9 76.4 - At 31 December 2017 Borrowings 607.8 64.6 2,162.1 327.6 Trade and other payables 2,227.9 - - - Other non-current liabilities - 224.5 88.8 - Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities The fair value of short-term borrowings, trade and other payables, trade and other receivables, financial assets, short-term deposits and cash at bank and in hand approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of interest rates in respect of these instruments.
The fair value of the US Private Placement debt at 31 December 2018 was $366.9m book value $375.0m.
Fair values excluding the fair value of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are determined using observable market prices level 2 as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement as follows: The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is estimated by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market rates.
All derivative fair values are verified by comparison to valuations provided by the derivative counterparty banks.
The Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
During the year ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, there were no transfers into or out of level 2 fair value measurements.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 19 Provisions Obligations Asbestos relating to related Project related disposed Other litigation provisions businesses provisions Total $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2018 as reported 511.6 148.7 101.1 104.5 865.9 Fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler - 131.8 - 27.6 159.4 Reclassification see page 91 - 92.1 15.1 23.8 131.0 At 1 January 2018 as restated 511.6 372.6 116.2 155.9 1,156.3 Exchange movements 4.1 1.3 5.1 5.7 16.2 Utilised 48.1 69.3 2.9 50.4 170.7 Charge to income statement - - - 26.2 26.2 Released to income statement 7.8 5.1 12.1 - 25.0 Change in discount rate 9.0 - - - 9.0 Unwinding of discount 10.8 - - - 10.8 Reclassifications - 5.0 - 13.8 18.8 At 31 December 2018 453.4 301.9 96.1 139.8 991.2 Presented as Current - 104.7 6.5 23.1 134.3 Non-current 453.4 197.2 89.6 116.7 856.9 At 31 December 2017, the Group had not fully finalised its assessment of the fair value of certain AFW assets and liabilities and the 2017 financial statements reflected the provisional assessment of the fair values at the acquisition date.
During 2018, the Group has reassessed those fair values as a result of new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date, and recorded measurement period adjustments of $159.4m in provisions.
Following the acquisition of AFW, the Group has reviewed the classification of provisions and made adjustments to align the treatment of balances between legacy AFW and legacy Wood Group as well as adjusting for the immaterial classification impact of certain balances following the adoption of IFRS 15.
A net amount of $131.0m has been reclassified to provisions with trade and other payables being reduced by $162.6m and trade and other receivables being reduced by $31.6m.
Asbestos related litigation The Group assumed the majority of its asbestos-related liabilities when it acquired Amec Foster Wheeler in October 2017.
Whilst some of the asbestos claims have been and are expected to be made in the United Kingdom, the overwhelming majority have been and are expected to be made in the United States.
Amec Foster Wheelers US subsidiaries are defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and out-of-court informal claims pending.
Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to, or use of, asbestos in connection with work allegedly performed during the 1970s and earlier.
The estimates and averages presented have been calculated on the basis of the historical US asbestos claims since the initiation of claims filed against these entities.
The number and cost of current and future asbestos claims in the US could be substantially higher than estimated and the timing of payment of claims could be sooner than estimated, which could adversely affect the Groups financial position, its results and its cash flows.
Some Amec Foster Wheeler US subsidiaries are named as defendants in numerous lawsuits and out-of-court administrative claims pending in the US in which the plaintiffs claim damages for alleged bodily injury or death arising from exposure to asbestos in connection with work performed, or heat exchange devices assembled, installed and or sold, by these entities.
The Group expects these subsidiaries to be named as defendants in similar suits and that new claims will be filed in the future.
For purposes of these financial statements, management have estimated the indemnity and defence costs to be incurred in resolving pending and forecasted claims through to 2050.
Although we believe that these estimates are reasonable, the actual number of future claims brought against the Group and the cost of resolving these claims could be higher.
122 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 19 Provisions continued Some of the factors that may result in the costs of asbestos claims being higher than the current estimates include: an increase in the rate at which new claims are filed and an increase in the number of new claimants increases in legal fees or other defence costs associated with asbestos claims increases in indemnity payments, decreases in the proportion of claims dismissed with zero payment and payments being required to be made sooner than expected The Group has worked with its advisors with respect to projecting asbestos liabilities and to estimate the amount of asbestos-related indemnity and defence costs at each year-end through to 2050.
Each year the Group records its estimated asbestos liability at a level consistent with the advisors reasonable best estimate.
The Groups advisors perform a quarterly and annual review of asbestos indemnity payments, defence costs and claims activity and compare them to the forecast prepared at the previous year-end.
Based on its review, they may recommend that the assumptions used to estimate future asbestos liability are updated, as appropriate.
The total liability recorded in the Groups balance sheet at 31 December 2018 is based on estimated indemnity and defence costs expected to be incurred to 2050.
Management believe that any new claims filed after 2050 will be minimal.
Asbestos related liabilities and assets recognised on the Groups balance sheet are as follows: 2018 2017 US UK Total US UK Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Asbestos related provision Gross provision 543.3 61.7 605.0 589.0 73.2 662.2 Effect of discounting 100.4 - 100.4 99.8 - 99.8 Net provision 442.9 61.7 504.6 489.2 73.2 562.4 Insurance recoveries Gross recoveries 52.2 57.2 109.4 66.8 68.5 135.3 Effect of discounting 2.9 - 2.9 2.9 - 2.9 Net recoveries 49.3 57.2 106.5 63.9 68.5 132.4 Net asbestos related liabilities 393.6 4.5 398.1 425.3 4.7 430.0 Presented in accounts as follows Provisions non-current 453.4 511.6 Trade and other payables 51.2 50.8 Trade and other receivables 16.3 18.0 Long term receivables 90.2 114.4 398.1 430.0 In connection with updating the estimated asbestos liability and related assets, a net interest charge of $9.7m for the time value of money and a yield curve credit of $9.0m for increases in the US Federal funds rate in 2018 have been recorded.
A summary of the Groups US asbestos claim activity is shown in the table below: 2018 2017 Number of open claims Number Number At 1 January 70,120 81,720 New claims 2,700 3,200 Claims resolved 8,450 14,800 At 31 December 64,370 70,120 Claims not valued in liability 50,160 54,750 Open claims valued in liability at 31 December 14,210 15,370 Claims not valued in the liability include claims on certain inactive court dockets, claims over six years old that are considered abandoned and certain other items.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 19 Provisions continued Based on its review of 2018 activity, the Groups advisors recommended no material changes to the current forecast other than adjustments for payments made in 2018 and the present value of interest.
In 2018, the liability for asbestos indemnity and defence costs to 2050 was calculated at gross nominal amount of $543.3m present value $442.9m, which brought the liability to a level consistent with our advisors reasonable best estimate.
The total asbestos-related liabilities are comprised of estimates for liabilities relating to open outstanding claims being valued and the liability for future unasserted claims to 2050.
The estimate takes account of the following information and or assumptions: number of open claims forecasted number of future claims estimated average cost per claim by disease type mesothelioma, lung cancer and non-malignancies The total estimated liability, which has been discounted for the time value of money, includes both the estimate of forecasted indemnity amounts and forecasted defence costs.
Total defence costs and indemnity liability payments are estimated to be incurred through to 2050.
The Group believes that it is likely that there will be some claims filed after 2050, however these are projected to be minimal.
In the period from 2009 to 2018, the average combined indemnity and defence cost per resolved claim has been approximately $5k.
The average cost per resolved claim is increasing and management believe it will continue to increase in the future.
A sensitivity analysis on average indemnity settlement and defence costs is included in the table below.
Asbestos related receivables represents managements best estimate of insurance recoveries relating to liabilities for pending and estimated future asbestos claims through to 2050.
The receivables are only recognised when it is virtually certain that the claim will be paid.
The Groups asbestos-related assets have been discounted at an appropriate rate of interest.
The following table sets out the sensitivities associated with a change in certain estimates used in relation to the US asbestosrelated liabilities: Impact on asbestos liabilities range Assumption $m 25% change in average indemnity settlement amount 60-70 25% change in forecasted number of new claims 50-60 25% change in estimated defence costs 40-50 In addition to the above, the impact on the income statement in the year is sensitive to changes in the discount rate used to calculate the time value of money.
A change of 0.1% in the 10 year US federal funds rate would give rise to a change to the income statement charge credit of approximately $3m.
The Groups subsidiaries have been effective in managing the asbestos litigation, in part, because the Group has access to historical project documents and other business records going back more than 50 years, allowing it to defend itself by determining if the claimants were present at the location of the alleged asbestos exposure and, if so, the timing and extent of their presence.
In addition, the Group has identified and validated insurance policies issued since 1952 and has consistently and vigorously defended claims that are without merit and settled meritorious claims for reasonable amounts.
The table below summarises the US asbestos-related net cash impact for indemnity and defence costs and collection of insurance proceeds: 2018 2017 $m $m Asbestos litigation, defence and case resolution payments 46.6 50.6 Insurance proceeds 14.6 16.4 Net asbestos related payments 32.0 34.2 The Group expects to have a net cash outflow of $35.1m as a result of asbestos liability indemnity and defence payments in excess of insurance proceeds during 2019.
This estimate assumes no settlements with insurance companies and no elections by the Group to fund additional payments.
As the Group continues to collect cash from insurance settlements, the asbestos-related insurance receivable recorded on our consolidated balance sheet will continue to decrease.
The Group has discounted the expected future cash flows with respect to the asbestos related liabilities and the expected insurance recoveries using discount rates determined by reference to appropriate risk free market interest rates.
Project related provisions The Group has numerous provisions relating to the projects it undertakes for its customers.
The value of these provisions rely on project specific judgements and estimates in areas such as the estimate of future costs or the outcome of disputes and litigation.
Whether or not each of these provisions will be required, the exact amount that will require to be paid and the timing of any payment will depend on the actual outcomes.
124 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Environmental obligations 19 Provisions continued Certain of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, in particular the US and the EU, have environmental laws under Aegis Poland This legacy AFW project involves the construction of various which current and past owners or operators of property may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of removal or remediation buildings to house the Aegis Ashore anti-missile defence facility for the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
The project of toxic or hazardous substances on or under their property, regardless of whether such materials were released in violation was around 65% complete by value at 31 December 2018 and is expected to be operationally complete towards the end of 2019. of law and whether the operator or owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances.
Largely as a Managements latest estimate is that the loss at completion will be $100.0m representingthe expected cost to complete less consequence of the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler, the Group currently owns and operates, or owned and operated, estimated revenue to be earned.
The full amount of this loss has been included in provisions.
In reaching its assessment of this loss, industrial facilities.
It is likely that, as a result of the Groups current or former operations, hazardous substances have affected the management have made certain estimates and assumptions relating to the date of completion, productivity of workers on property on which those facilities are or were situated.
The Group has also received and may continue to receive claims pursuant site and the costs to complete.
If the actual outcome differs from these estimates and assumptions, the ultimate loss will be to indemnity obligations from the present owners of facilities we have transferred, which may require us to incur costs for different.
In addition, the Groups assessment of the ultimate loss includes change orders which have not been agreed with the investigation and or remediation.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group held provisions totalling $36.1m for the estimated future customer and managements assessment of liquidated damages and the current estimate is that these will not be settled until environmental clean-up costs in relation to industrial facilities that it no longer operates.
Whilst the timing of the related cash 2021.
If the amounts agreed are different to the assumptions made then the ultimate loss will be different.
flows is typically uncertain, the Group expects that certain of its remediation obligations may continue for up to 60 years.
Chemical Plant Litigation in the United States In 2013, one of Amec Foster Wheeler plcs subsidiaries Project and environmental litigation contracted to engineer, procure and construct a chemical The Group is party to litigation involving clients and subplant for a client in Texas.
In December 2015 the client partially contractors arising out of project contracts.
Management has terminated the contract and in September 2016, terminated taken internal and external legal advice in considering known the remainder of the contract and commenced a lawsuit in or reasonably likely legal claims and actions by and against the Texas against the subsidiary and also Amec Foster Wheeler Group.
Where a known or likely claim or action is identified, plc, seeking damages for breach of contract and warranty, management carefully assesses the likelihood of success of gross negligence, and fraud.
The claim amount is unspecified the claim or action.
Generally, a provision is recognised only in but the client alleges that the projected cost for the assigned respect of those claims or actions where management consider scope of work is approximately $800 million above the alleged it is probable that a settlement will be required.
Additionally, estimate and that the subsidiarys delays have caused it to however, the Group recognises provisions for known or likely suffer continuing monthly damages of $25 million due to the claims against an acquired business if, at the acquisition date, alleged late completion of the facility and resultant delay to the it is possible that the claim or action will be successful and its clients ability to sell the expected products from the facility.
We amount can be reliably estimated.
understand that the facility was completed mechanically in late Provision is made for managements best estimate of the likely 2017 and began commercial operation in early 2018.
The client settlement costs and or damages to be awarded for those seeks recovery of actual and punitive damages, as well as the claims and actions that management considers are likely to be disgorgement of the full project fixed fee paid to the subsidiary successful.
Due to the inherent commercial, legal and technical approximately $66.5 million.
uncertainties in estimating project claims, the amounts The Group believes that the claims lack legal and factual merit ultimately paid or realised by the Group could differ materially but have provided for an amount representing the fair value from the amounts that are recognised in the financial of the exposure upon acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler.
An estimate of future legal costs is included only in The estimate that the subsidiary provided was in connection the litigation provision acquired from Amec Foster Wheeler as with the clients initial request for a lump sum bid and highly on a fair value basis it is reasonable to include this as it reflects conditioned.
The contract that was ultimately signed, and what would be paid by a third party to assume the liability.
which governs the dispute, is a reimbursable cost plus fixed The balance of project related provisions relates to a number of fee contract, with no guaranteed price or schedule, wherein project provisions which are not individually material or significant.
the client assumed joint responsibility for management of the work and development of the project schedule.
Liability for Obligations related to disposed businesses consequential damages is barred, except in the case of wilful misconduct.
Except for gross negligence, wilful misconduct, As described in note 33, the Group agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and or assets that were and warranty claims, overall liability is capped at 10 percent of the contract price or approximately $100 million.
Amec previously owned by the Group and were sold to them.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group recognised indemnity provisions Foster Wheeler has denied the claims and intend to vigorously defend the lawsuit.
It has also interposed a counterclaim in an totalling $96.1m 2017: $116.2m.
Indemnity provisions principally relate to businesses that were sold by Amec Foster amount to be determined.
The lawsuit is in the early stages of proceedings and it would be premature to predict the ultimate Wheeler prior to its acquisition by the Group.
The Group has a provision of $67.0m as at 31 December 2018 on this project against disallowed costs Other provisions and warranties, which includes $29.0m included as a fair value At 31 December 2018, other provisions of $139.8m 2017: $155.9m adjustment on the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler.
This amount includes warranty provisions in respect of guarantees provided in the normal course of business relating to contract performance, property related provisions and amounts provided by the Groups insurance captives.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 20 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate applicable to the territory in which the asset or liability has arisen.
The UK rate of corporation tax, currently 19%, will reduce to 17% in April 2020.
The Group has provided deferred tax in relation to UK companies at 18% 2017: 18%.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: As at 1 Income As at 31 January 2018 statement OCI Other December 2018 Asset liability $m $m $m $m $m Accelerated capital allowances 10.7 2.2 1.2 0.1 14.2 Intangibles 307.7 16.5 6.2 0.4 284.6 Pension 52.3 1.1 15.5 0.1 66.8 Share based charges 13.6 3.3 1.3 1.9 13.7 Other temporary differences 7.8 5.0 5.5 1.9 9.2 Provisions 213.1 12.0 4.1 1.8 198.8 Unremitted earnings 48.1 3.5 2.1 - 42.5 Tax credits 27.2 0.5 0.1 25.1 1.5 Deferred interest deduction 0.3 17.2 0.5 - 17.0 Losses 140.1 25.5 4.1 - 161.5 Total 32.3 47.4 13.0 26.9 24.8 As at As reported at Remeasurement Restated as at 1 January Income 31 December of fair value 31 December 2017 Acquisitions statement OCI Other 2017 adjustments 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Accelerated capital 41.4 25.8 8.2 0.3 3.6 10.7 - 10.7 allowances Intangibles 13.0 396.6 114.2 5.2 2.6 298.0 9.7 307.7 Pension 1.4 48.0 2.0 4.9 1.2 52.3 - 52.3 Share based charges 17.3 3.9 2.2 5.6 0.2 13.6 - 13.6 Other temporary 9.0 21.3 30.0 3.8 30.7 7.8 - 7.8 differences Provisions 76.5 157.6 55.6 0.6 2.7 181.8 31.3 213.1 Unremitted earnings 9.8 51.0 13.2 - 0.5 48.1 - 48.1 Tax credits - 51.3 0.4 - 23.7 27.2 - 27.2 Deferred interest 10.7 - 10.4 - - 0.3 - 0.3 deduction Losses 35.9 58.6 23.1 1.7 1.7 121.0 19.1 140.1 Total 86.6 219.7 58.1 9.3 11.3 73.0 40.7 32.3 Deferred tax is presented in the financial statements as follows: Restated 2018 2017 $m $m Deferred tax assets 87.8 108.5 Deferred tax liabilities 112.6 140.8 Net deferred tax liability 24.8 32.3 126 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 20 Deferred tax continued No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of $22,052.9m of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is not probable that such differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of these unremitted earnings is estimated to be $22.7m.
Under current legislation, earnings remitted to the UK from subsidiaries located in EEA countries are exempt from tax.
Uncertainty over the outcome of Brexit could result in existing tax treaty rates being applied which would result in an estimated increase to the unrecognised deferred tax liability of $7.8m.
Recognition of $65.8m of deferred tax assets in relation to the US tax group is based on forecast profits of the US businesses.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
The deferred tax balance at 31 December 2017 has been restated to reflect the finalisation of the acquisition accounting in relation to Amec Foster Wheeler as described on page 110.
The deferred tax balances are analysed below:- 31 December 2018 Accelerated Share Other Deferred capital based temporary Unremitted Tax interest allowances Intangibles Pension charges differences Provisions earnings credits deduction Losses Netting Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Deferred 30.2 129.6 6.7 13.7 12.4 198.8 - 1.5 17.0 161.5 483.6 87.8 tax assets Deferred 44.4 414.2 73.5 - 21.6 - 42.5 - - - 483.6 112.6 tax liabilities Net 14.2 284.6 66.8 13.7 9.2 198.8 42.5 1.5 17.0 161.5 - 24.8 31 December 2017 restated Accelerated Share Other Deferred capital based temporary Unremitted Tax interest allowances Intangibles Pension charges differences Provisions earnings credits deduction Losses Netting Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Deferred 34.5 150.1 6.7 13.6 35.3 213.1 - 27.2 0.3 140.1 512.4 108.5 tax assets Deferred 45.2 457.8 59.0 - 43.1 - 48.1 - - - 512.4 140.8 tax liabilities Net 10.7 307.7 52.3 13.6 7.8 213.1 48.1 27.2 0.3 140.1 - 32.3 At 31 December 2018, the expiry dates of unrecognised gross deferred tax assets carried forward are as follows: Deductible temporary Tax losses differences Total $m $m $m Expiring within 5 years 1,795.3 101.2 1,896.5 Expiring within 6-10 years - 85.7 85.7 Expiring within 11-20 years 358.8 - 358.8 Unlimited 2,554.9 875.7 3,430.6 4,709.0 1,062.6 5,771.6 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 21 Share based charges The Group currently has a number of share schemes that give rise to equity settled share based charges.
These are the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, the Long Term Retention Plan LTRP, the Long Term Plan LTP and the Employee Share Plan.
The charge to operating profit for these schemes for the year amounted to $18.7m 2017: $10.2m and is included in administrative expenses with the corresponding credit included in retained earnings.
The assumptions made in arriving at the charge for each scheme are detailed below.
ESOS and LTRP For the purposes of calculating the fair value of the share options, a Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used.
Based on past experience, it has been assumed that options will be exercised, on average, six months after the earliest exercise date, which is four years after grant date, and there will be a lapse rate of 25% for ESOS and 20% for LTRP.
The share price volatility used in the calculation of 40% is based on the actual volatility of the Groups shares as well as that of comparable companies.
The risk free rate of return is based on the implied yield available on zero coupon gilts with a term remaining equal to the expected lifetime of the options at the date of grant.
Long Term Plan The Groups Long Term Plan LTP was introduced in 2013.
There are two distinct awards made under the LTP.
Nil value share options are awarded on the same basis as awards under the LTRP see above.
In addition, awards to senior management are made based on achievement of performance measures, these being total shareholder return, adjusted diluted earnings per share and synergies.
Participants may be granted conditional share awards or nil cost options at the start of the cycle.
Performance is measured over a three year period and up to 80% of an award may vest based on the performance over that period.
The vesting of at least 20% of any award is normally deferred for a further period of at least two years.
Performance based awards Details of the LTP awards are set out in the table below.
The charge for market related performance targets has been calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking account of share price volatility against peer group companies, risk free rate of return, dividend yield and the expected lifetime of the award.
Further details of the LTP are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Cycle 6 7 8 9 10 11 Performance period 2013-15 2014-16 2015-17 2016-18 2017-19 2018-20 Fair value of awards 7.53 7.26 5.95 5.82 8.54 6.67 Type of award Options Options Options Options Options Options Outstanding at 31 12 18 3,136 93,275 79,594 2,543,147 2,004,407 4,427,002 In addition to the awards above, 846,106 2017: 960,633 options are outstanding at 31 December 2018 in respect of awards made under the Amec Foster Wheeler Long Term Incentive Plan.
These awards were converted to Wood Group awards following the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler on 6 October 2017.
The fair value of these awards is 7.00.
128 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 21 Share based charges continued The awards outstanding under cycles 6, 7 and 8 represent 20% of the award at vesting which is deferred for two years.
Further details on the LTP are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Share options A summary of the basis for the charge for ESOS, LTRP and LTP options is set out below together with the number of options granted, exercised and lapsed during the year.
Long Term Retention Plan The following options granted under the Groups LTRP were outstanding at 31 December: Number of ordinary shares under option Exercise price Exercise Year of Grant 2018 2017 per share period 2 2013 - 73,947 4 p 2017-2018 7 - 73,947 Options are granted under the Groups LTRP at par value.
There are no performance criteria attached to the exercise of options under the LTRP.
There are performance criteria relating to the creation of the pool available but none relating to the exercise of the options.
Employee share plan The Group introduced an Employee Share Plan in 2016.
Under the plan employees contribute regular monthly amounts which are used to purchase shares over a one year period.
At the end of the year, the participating employees are awarded one free share for every three shares purchased, providing they remain in employment for a further year.
During 2018, 157,148 shares were awarded in relation to the first year of the plan and it is anticipated that 225,464 shares in relation to the second year will be awarded in March 2019.
Amec Foster Wheeler also had an Employee Share Plan.
Awards under this scheme were converted to Wood Group awards following the acquisition on 6 October 2017.
At 31 December 2018, 551,274 2017: 1,099,016 options were outstanding under this scheme.
22 Share capital 2 2 Ordinary shares of 4 pence each 2017: 4 pence 2018 2017 7 7 Issued and fully paid shares $m shares $m At 1 January 677,692,296 40.5 381,025,384 23.9 Allocation of new shares to employee share trusts 3,800,000 0.2 2,150,000 0.1 Shares issued in relation to acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler - - 294,510,217 16.5 Shares issued to satisfy option exercises 47,073 - 6,695 - At 31 December 681,539,36940.7 677,692,296 40.5 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive any dividends declared by the Company and are entitled to vote at general meetings of the Company.
23 Share premium 2018 2017 $m $m At 1 January and 31 December 63.9 63.9 2 2 The shares allocated to the trust during the year were issued at 4 pence 2017: 4 pence.
7 7 130 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 24 Retained earnings 2018 2017 $m $m At 1 January 1,935.2 2,098.0 Loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent 8.9 32.4 Dividends paid note 7 231.0 125.6 Credit relating to share based charges note 21 18.7 10.2 Share based charges allocated to AFW purchase consideration - 2.1 Re-measurement gain loss on retirement benefit liabilities note 31 118.0 1.2 Movement in deferred tax relating to retirement benefit liabilities 20.5 0.7 Shares allocated to employee share trusts 0.2 0.1 Shares disposed of by employee share trusts 1.7 2.4 Gain on sale of shares sold by employee share trusts - 3.2 Tax relating to share option schemes 0.7 4.2 Deferred tax impact of rate change in equity 1.8 4.0 Tax on derivative financial instruments 0.6 - Exchange movements in respect of shares held by employee share trusts 6.5 9.9 Transactions with non-controlling interests note 27 14.5 4.0 At 31 December 1,806.7 1,935.2 Retained earnings are stated after deducting the investment in own shares held by employee share trusts.
No options have been granted over shares held by the employee share trusts 2017: nil.
2018 2017 Shares held by employee share trusts Shares $m Shares $m Balance 1 January 9,107,787 113.1 9,097,352 105.5 New shares allocated 3,800,000 0.2 2,150,000 0.1 Shares issued to satisfy option exercises 1,198,360 1.7 1,239,518 2.3 Shares issued to satisfy awards under Long Term Incentive Plan 345,067 - 478,611 - Shares issued to satisfy awards under Employee Share Plan 163,961 - 436 - Shares issued to satisfy awards under AFW schemes 3,005 - - - Sale of shares by JWG Trustees Ltd - - 421,000 0.1 Exchange movement - 6.5 - 9.9 Balance 31 December 11,197,394 105.1 9,107,787 113.1 Shares acquired by the employee share trusts are purchased in the open market using funds provided by John Wood Group PLC to meet obligations under the Employee Share Option Schemes, LTRP and LTP.
Shares are allocated to the employee share trusts in order to satisfy future option exercises at various prices.
The costs of funding and administering the trusts are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2018 was $72.2m 2017: $80.1m based on the closing share price of 5.06 2017: 6.50.
The employee share trusts have waived their rights to receipt of dividends on ordinary shares.
The amount of John Wood Group PLCs reserves that are considered distributable is disclosed in note 13 to the Company Financial Statements.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 131 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 25 Merger reserve 2018 2017 $m $m At 1 January 2,790.8 - Shares issued in relation to acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler - 2,790.8 At 31 December 2,790.8 2,790.8 On 6 October 2017, 294,510,217 new shares were issued in relation to the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler.
As the acquisition resulted in the Group securing 90% of Amec Foster Wheelers share capital, the acquisition qualifies for merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 and the premium arising on the issue of the shares is credited to a merger reserve rather than the share premium account.
The total value of the consideration for Amec Foster Wheeler was $2,809.4m with $16.5m being credited to share capital, $2,790.8m to the merger reserve and $2.1m to retained earnings.
26 Other reserves Capital Capital Currency reduction redemption translation Hedging reserve reserve reserve reserve Total $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2017 88.1 439.7 517.4 1.0 9.4 Cash flow hedges - - - 1.3 1.3 Exchange movement on retranslation of foreign operations - - 119.2 - 119.2 At 31 December 2017 88.1 439.7 398.2 0.3 129.9 Cash flow hedges - - - 4.7 4.7 Exchange movement on retranslation of foreign operations - - 236.5 - 236.5 At 31 December 2018 88.1 439.7 634.7 4.4 111.3 The capital reduction reserve was created subsequent to the Groups IPO in 2002 and is a distributable reserve.
The capital redemption reserve was created following a share issue that formed part of the return of cash to shareholders in 2011.
This is not a distributable reserve.
The currency translation reserve relates to the retranslation of foreign currency net assets on consolidation.
This was reset to zero on transition to IFRS at 1 January 2004.
The movement during the year relates to the retranslation of foreign operations, including goodwill and intangible assets recognised on acquisition.
The hedging reserve relates to the accounting for derivative financial instruments under IFRS 9.
Fair value gains and losses in respect of effective cash flow hedges are recognised in the hedging reserve.
27 Non-controlling interests 2018 2017 $m $m At 1 January 11.7 13.0 Exchange movements 1.2 - Share of profit for the year 1.3 2.4 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 5.9 4.5 Transactions with non-controlling interests 13.1 0.8 At 31 December 19.0 11.7 The Group acquired minority shareholdings during the year for $0.2m.
Transactions with non-controlling interests includes $14.3m representing the share of net liabilities acquired with $14.5m being recorded against retained earnings.
The remaining balance in transactions with non-controlling interests includes the acquisition of an additional shareholding in Amec Foster Wheeler Energy and Partners Engineering Company.
See note 29 for more details.
132 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 28 Cash generated from operations 2018 2017 Note $m $m Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations: Operating profit from continuing operations 165.3 36.4 Less share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 34.4 31.3 130.9 5.1 Adjustments for: Depreciation 10 51.6 41.8 Loss gain on disposal of property plant and equipment 4 1.4 1.3 Gain on disposal of investment in joint ventures 29 15.3 - Impairment of property plant and equipment 10 0.7 2.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 9 246.3 139.4 Share based charges 21 18.7 10.2 Decrease in provisions 19 182.8 75.8 Dividends from joint ventures 11 38.5 32.0 Exceptional items non-cash impact 1,5 107.0 99.8 Changes in working capital excluding effect of acquisition and divestment of subsidiaries Decrease increase in inventories 0.1 0.4 Decrease in receivables 88.9 287.3 Decrease increase in payables 173.6 302.9 Exchange movements 34.3 12.1 Cash generated from operations 625.3 250.0 Analysis of net debt At 1 January Cash Exchange Other At 31 December 2018 flow movements changes 2018 $m $m $m $m $m Short-term borrowings note 16 543.2 448.9 7.6 - 984.5 Finance leases note 34 50.0 14.7 0.3 - 35.0 Long-term borrowings note 16 2,336.1 407.8 0.4 10.6 1,917.3 2,929.3 26.4 8.3 10.6 2,936.8 Cash and cash equivalents note 14 1,225.5 164.8 37.6 - 1,352.7 Cash included in assets held for sale note 29 - 24.2 - - 24.2 Restricted cash note 13 26.5 14.8 - - 11.7 Bank deposits more than three months note 13 31.2 30.6 0.6 - - Net debt 1,646.1 117.2 29.9 10.6 1,548.2 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 29 Acquisitions and divestments Acquisitions In September 2018, the Group paid $2.1m to acquire an additional 25% shareholding in Amec Foster Wheeler Energy and Partners Engineering Company.
The results of this entity, which was previously accounted for as an equity joint venture, are fully consolidated from the date the additional shareholding was acquired.
The assets and liabilities acquired are set out below: $m Assets and liabilities acquired Property, plant and equipment 0.6 Trade and other receivables 15.1 Cash and cash equivalents 8.9 Trade and other payables 28.3 3.7 Fair value of investments disposed 1.1 Non-controlling interests 0.9 Net liabilities acquired 1.7 Consideration paid 2.1 Goodwill 3.8 The outflow of cash and cash equivalents in respect of acquisitions is analysed as follows: $m Cash consideration for acquisitions in year 2.1 Cash consideration relating to acquisitions in prior periods 36.8 Cash acquired 8.9 Net cash outflow 30.0 Contingent consideration payments of $36.8m were made during the year in respect of acquisitions made in prior periods.
Total deferred and contingent consideration outstanding at 31 December 2018 amounted to $26.6m 2017: $61.2m.
See note 18 for further details.
The Group acquired Amec Foster Wheeler on 6 October 2017 for a total consideration of $2,809.4m.
The acquisition accounting at 31 December 2017 reflected the provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired.
During 2018, the Group has reassessed the fair values as a result of new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date and recorded measurement period adjustments of $159.4m in provisions see note 19, $12.9m in trade and other receivables and $17.4m in trade and other payables.
A $40.7m deferred tax asset and a $16.9m reduction to income tax liabilities has also been recorded in relation to these adjustments and $132.1m has been added to goodwill.
134 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 29 Acquisitions and divestments continued The assets and liabilities acquired are set out in the table below: As per 2017 2018 accounts adjustments Final $m $m $m Property plant and equipment 83.4 - 83.4 Intangible assets recognised 1,343.6 43.2 1,300.4 Other intangible assets 35.1 - 35.1 Investment in joint ventures 55.5 - 55.5 Retirement benefit scheme surplus 147.3 - 147.3 Long term receivables 167.3 - 167.3 Inventories 6.7 - 6.7 Trade and other receivables 1,861.4 12.9 1,848.5 Assets held for sale 582.6 - 582.6 Bank deposits more than three months 30.1 - 30.1 Cash and cash equivalents 443.7 - 443.7 Borrowings 1,809.7 - 1,809.7 Finance leases 49.5 - 49.5 Trade and other payables 1,902.8 17.4 1,920.2 Liabilities held for sale 326.2 - 326.2 Current tax liabilities 149.1 16.9 132.2 Deferred tax 219.7 40.7 179.0 Provisions 822.4 159.4 981.8 Non-current liabilities 181.2 - 181.2 703.9 175.3 879.2 Non-controlling interests 1.2 - 1.2 705.1 175.3 880.4 Goodwill 3,514.5 175.3 3,689.8 Consideration 2,809.4 - 2,809.4 The proforma results of the Group, on the basis that Amec Foster Wheeler was acquired on 1 January 2017 are presented in the Financial Review in the Groups Annual Report.
The figures for the pre-acquisition period have been extracted from the management accounts of Amec Foster Wheeler, are unaudited and show Group revenue of $9,881.8m and EBITA of $597.7m for the year ended 31 December 2017.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 29 Acquisitions and divestments continued Divestments During 2018, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in the Voreas S. r. l wind farm for a cash consideration of $25.9m.
In December 2018, the Group signed a sale and purchase agreement to dispose of its 25% interest in Road Management Services A13 Holdings Limited for $11.5m, $2.8m of which was deferred.
At 31 December 2018, the disposal remained subject to minor conditions precedent with the deal being completed in February 2019.
These investments were part of the Groups Investment Services business unit.
The accounting for the disposals is shown below: $m Gross proceeds received 34.6 Deferred consideration 2.8 Total consideration 37.4 Net assets disposed Investment in joint ventures 20.9 Gross gain 16.5 Disposal costs 1.2 Net gain 15.3 The cash inflow in respect of these disposals is analysed below.
$m Gross proceeds received 34.6 Disposal costs paid 1.2 Cash inflow 33.4 Assets and liabilities held for sale Amounts categorised as held for sale at 31st December include the assets and liabilities of Amec Foster Wheeler Power Machinery Company Limited which is part of the Investment Services reportable segment and the assets and liabilities of the Groups minerals conveyer business which is part of STS.
The composition of the amounts included in the Group balance sheet is set out below.
$m Assets held for sale Property plant and equipment 8.8 Investment in joint ventures 1.1 Trade and other receivables 23.6 Income tax receivable 1.2 Cash and cash equivalents 24.2 58.9 Liabilities held for sale Trade and other payables 27.3 Net assets held for sale 31.6 136 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 30 Employees and directors 2018 2017 Employee benefits expense $m $m Wages and salaries 4,032.6 2,458.0 Social security costs 358.5 197.1 Pension costs defined benefit schemes note 31 1.5 0.2 Pension costs defined contribution schemes note 31 146.9 76.1 Share based charges note 21 18.7 10.2 4,558.2 2,741.6 2018 2017 Average monthly number of employees including executive directors No.
By geographical area: UK 10,538 6,972 US 18,682 11,350 Rest of the World 20,824 10,709 50,044 29,031 The average number of employees excludes contractors and employees of joint venture companies.
The 2017 comparatives include employees of Amec Foster Wheeler for the last three months of the year.
2018 2017 Key management compensation $m $m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 8.5 7.5 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 2.1 1.3 Social security costs 1.2 1.0 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share based charges 2.9 1.7 14.9 11.7 Key management compensation represents the charge to the income statement in respect of the remuneration of the Group board and Group Executive Leadership Team ELT members.
At 31 December 2018, key management held 0.1% of the voting rights of the company.
2018 2017 Directors $m $m Aggregate emoluments 3.5 2.9 Aggregate amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 0.8 0.6 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options 0.4 0.7 Share based charges 1.1 0.6 5.8 4.8 At 31 December 2018, two directors 2017: two had retirement benefits accruing under a defined contribution pension plan and no directors 2017: none had benefits accruing under a defined benefit pension scheme.
Further details of directors emoluments are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 71.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 31 Retirement benefit schemes The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes.
The assets of the defined benefits schemes are held separately from those of the Group, being invested with independent investment companies in trustee administered funds.
The trustees of the pension schemes are required by law to act in the best interests of the scheme participants and are responsible for setting certain policies such as investment, contribution and indexation policies for the schemes.
These schemes are largely closed to future accrual.
At 31 December 2017, the three largest schemes were the Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan AFW Pension Plan and the John Wood Group PLC Retirement Benefit Scheme JWG RBS in the UK and the Foster Wheeler Inc Pension Plan in the US.
During 2018, the Foster Wheeler Inc Pension Plan now known as the FW Inc SERP was restructured with an element of the defined benefit obligation being transferred into a new scheme, the Foster Wheeler Inc Pension Plan for Certain Employees FW Inc PPCE.
The valuations used are based on the valuation of Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan as at 31 March 2017, the valuation of the John Wood Group PLC Retirement Benefit Scheme as at 5 April 2016 and the valuation of the Foster Wheeler Inc SERP PPCE as at 1 January 2017.
The scheme valuations have been updated by the schemes actuaries for the requirement to assess the present value of the liabilities of the schemes as at 31 December 2018.
The assets of the schemes are stated at their aggregate market value as at 31 December 2018.
Group management have considered the requirements of IFRIC 14, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction and consider it is appropriate to recognise the IAS 19 surplus in both the Amec Foster Wheeler Pension Plan and the John Wood Group PLC Retirement Benefit Scheme as the rules governing these schemes provide an unconditional right to a refund assuming the gradual settlement of the schemes liabilities over time until all members have left the schemes.
Scheme membership at the balance sheet date was as follows: 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 JWG AFW FW FW JWG AFW FW Inc PLC Pension Inc Inc PLC Pension Pension RBS Plan SERP PPCE RBS Plan Plan Deferred members 640 8,812 639 740 689 9,766 1,570 Pensioner members 441 9,689 2,453 777 419 9,546 3,234 The principal assumptions made by the actuaries at the balance sheet date were: 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 JWG AFW FW FW JWG AFW FW Inc PLC Pension Inc Inc PLC Pension Pension RBS Plan SERP PPCE RBS Plan Plan % % % % % % % Discount rate 2.9 2.9 4.1 4.1 2.5 2.5 3.4 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and 3.0 2.8 N A N A 3.2 2.7 N A deferred pensions Rate of retail price index inflation 3.1 3.1 N A N A 3.3 3.1 N A Rate of consumer price index inflation 2.1 N A N A N A 2.3 N A N A The mortality assumptions used to determine pension liabilities in the main schemes at 31 December 2018 were as follows: Scheme Mortality assumption JWG PLC RBS S2NA mortality tables with CMI 2017 projections and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% pa AFW Pension Plan Scheme specific table with CMI 2017 projections and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% pa FW Inc SERP and FW Inc PPCE RP-2014 Employee and Annuitant tables for males and females with generational projection using scale MMP-2018 with no collar adjustments The mortality tables use data appropriate to each of the Groups schemes adjusted to allow for expected future improvements in mortality using the latest projections.
138 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 31 Retirement benefit schemes continued For the schemes referred to above the assumed life expectancies are shown in the following table: 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 JWG AFW FW FW JWG AFW FW Inc PLC Pension Inc Inc PLC Pension Pension RBS Plan SERP PPCE RBS Plan Plan Life expectancy at age 65 of male aged 45 23.6 23.9 22.2 21.8 24.3 24.4 21.9 Life expectancy at age 65 of male aged 65 22.2 22.6 20.6 20.5 22.5 22.6 20.5 Life expectancy at age 65 of female aged 45 25.7 25.6 24.1 23.6 26.6 26.3 23.7 Life expectancy at age 65 of female aged 65 24.2 24.1 22.5 22.4 24.7 24.3 22.4 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Current service cost 1.5 0.2 Past service cost 25.2 - Total included within operating profit 26.7 0.2 Interest cost 109.4 36.2 Interest income on scheme assets 109.9 33.6 Total included within finance income expense 0.5 2.6 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Present value of funded obligations 3,808.1 4,354.9 Fair value of scheme assets 4,050.8 4,522.6 Net surplus 242.7 167.7 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liability are as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Present value of funded obligations at 1 January 4,354.9 246.3 Acquired - 3,882.3 Current service cost 1.5 0.2 Past service cost 25.2 - Interest cost 109.4 36.2 Contributions 2.1 - Re-measurements: - actuarial gains losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 234.0 90.3 - actuarial gains losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 21.6 15.3 - actuarial losses arising from changes in experience 12.6 15.4 Benefits paid 227.5 83.1 Settlement of unfunded liability - 8.5 Exchange movements 214.5 160.5 Present value of funded obligations at 31 December 3,808.1 4,354.9 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 31 Retirement benefit schemes continued Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 4,522.6 239.3 Acquired - 4,029.6 Interest income on scheme assets 109.9 33.6 Contributions 14.5 14.9 Benefits paid 226.3 80.9 Re-measurement loss gain on scheme assets 125.0 115.8 Actuarial movement arising from changes in financial assumptions - 4.0 Expenses paid 6.2 2.4 Exchange movements 238.7 168.7 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 4,050.8 4,522.6 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet surplus deficit : 2018 2017 $m $m Surplus deficit at 1 January 167.7 7.0 Acquired - 147.3 Current service cost 1.5 0.2 Past service cost 25.2 - Finance income cost 0.5 2.6 Contributions 12.4 14.9 Re-measurement gains losses recognised in the year 118.0 1.2 Benefits paid 1.2 2.2 Expenses paid 6.2 2.4 Settlement of unfunded liability - 8.5 Exchange movements 24.2 8.2 Surplus at 31 December 242.7 167.7 The past service cost comprises $31.9m relating to the impact of GMP equalisation on the JWG PLC Retirement Benefit Scheme and the AFW Pension Plan less a $6.7m past service credit in respect of the Foster Wheeler Inc Pension Plan.
The Group seeks to fund its pension plans to ensure that all benefits can be paid as and when they fall due.
It has agreed schedules of contributions with the UK plans trustees and the amounts payable are dependent on the funding level of the respective plans.
The US plans are funded to ensure that statutory obligations are met and contributions are generally payable to at least minimum funding requirements.
Scheme risks The retirement benefit schemes are exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are: Volatility The defined benefit obligation is measured with reference to corporate bond yields and if scheme assets underperform relative to this yield, this will create a deficit, all other things being equal.
The scheme investments are well diversified such that the failure of a single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the defined benefit obligation.
This would however be offset to some extent by a corresponding increase in the value of the schemes bond asset holdings.
Inflation risk The majority of benefits in deferment and in payment are linked to price inflation so higher actual inflation and higher assumed inflation will increase the defined benefit obligation.
Life expectancy The defined benefit obligation is generally made up of benefits payable for life and so increases to members life expectancies will increase the defined benefit obligation, all other things being equal.
The JWG PLC RBS holds a small allocation of liability driven investments, the objective of which is to make use of derivatives to help the assets match the movement in the value of the liabilities caused by changes in the outlook for long-term interest rates and inflation, providing some protection against these risks.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 31 Retirement benefit schemes continued Sensitivity of the retirement benefit obligation The impact of changes to the key assumptions on the retirement benefit obligation is shown below.
The sensitivity is based on a change in an assumption whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method has been applied as when calculating the pension obligation recognised in the Group balance sheet.
JWG AFW PLC Pension FW Inc FW Inc RBS Plan SERP PPCE Approximate impact on scheme liabilities $m $m $m $m Discount rate Plus 0.1% 3.8 53.7 0.9 1.8 Minus 0.1% 4.0 55.0 0.9 1.9 Inflation Plus 0.1% 3.0 32.2 N A N A Minus 0.1% 2.9 31.9 N A N A Life expectancy Plus 1 year 5.4 112.1 3.7 7.5 Minus 1 year 5.5 111.2 3.7 7.5 The sensitivity analysis covering the impact of increases in pensions is included in the inflation sensitivity in the above table.
The contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2019 amount to $17.8m.
Defined contribution plans Pension costs for defined contribution plans were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Defined contribution plans 146.9 76.1 There were no material contributions outstanding at 31 December 2018 in respect of defined contribution plans.
The Group operates a SERP pension arrangement in the US for certain employees.
During the year, the Group made contributions of $0.4m 2017: $0.6m to the arrangement.
Contributions are invested in a portfolio of US funds and the fair value of the funds at the balance sheet date are recognised by the Group in other investments.
Investments held by the Group at 31 December amounted to $76.4m 2017: $83.8m and will be used to pay benefits when employees retire.
The corresponding liability is recorded in other non-current liabilities.
32 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments 2018 2017 $m $m Amounts payable under non-cancellable operating leases due: Within one year 160.1 176.4 Later than one year and less than five years 420.3 461.1 After five years 172.3 225.8 752.7 863.3 The Group leases various offices, facilities, vehicle and plant & equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The new accounting standard for leases, IFRS 16 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The impact of IFRS 16 on the Group financial statements is explained in Accounting policies under the heading Disclosure of impact of new and future accounting standards.
142 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 33 Contingent liabilities Cross guarantees At the balance sheet date, the Group had cross guarantees without limit extended to its principal bankers in respect of sums advanced to subsidiaries.
Legal Claims From time to time, the Group is notified of claims in respect of work carried out.
For a number of these claims the potential exposure is material.
Where management believes we are in a strong position to defend these claims no provision is made.
At any point in time there are a number of claims where it is too early to assess the merit of the claim, and hence it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential financial impact.
Employment claims The Group is aware of challenges to historic employment practices which may have an impact on the Group, including the application of National Insurance Contributions to workers in the UK Continental Shelf.
In addition, previous court cases have challenged the UKs historic interpretation of EU legislation relating to holiday pay and this may have an impact on all companies who have employees in the UK, including Wood Group.
At this point, we do not believe that it is possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential liability, if any, that may arise from these challenges and therefore no provision has been made.
Indemnities and retained obligations The Group has agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and or assets that were previously owned by the Group and were sold to them.
Such indemnifications relate primarily to breach of covenants, breach of representations and warranties, as well as potential exposure for retained liabilities, environmental matters and third party claims for activities conducted by the Group prior to the sale of such businesses and or assets.
We have established provisions for those indemnities in respect of which we consider it probable that there will be a successful claim.
We do not expect indemnities or retained obligations for which a provision has not been established to have a material impact on the Groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Investigations The Group has received voluntary requests for information from, and continues to cooperate with, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and the US Department of Justice DOJ in connection with their ongoing investigations into Amec Foster Wheeler in relation to Unaoil and in relation to historical use of agents and certain other business counterparties by Amec Foster Wheeler and its legacy companies in various jurisdictions.
Amec Foster Wheeler made a disclosure to the UK Serious Fraud Office SFO about these matters and, in April 2017, in connection with the SFOs investigation into Unaoil, the SFO required Amec Foster Wheeler to produce information relating to any relationship of Amec Foster Wheeler with Unaoil or certain other third parties.
In July 2017, the SFO opened an investigation into Amec Foster Wheeler, predecessor companies and associated persons.
The investigation focuses on the past use of third parties and possible bribery and corruption and related offences and relates to various jurisdictions.
The Group is co-operating with and assisting the SFO in relation to this investigation.
Notifications of certain matters within the above investigations have also been made to the relevant authorities in Brazil namely, the Federal Prosecution Service and the Office of the Comptroller General.
Independently, the Group has conducted an internal investigation into the historical engagement of Unaoil by legacy Wood Group companies, reviewing information available to the Group in this context.
This internal investigation confirmed that a legacy Wood Group joint venture engaged Unaoil and that the joint venture made payments to Unaoil under agency agreements.
In September 2017, the Group informed the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service COPFS, the relevant authority in Scotland, of the findings of the internal investigation.
The Group understands that COPFS and the SFO commenced a process to determine which authority would be responsible for the matter going forward, in line with the memorandum of understanding between them.
This process has now completed, resulting in a decision that COPFS has jurisdiction.
The Group intends to engage in a cooperative manner with COPFS regarding this matter.
Depending on the outcome of the above matters, the Group could face potential civil and criminal consequences, as well as other adverse consequences for its operations and business including financial penalties and restrictions from participating in public contracts.
At this time, however, it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that may arise in relation to any of those matters and therefore no provision has been made for them in the financial statements.
Tax planning The Group undertakes tax planning which is compliant with current legislation and accepted practice.
Recent changes to the tax environment, including the OECDs project around Base Erosion and Profit Shifting have brought into question tax planning previously undertaken by multinational entities.
There have been several recent high profile tax cases against tax authorities and large groups.
The European Commission continues formal investigations to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in certain European countries comply with European Union rules and has issued judgements in some cases which are being contested by the groups and the countries affected.
The Group is monitoring the outcome of these cases in order to understand whether there is any risk to the Group.
Specifically, the EC has challenged the UK Controlled Foreign Companies CFC rules in relation to an exemption for certain financing income.
Based on the Groups current assessment of such issues including increased uncertainties around the UKs exit from the European Union, it is too early to speculate on the likelihood of liabilities arising, and as a result, it is not currently considered probable that there will be an outflow in respect of these issues and no provision has been made in the financial statements.
The maximum potential exposure to the Group of the EC CFC challenge, including interest, is around $66m.
Mount Polley During 2018, the contingent liability that existed at 31 December 2017 in relation to pollution at the Mount Polley dam in British Columbia in Canada was settled by the Groups insurers.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements 34 Capital and other financial commitments 2018 2017 $m $m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements 8.3 18.5 The capital expenditure above relates to property plant and equipment.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of property and deferred payment arrangements which are similar to finance leases for software.
These leases have terms of renewal, but no purchase options or escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of future minimum lease payments are as follows: 2018 2017 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments $m $m $m $m Payments due: Within one year 11.7 9.8 20.9 18.6 Later than one year and less than five years 27.8 25.2 34.5 31.4 Total minimum lease payments 39.5 35.0 55.4 50.0 Less amounts representing finance charges 4.5 - 5.4 - Present value of minimum lease payments 35.0 35.0 50.0 50.0 35 Related party transactions The following transactions were carried out with the Groups joint ventures.
These transactions comprise sales and purchases of goods and services and funding provided in the ordinary course of business.
The receivables include loans to joint venture companies.
2018 2017 $m $m Sale of goods and services to joint ventures 60.5 9.5 Purchase of goods and services from joint ventures 13.5 8.1 Receivables from joint ventures 97.2 131.2 Payables to joint ventures 3.1 14.3 In addition, the Group made $15.2m 2017: $47.7m of sales to a joint venture which acts only as a transactional entity between the Group and the Groups end customer at nil gain or loss and does not trade independently.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 30.
The Group currently pays an annual fee of 15,000 2017: 15,000 to Dunelm Energy, a company in which Ian Marchant, the Group Chairman, has an interest, for secretarial and administration services and the provision of office space.
36 Post balance sheet events In December 2018, the Group signed a sale and purchase agreement for the disposal of its 52% interest in the Amec Foster Wheeler Power Machinery Company Limited, a fabrication and manufacturing facility in China.
This disposal was completed in March 2019.
In January 2019, the Group sold its 41.65% share in the Centro Energia Teverola S. r. l and Centro Energia Ferrara S. r. l combined cycle gas power plants in Italy.
The businesses referred to in this note are part of the Investment Services business unit.
144 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 37 Subsidiaries and joint ventures The Groups subsidiary and joint venture undertakings at 31 December 2018 are listed below.
All subsidiaries are fully consolidated in the financial statements.
Ownership interests noted in the table reflect holdings of ordinary shares.
Subsidiaries Company name Registered Address Ownership Interest % Algeria SARL Wood Group Algeria Cite Zone Industrielle BP 504, Hassi Messaoud, Algeria 100 Wood Group Somias SPA PO Box 67, Elmalaha Road Route des Salines, Elbouni, Annaba, Algeria 55 Angola Production Services Network Angola Limited RuaKima Kienda, Edificio SGEP, 2nd Floor, Apartment 16, Boavista District, Ingombota, Luanda, 49 Angola Wood Group Kianda Limitada No 201, Rua Engenheiro Armindo fide Andrade, Bairro Miramar, Simbizanga, Luanda, Angola 41 Argentina AGRA Argentina S. A.
25 fide Mayo 596, piso 8, C1002ABL, Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 Foster Wheeler E&C Argentina S. A. Paraguay 1866, Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 ISI Mustang Argentina S. A. Pedro Molina 714, Provincia fide Mendoza, Ciudad fide Mendoza, Argentina 100 Australia Altablue Australia Pty Ltd Wood Group House, Level 1, 432 Murray Street, Perth, WA 6000, Australia 100 AMEC Australia Finance Company Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Australia Holding Company Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 Pty Ltd Amec Foster Wheeler Australia Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 Amec Foster Wheeler BG Holdings Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Holdings Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Zektin Architecture Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 AMEC Zektin Group Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 Aus-Ops Pty Ltd Wood Group House, Level 1, 432 Murray Street, Perth, WA 6000, Australia 100 Foster Wheeler WA Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 GRD Asia Holdings Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 GRD Investments Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 GRD New Zealand Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 GRD Pty Limited Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 GRD Renewables Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 Innofield Services Pty Ltd Wood Group House, 432 Murray Street, Perth, WA 6000, Australia 100 Minproc Technology Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 Mustang Engineering Pty.
Ltd. Wood Group House, Level 6, 432 Murray Street, Perth, WA 6000, Australia 100 ODL Pty Ltd Wood Group House, Level 6, 432 Murray Street, Perth, WA 6000, Australia 100 Qedi Completions & Commissioning Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 Rider Hunt International WA Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 S2V Consulting Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 SVT Holdings Pty Ltd Wood Group House, Level 6, 432 Murray Street, Perth, WA 6000, Australia 100 Terra Nova Technologies Australia Pty Ltd Level 7, 197 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA, 6000, Australia 100 WGPSN Queensland Pty Ltd Level 20, 127 Creek Street, Brisbane, Queensland, 4000, Australia 100 Wood Group Australia PTY Ltd Wood Group House, Level 6, 432 Murray Street, Perth, WA 6000, Australia 100 Wood Group Kenny Australia Pty Ltd Wood Group House, Level 6, 432 Murray Street, Perth, WA 6000, Australia 100 Wood Group PSN Australia Pty Ltd Level 3, 171 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC, 3000, Australia 100 Azerbaijan AMEC Limited Liability Company 37 Khojali Street, Baku, AZ1025, Azerbaijan 100 Wood Group PSN Azerbaijan LLC Khojali Avenue, Building 37, Khatal District, Baku, AZ1025, Azerbaijan 100 Bahamas Montreal Engineering Overseas Limited c o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 7000, Oakville, Ontario, Canada 100 Bermuda AMEC Bermuda Limited Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, PO Box HM 1179, Hamilton, HM EX, Bermuda 100 Atlantic Services Limited Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, PO Box HM 1179, Hamilton, HM EX, Bermuda 100 Foster Wheeler Ltd. Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM-11, Bermuda 100 FW Management Operations, Ltd. Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, P. O.
Box HM 1022, Hamilton HM CX, Bermuda 100 Production Services Network International Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM12, Bermuda 100 Limited Bolivia ISI Mustang Bolivia S. R. L. Avenida San Martin Calle 6, Este, Equipetrol No.
5, Barrio, Santa Cruz, Bolivia 100 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements Brazil AMEC do Brasil Participaes Ltda.
Rua Quitanda 50, 15th floor, Centro, Rio fide Janeiro, CEP 20011-030, Brazil 100 Amec Foster Wheeler America Latina, Ltda.
Centro Empresarial Ribeirao Office Tower, Av.
Braz Olaia Acosta, 727 - 18 andar - Sl.
California, Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil Amec Foster Wheeler Brasil S. A. R. Nilo Peanha, n. 50, Sala 2912, Centro, Rio fide Janeiro, 20020-100, Brazil 100 AMEC Petroleo e Gas Ltda.
Rua Quitanda 50, 15th floor, Centro, Rio fide Janeiro, CEP 20011-030, Brazil 100 AMEC Projetos e Consultoria Ltda Rua Professor Moraes No.
476, Loja 5, Sobreloja, Bairro Funcionarios, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, 100 30150-370, Brazil FW Industrial Power Brazil Ltda Alameda Santos, 1293, Room 63, Cerqueira Csar, Sao Paulo, 01419-002, Brazil 100 Santos Barbosa Tecnica Estrada Sao Jose do Mutum, 301 - Imboassica, Cidade fide Macae, Rio fide Janeiro, CEP 27973-030, 100 Comercio e Servicos Ltda.
Brazil Wood Group Engineering and Rua Ministro Salgado Filho, 119, Cavaleiros, Cidade fide Macae, CEP 27920-210, Estado do Rio fide 100 Production Facilities Brasil Ltda.
Janeiro Wood Group Kenny do Brasil Rua Sete fide Setembro, 54 - 4 andares, Centro, Rio fide Janeiro - RJ, CEP 20050-009, Brazil 100 Servicos fide Engenharia Ltda.
British Virgin Islands MDM Engineering Group Limited Commerce House, Wickhams Cay 1, P. O.
Box 3140, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 100 Wood Group Engineering Colombia Ltd. Geneva Place, 2nd Floor, 333 Waterfront Drive, PO Box 3339, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin 100 Islands Wood Group PDE Limited Geneva Place, 2nd Floor, 333 Waterfront Drive, PO Box 3339, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin 100 Islands Brunei Darussalam Amec Foster Wheeler B SDN BHD Unit No.
s 406A-410A, Wisma Jaya, Jalan Pemancha, Bandar Seri Begawan BS8811, Brunei 99 Darussalam Bulgaria AMEC Minproc Bulgaria EOOD 7th Floor, 9-11 Maria Louisa Blvd, Vazrazhdane District, Sofia 1301, Bulgaria 100 Cameroon Amec Foster Wheeler Cameroon SARL Cap Limboh, Limbe, BP1280, Cameroon 100 Canada AFW Canada Investments Limited Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C5 100 AFW Canadian Holdco Inc. Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C5 100 AMEC BDR Limited 900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S. W. Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada 100 AMEC Canada Holdings Inc. Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C5 100 AMEC Earth & Environmental Limited 801, 900, 6th Avenue S. W. Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Canada Ltd. 900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S. W. Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Inc. 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7, Canada 100 AMEC South America Limited 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7, Canada 100 MASA Ventures Limited 900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S. W. Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada 100 QEDI Commissioning and Completions Canada Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver, BC, V6E 0C5 100 Limited Rider Hunt International Alberta Inc. 900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S. W. Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada 100 Wood Architectural Services Ltd. 133 Crosbie Road, St. Johns, NL, A1B 1H3, Canada 0 Wood Canada Limited 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7, Canada 100 Wood Geomatics Limited 900 AMEC Place, 801-6th Avenue S. W. Calgary, AB, T2P 3W3, Canada 100 Wood Group Asset Integrity Solutions, Inc. Borden Ladner Gervais LLP, Centennial Place, East Tower, 1900, 520 - 3rd Ave. S. W. Calgary, AB, 100 T2P 0R3, Canada Wood Group Canada, Inc Borden Ladner Gervais LLP, Centennial Place, East Tower, 1900, 520 - 3rd Ave. S. W. Calgary, AB, 100 T2P 0R3, Canada Wood Group E&PF Canada Limited Borden Ladner GVervais LLP, Centennial Place, East Tower, 1900, 520 - 3rd Ave. S. W. Calgary, AB, 100 T2P 0R3, Canada Wood Group Kenny Canada Ltd. Borden Ladner Gervais LLP, Centennial Place, East Tower, 1900, 520 - 3rd Ave. S. W. Calgary, AB, 100 T2P 0R3, Canada Wood Group Mustang Canada Construction Borden Ladner Gervais LLP, Centennial Place, East Tower, 1900, 520 - 3rd Ave. S. W. Calgary, 100 Management Inc. Alberta, T2P 0R3 Cayman Islands FW Chile Holdings Ltd. Codan Trust Company Cayman Limited, Cricket Square, Hutchins Drive, PO Box 2681, George 100 Town, KY1-1111 Wood Group O&M International, Ltd. Sterling Trust Cayman Limited, Whitehall House, 238 North Church Street, George Town, KY1- 100 1102, Cayman Islands Wood Group OTS International Inc. Sterling Trust Cayman Limited, Whitehall House, 238 North Church Street, George Town, KY1- 100 1102, Cayman Islands Chile AMEC CADE Ingeniera y Desarrollo Av.
Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile 100 fide Proyectos Limitada AMEC Chile Ingeniera y Construccin Limitada Av.
Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Iberia, Agencia en Chile Evaristo Lillo 112, 3rd Floor, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile 100 Amec Foster Wheeler International Ingenieria y Av.
Apoquindo 3846, piso 15, Las Condes, Santiago, 7550123, Chile 100 Construccin Limitada Amec Foster Wheeler Talcahuano, Operaciones y Camino A Ramuntcho 3230, Sector 4 Esquinas, Talcahuano, Chile 100 Mantenciones Limitada ISI Mustang Chile SpA Calle Providencia 337, off.
7, Comuna fide Providencia, Santiago, Chile 100 Terra Nova Technologies Chile Limitada Av.
Apoquindo 3846, piso 15, Las Condes, Santiago, 7550123, Chile 100 146 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements China AG Offshore Engineering China Ltd Room A25, 3rd Floor, No 473 West Fute 1st Road, Shanghai, China 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering & Construction Room 401, Floor 4, No, 120 Qixia Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai, China 100 Design Shanghai Co. Ltd. Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering & Consulting Room 204, Building 1, No.
1287, Shangcheng Road, Pudong New District, Shanghai 100 Shanghai Co. Ltd Amec Foster Wheeler Power Machinery Company No.
1, Fuhui Road, Xinhui District, Jiangmen City, Guangdong Province, China 52 Limited Feng Neng Sgurr Beijing Renewable Energy 1217, No 5 Dongzhimen South Avenue, Dongcheng, China 100 Technology Co. Ltd Grenland Group China Limited Room D2, 6th Floor, No 2446, Jin Qiao Road, Shanghai, Pudong, China 100 Colombia Amec Foster Wheeler Colombia SAS Calle 110 No.
9-25, Offices 515 and 516, Bogot, Colombia 100 Procesos y Disenos Energeticos S. A. S. Carrera 11 A No.
96-51 5th floor, Bogota D. C. Colombia 100 Curaao Harwat International Finance Corporation N. V. Curado Trust, Penstraat 35, P. O.
Box 4888, Curacao 100 Cyprus AMEC Overseas Cyprus Limited 1, Lampousas Street, 1095 Nicosia, Cyprus 100 J P Kenny Overseas Limited Themistokli Dervi, 5, Elenion Building, 2nd Floor, P. C. 1005, Nicosia, Cyprus 100 WG International Services Limited Elenion Building, 2nd Floor, 5 Themistocles Street, CY-1066 Nicosia, CY-1310 Nicosia, PO Box 25549, 100 Cyprus WGPS International Limited Elenion Building, 2nd Floor, 5 Themistocles Street, CY-1066 Nicosia, CY-1310 Nicosia, PO Box 25549, 100 Cyprus Wood Group Angola Limited Elenion Building, 2nd Floor, 5 Themistocles Street, CY-1066 Nicosia, CY-1310 Nicosia, PO Box 25549, 100 Cyprus Wood Group Engineering Services North Africa Elenion Building, 2nd Floor, 5 Themistocles Street, CY-1066 Nicosia, CY-1310 Nicosia, PO Box 25549, 100 Limited Cyprus Wood Group Equatorial Guinea Limited Elenion Building, 2nd Floor, 5 Themistocles Street, CY-1066 Nicosia, CY-1310 Nicosia, PO Box 25549, 100 Cyprus Czech Republic Amec Foster Wheeler s. r. o. Krenova 58, Brno, 60200, Czech Republic 100 Democratic Republic of Congo MDM Engineering SPRL 32 Avenue 3Z, Commune fide Kasuku, Ville fide Kindu, Democratic Republic of Congo 100 Egypt Foster Wheeler Petroleum Services S. A. E. Al-Amerya General Free Zone, Alexandria, Egypt 100 Equatorial Guinea Baker Energy International Equatorial Guinea Bioko, Island Region, Malabo 65 S. A. Hexagon Sociedad Anonima con Consejo fide c o Solege, Calle Kenia S N, Malabo, Equatorial Guinea 65 Administracion France Amec Foster Wheeler France S. A.
14, Place fide la Coupole, Charenton-le-Pont, France, 94220 100 Wood Group Engineering Services France SAS 6Pl fide la Madeleine, 75008, Paris, France 100 Wood Group France SAS 60 rue fide La Chaussee dAntin, 75009, Paris, France 100 Wood Nuclear France SAS Immeuble Horizon Sainte Victoire, Btiment A, 970 rue Ren Descartes, 13857 Aix-en-Provence 100 cedex 3, France Gabon Production Services Network Gabon SARL Place of Independence, En face fide la BVMAC, Libreville, BP 922, Gabon 100 Germany Amec Foster Wheeler E & I GmbH Weserstrasse 4, Frankfurt am Main, 60329, Germany 100 Bauunternehmung Kittelberger GmbH i. L. Liebigstr.
1-3, Kaiserslautern, 67661, Germany 100 KIG Immobilien  mbH Hammstrasse 6, 04129 Leipzig, Germany 100 KIG  mbH & Co. KG Hammstrasse 6, 04129 Leipzig, Germany 100 Ghana Amec Foster Wheeler Operations Ghana Limited 3rd Floor Teachers Hall Complex, Education Loop, Off Barnes Road, PO Box 1632, Accra, Ghana 100 MDM Projects - Ghana Limited 2nd Floor Cedar House, 13 Samora Machel Road, Asylum Down, Accram, Ghana 100 Wood & BBS Ghana Limited No 4 Momotsa Avenue, Behind All Saints Anglican Church, Adabraka, Accra, Ghana 80 Wood Group Ghana Limited 20 Jones Nelson Road, Adabraka, Accra, Ghana 49 Gibraltar Foster Wheeler Gibraltar Holdings Limited Suite 1, Burns House, 19 Town Range, Gibraltar 100 Greece Amec Foster Wheeler Hellas Engineering and 21 Elvetias Street, First Floor, Agia Paraskevi, 153 42, Greece 100 Construction Societe Anonyme Guatemala AMEC Guatemala Engineering and Consulting, Ciudad Guatemala, Guatemala 100 Sociedad Anonima Guernsey AMEC Operations Limited 22 Havilland Street, St Peter Port, GY1 2QB, Guernsey 100 Garlan Insurance Limited PO Box 33, Maison Trinity, Trinity Square, St Peter Port, GY1 4AT, Guernsey 100 Wood Group Offshore Services Limited PO Box 119 Martello Court, Admiral Park, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 3HB, Guernsey 100 Wood USA Holdings Limited 22 Havilland Street, St Peter Port, GY1 2QB, Guernsey 100 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements Hong Kong AMEC Asia Pacific Limited 5008, 50th Floor, Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 100 AMEC Engineering Limited 5008, 50th Floor, Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong 100 SgurrEnergy Hong Kong Limited 26 F Beautiful Group Tower, 77 Connaught Road Central, Hong Kong 100 Hungary FW Hungary Licensing Limited Liability Company Krisztina korut 2-4.
17, Budapest, Hungary, 1122 100 India Amec Foster Wheeler India Private Limited 6th Floor, Zenith Building, Ascendas IT Park, CSIR Road, Taramani, Chennai 600 113, India 100 Ingenious Process Solutions Private Limited 307, Atlanta Estate, 3rd Floor, Hanuman Tekdil Road Vitbhatti, Off.
W. E. Highway, Goregaon East 100 Mumbai MH 400063 Mustang Engineering India Private Limited R9, F -3 RD W: B, P-214, BWing, Laxmikant Apartment, Sitaram Keer Marg, Mahim, Mumbai, 100 400016, India Wood Group Kenny India Private Limited 15th Floor Tower-B, Building No.
5, DLF Cyber City, HR, Phase III Gurgaon Gurgaon, 122002, India 100 Wood Group PSN India Private Limited Floor 15, Building No 5, Tower B, Cyber Terraces, DLF Cyber City, Phase III, Haryana, Gurgaon - 100 122002, India Indonesia PT AGRA Monenco c o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7, Canada 100 PT Amec Foster Wheeler Indonesia Perkantoran Pulo mas Blok VII No.
2, Jl Perintis Kemerdekaan, Pulo Gadung, Jakarta, Timur, 85 Indonesia PT Australian Skills Training Green Town Warehouse No.
2, , Indonesia 95 PT Foster Wheeler O&G Indonesia Perkantoran Pulo mas Blok VII No.
Perintis Kemerdekaan, Pulo Gadung, Jakarta Timur 13260, 90 Indonesia PT Harding Lawson Indonesia c o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7, Canada 100 PT Simons International Indonesia c o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 7000, Oakville, Ontario, Canada 100 PT Wood Group Indonesia Office 88 Tower, 20th - H Floor, Jl.
Casablanca Kav 88, South Jakarta, Jakarta, 12870, Indonesia 90 Iran Wood Group Iran - Qeshm Company pjs No 2564, Hafez Street, Toola Industrial Park, Qeshm Island, Annaba, Iran 97 Foster Wheeler Adibi Engineering 9th Floor Aluminumm Building, Avenue Shah, Tehran 45 Iraq Ghabet El Iraq for General Contracting and Suite 24, Building 106, St 19, Sec 213, Al-Kindi St, Al-Haritheeya Qts, Baghdad, Iraq 100 Engineering Services, Engineering Consultancy LLC Touchstone General Contracting, Engineering Flat no.
23A, 3rd Floor, near Kahramana Square Anbar Building, District no.
903, Hay Al Karada, 100 Consultancy and Project Management LLC Baghdad, Iraq Wood Group, LLC Shoresh, Hadid and Khashab St. Kurdistan, Erbil, Iraq 100 Ireland JWG Ireland CAD Unlimited Company Second Floor, Blocks 4 and 5, Galway Technology Park, Parkmore, Galway, Ireland 100 JWG Ireland NOK Unlimited Company Second Floor, Blocks 4 and 5, Galway Technology Park, Parkmore, Galway, Ireland 100 JWG Ireland USD 2 Unlimited Company Second Floor, Blocks 4 and 5, Galway Technology Park, Parkmore, Galway, Ireland 100 JWG Ireland USD 3 Unlimited Company Second Floor, Blocks 4 and 5, Galway Technology Park, Parkmore, Galway, Ireland 100 JWG Ireland USD Unlimited Company Second Floor, Blocks 4 and 5, Galway Technology Park, Parkmore, Galway, Ireland 100 Wood Group Kenny Ireland Limited c o Matheson Ormsby Prentice, 70 Sir John Rogersons Quay, Dublin 2, Ireland 100 Italy Amec Foster Wheeler Italiana S. r. l. Via S. Caboto 15, Corsico, 20094, Italy 100 FW TURNA S. r. l. Via S. Caboto 15, Corsico Milano, 20094, Italy 100 Jamaica Monenco Jamaica Limited c o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7, Canada 100 Japan Amec Foster Wheeler Asia K. K. Shiba International Law Offices, 1-3-4-5F Atago, Minatoku, Tokyo, 105-0002, Japan 100 Jersey AltaBlue Limited 28 Esplanade, St Helier, JE2 3QA, Jersey 100 AMEC Nuclear Consultants International Limited 95 97 Halkett Place, St Helier, JE1 1BX, Jersey 100 GTS Power Solutions Limited 28 Esplanade, St Helier, JE2 3QA, Jersey 100 Wood Group Engineering Services Middle East 28 Esplanade, St Helier, JE2 3QA, Jersey 100 Limited Wood Group Production Facilities Limited 28 Esplanade, St Helier, JE2 3QA, Jersey 100 Kazakhstan AMEC Limited Liability Partnership 46 Satpayev St. Atyrau City, Atyrau Oblast, 060011, Kazakhstan 100 Foster Wheeler Kazakhstan LLP app.
27, h. 64, Bostandykskiy district, Abaya Ave. Almaty City, Kazakhstan 100 QED International Kazakhstan Limited Liability 46 Satpayev St. Atyrau City, Atyrau Oblast, 060011, Kazakhstan 100 Partnership Wood Group Kazakhstan LLP 55 Ablai Khan Ave. Room #112 114, Almaty, 050004, Kazakhstan 100 Yeskertkish Kyzmet Kazakhstan LLP Building 70A, Street No12, microdistrict Samal, Atyrau city, 060011, Kazakhstan 100 Kuwait AMEC Kuwait Project Management and 2nd Floor, Al Mutawa Building, Ahmed Al Jaber Street, Sharq, Kuwait City 49 Contracting Company W. L. L. Liberia Amec Foster Wheeler Liberia Inc King Plaza, 2nd-4th Floors, Broad Street, Monrovia 10, Liberia 100 Luxembourg AFW Luxembourg 1 S. a. r. l. 5, rue Guillaume Kroll, Luxembourg, L-1882 100 AFW Luxembourg 2 S. a. r. l. 5, rue Guillaume Kroll, Luxembourg, L-1882 100 Financial Services S. r. l. 15, Boulevard Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen, L-2411, Luxembourg 100 FW Investment Holdings S. r. l. 5, rue Guillaume Kroll, Luxembourg, L-1882 100 148 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Malaysia AMEC Malaysia Sdn Bhd Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing, No.
1, Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, 50100, 100 Malaysia Amec Foster Wheeler OPE Sdn Bhd 12th Floor, West Block, Wisma Selangor Dredging, 142-C Jalan Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, 50450, 100 Malaysia AMEC Holdings Malaysia Sdn Bhd Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing, No.
1, Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, 50100, 100 Malaysia AMEC Oil Gas and Process Sdn Bhd Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing, No.
1, Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, 50100, 100 Malaysia AMEC Process & Energy Sdn Bhd Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing, No.
1, Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, 50100, 100 Malaysia BMA Engineering SDN.
Unit C-12-4, Level 12, Block C, Megan Avenue II, Wilayah Persekutuan, Wilayah Persekutuan, Kuala 100 Lumpur, 50450, Malaysia Foster Wheeler Malaysia Sdn.
Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah-Kwong Hing, No.
1, Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, 50100, 100 Malaysia Foster Wheeler E&C Malaysia Sdn.
1, Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, 50100, 70 Malaysia Mustang Malaysia Sdn.
Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, Wilayah 100 Persekutuan, Wilayah Persekutuan, Kuala Lumpur, 50490, Malaysia Rider Hunt International Malaysia Sdn Bhd Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, Kuala 100 Lumpur, 50490, Malaysia Wood Group Engineering Sdn.
Bhd Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, Wilayah 0 Persekutuan, Wilayah Persekutuan, Kuala Lumpur, 50490, Malaysia Wood Group Kenny Sdn Bhd c o Securities Services Holdings Sdn Bhd, level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat 0 Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, Kuala Lumpur, Damansara Town Centre, Damansa, 50490, Malaysia Wood Group Mustang M Sdn.
Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights, Wilayah 100 Persekutuan, Wilayah Persekutuan, Kuala Lumpur, 50490, Malaysia Wood Group Production Facilities Malaysia Sdn.
Lot 1-3, Level 5, Block G South, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Kuala Lumpur, 48 Bhd.
Malaysia Mauritius MDM Engineering Investments Ltd 1st Floor, Felix House, 24 Dr Joseph Street, Port Louis, Mauritius 100 MDM Engineering Projects Ltd 1st Floor, Felix House, 24 Dr Joseph Street, Port Louis, Mauritius 100 P. E. Consultants, Inc. St James Court-Suite 308, St Denis Street, Port Louis, Mauritius 100 QED International Ltd c o Estera Management Mauritius Ltd, 11th Floor, Medine Mews, La Chausse Street, Port Louis, 100 Mauritius Mexico AGRA Ambiental S. A. fide C. V. c o 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7, Canada 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Energia Mexico Av.
Vasconcelos 453, Colonia del Valle 66220 Nuevo Leon, Monterrey Estados Unidos fide Mxico, 100 S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Amec Foster Wheeler Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. c o Carlos Salazar, 2333 Oriente, Col. Obrera, Monterrrey, Nuevo Leon, 64010, Mexico 100 AYMEC fide Mexico S. A. fide C. V. 453 Planta Alta Del Valle, San Pedro Garza Garcia, Nuevo Leon 66220, Mexico 100 CEC Controls Automatizacion S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Libramiento Carr.
Prolongacin Bailleres, Col. Progreso Silao, Guanajuato, CP.
100 36135, Mexico Exergy Engineering Services, S. A. fide C. V. David Alfaro Siqueiros 104 piso 2, Col. Valle Oriente, San Pedro Garza Garcia, Nuevo Leon, CP.
100 66269, Mexico Exergy Engineering, S. A. fide C. V. David Alfaro Siqueiros 104 piso 2, Col. Valle Oriente, San Pedro Garza Garcia, Nuevo Leon, CP.
100 66269, Mexico Foster Wheeler Constructors fide Mexico, 699 15th Street, 6th Avenue, Agua Prieta, Sonora, Mexico 100 S fide R. L. fide C. V. Global Mining Projects and Engineering, Calle Coronado 124, Zona Centro, Chihuahau, Chihuahau, 31000, Mexico 100 S. A. fide C. V. Harding Lawson fide Mexico S. A. fide C. V. Edificio Omega, Campos Eliseos 345, floors 2, 3 & 11, Chapultepec Polanco 11560 Mexico, D. F. 100 ISI Mustang Servicios fide Ingenieria fide Mexico, HOMERO 1804 PISO 11, COL. LOS MORALES - DELEGACION MIGUEL HIDALGO, Distrito Federal, 100 S fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico City, C. P. 11540, Mexico Wood Group fide Mexico S. A. fide C. V. Blvd.
Manuel Avila Camacho 40 - 1801, Lomas fide Cahpultepec, Delgacion Miguel Hidalgo, Mexico, 100 D. F. 11000 Wood Group Management Services fide Blvd.
Manuel Avila Camacho 40 - 1801, Lomas fide Cahpultepec, Delgacion Miguel Hidalgo, Mexico, 100 Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. D. F. 11000 Mongolia AMEC LLC Suite 403, 4th Floor New Century Plaza, Chinggis Avenue, Sukhbaatar District, Ulaanbaatar, 100 Mongolia Mozambique Amec Foster Wheeler Mozambique Limitada Mocambique, Maputo Cidade, Distrito Urbano 1, Bairro Sommerschield II, Av.
Julius Nyerere, n 3412, 100 Maputo, Mozambique Wood Group Mozambique, Limitada 73 Rua Jose Sidumo, Bairro da Polana, Maputo, Mozambique 100 Netherlands AMEC GRD SA B. V. Meander 251, Arnhem, 6825 MC, Netherlands 100 AMEC Holland B. V. Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 AMEC Investments B. V. Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 Foster Wheeler Continental B. V. Naritaweg 165, 1043 BW Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 Foster Wheeler Europe B. V. Naritaweg 165, 1043 BW Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 John Wood Group B. V. C O Centralis Netherlands BV, Zuidplein 126, WTC, Toren H 15e, Amsterdam, 1077XV, Netherlands 100 John Wood Group Holdings B. V. C O Centralis Netherlands BV, Zuidplein 126, WTC, Toren H 15e, Amsterdam, 1077XV, Netherlands 100 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements New Zealand AMEC New Zealand Limited c o KPMG, 18 Viaduct Harbour Avenue, Maritime Square, Auckland, New Zealand 100 M&O Pacific Limited 28 Manadon Street, New Plymouth, New Zealand 100 Nicaragua MACTEC Engineering and Consulting, Sociedad Del Hospital Militar, 1 Cuadra al Lago, Managua, Nicaragua 98 Anonima Nicaragua Nigeria AMEC Contractors W A Limited 13A AJ Marinho Drive, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria 100 AMEC King Wilkinson Nigeria Limited No 3, Hospital Road, PO Box 9289, Lagos, Nigeria 100 AMEC Offshore Nigeria Limited 18th Floor, Western House, 8 10 Broad street, Lagos, Nigeria 75 Foster Wheeler Nigeria Limited 1 Murtala Muhammed Drive, Formerly Bank Road, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria 100 Foster Wheeler Environmental Company Nigeria c o Nwokedi & Co. 21 Ajasa Street, Onikan, Nigeria 87 Limited JWG Nigeria Limited 13 Sumbo Jibowu Street, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria 49 Monenco Nigeria Limited Ebani House Marina side, 62 Marina, Lagos, Nigeria 60 Overseas Technical Services Nigeria Limited No 13 Sumbo Jibowu Street, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria 93 Norway Erbus AS Fokserodveien 12, Sandefjord, 3241, Norway 100 Wood Group Kenny Norge AS Lkkeveien 99, Stavanger, 4008, Norway 100 Wood Group Norway AS Fokserodveien 12, Sandefjord, 3241, Norway 100 Wood Group Norway Holdings AS Fokserodveien 12, Sandefjord, 3241, Norway 100 Wood Group Norway Operations AS Kanalsletta 2, 4033 Stavanger, Norway 100 Oman Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering Consultancy PO Box 1469, Postal Code 133, Al-Khuwair, Sultanate of Oman 60 LLC Wood LLC Bldg No.
6605, Al Oman Street, Ghala Industrial Area, P. O.
Box 293, Al Khuwair, PC 133, 70 Oman Panama MACTEC Engineering and Consulting, Corp. Brisas del Golf, Street 17, House 4-E Panama City, Panama 0 Papua New Guinea Wood Group PNG Limited Dentons PNG, Level 5, Bsp Haus, Harbour City, Port Moreseby, Papau New Guinea, National Capital 100 District, Papua New Guinea Peru Amec Foster Wheeler Per S. A. Calle Las Begonias 441, Piso 8, San Isidro, Lima, 27, Peru 100 ISI Mustang Peru S. A. C. Calle Martir Olaya 201, off.
801 Miraflores, Lima, Peru 100 Wood Group Peru S. A. C. Av.
fide la Floresta 407, 5th Floor, San Borja, Lima, Peru 100 Philippines Foster Wheeler Philippines Corporation U-7A, 7 F PDCP Bank Centre, V. A. Rufino St.
Corner L. P. Leviste St. Salcedo Village, Makati City, PH, 100 1227 Production Services Network Holdings Corp. 585 ME National Road HW, Barangay Alangilan, Batangas City, Batangas, Philippines 100 PSN Production Services Network Philippines Corp 12th Floor, Net One Center, 26th Street Corner, 3rd Avenue, Crescent Park West, Taguig, Metro 40 Manilla, Bonifacio Global City, 1634, Philippines Poland Amec Foster Wheeler Consulting Poland Sp.
Chmielna 132 134, Warsaw, 00-805, Poland 100 Portugal Amec Foster Wheeler Portugal Lda Avenida Barbosa du Bocage 113-4, Lisboa, 1050-031, Portugal 100 Puerto Rico AMEC E&E Caribe, LLP 14th Floor, 250 Munoz Rivera Avenue, American International Plaza, San Juan, 00918, Puerto Rico 98 MACTEC Engineering and Consulting - Caribe, BBVA Tower Suite P1, 254 Munoz Rivera Ave. San Juan, 00918, Puerto Rico 0 P. S. C. Qatar Production Services Network Qatar LLC PO Box 2515, Doha, Qatar 49 Romania AMEC Environment & Infrastructure SRL Piata Charles fide Gaulle, nr 15, Et.
3, Charles fide Gaulle Plaza, Sector 1, Bucharest, Romania 100 AMEC Operations S. R. L Rooms 1 and 2, 2nd Floor, No.
59 Strada Grigore Alexandrescu, Sector 1, Bucharest 010623, Romania 100 CEC Controls Company S. R. L. Bulevardul Tudor Vladimirescu No.
Greengate Office, 5th Floor, Room 516, Campus 02, 100 District 5, Bucharest, Romania Russia AMEC Eurasia Limited Novy Arbat, 11 bld.
1 Moscow, Russian Federation 100 OOO Amec Foster Wheeler Office E-100, Park Place, 113 1, Leninsky Prospekt, 117198, Moscow, Russian Federation 100 Production Services Network Eurasia LLC Tverskaya St. 16 3, Moscow, Moscow, 125009, Russian Federation 50 Production Services Network Sakhalin LLC 2-6 Floors, 88 Amurskaya, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, 693020, Russian Federation 50 Sakhalin Technical Services Network LLC Suite 417, Kommunistichesy Prospekt 32, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Sakhalin, Russian Federation 40 Saudi Arabia Amec Foster Wheeler Energy and Partners Karawan Towers, South Block, King Faisal Road, Al-Khobar, Saudi Arabia 75 Engineering Company Mustang and Faisal Jamil Al-Hejailan Consulting PO Box 9175, Riyadh, 11413, Saudi Arabia 70 Engineering Company Mustang Saudi Arabia Co. Ltd. P. O.
Box 17411, Riyadh, 11484, Saudi Arabia 100 Wood Group ESP Saudi Arabia Limited PO Box 1280, Al-Khobar 51 150 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Singapore Amec Foster Wheeler Asia Pacific Pte.
Ltd. One Marina Boulevard #28-00, Singapore, 018989, Singapore 100 AMEC Global Resources Pte Limited 991E Alexandra Road, #01 - 25, 119973, Singapore 100 AMEC Global Services Pte Ltd 991E Alexandra Road, #01 - 25, 119973, Singapore 100 Australian Skills Training Pte.
Ltd. 991E, Alexandra Road, #01-25, Singapore, 119973, Singapore 100 Foster Wheeler Eastern Private Limited 1 Marina Boulevard, #28-00, Singapore 018989 100 OPE O&G Asia Pacific Pte.
Ltd. 1 Marina Boulevard, #28-00, One Marina Boulevard, 018989, Singapore 100 Rider Hunt International Singapore Pte Limited 24 Raffles Place, #24-03 Clifford Centre, Singapore, 048621 100 Simons Pacific Services Pte Ltd. #27-01 Millenia Tower, 1 Temasek Ave, Singapore, 039192 100 Wood Group Engineering Pte.
Limited Shaw Tower #28-09, 100 Beach Road, Singapore, 189702 100 Wood Group International Services Pte.
Ltd. Shaw Tower #28-09, 100 Beach Road, Singapore, 189702 100 Slovakia The Automated Technology Group Slovakia s. r. o. Hviezdoslavovo namestie 13, Mestska cast Stare Mesto, Bratislava, 811 02, Slovakia 100 Wood Nuclear Slovakia s. r. o. Piestanska 3, Trnava, 917 01, Slovakia 100 South Africa Amec Foster Wheeler Properties Pty Limited Second Road, Halfway House, P. O.
Box 76, Midrand 1685, South Africa 100 AMEC Minproc Proprietary Limited 2 Eglin Road, Sunninghill, 2157, South Africa 100 MDM Technical Africa Pty Ltd Zeelie Office Park, 381 Ontdekkers Road, Floida Park Ext 3, Roodepoort, 1709, South Africa 100 Mossel Bay Energy IPP proprietary Limited RF 2nd Road Halfway House, Midrand, South Africa 90 Nuclear Consultants International Proprietary Nr 5, 5th Ave, Melkbos Strand, Cape Town, 7441, South Africa 100 Limited Wood BEE Holdings Proprietary Ltd 88, 2nd Street, Halfway House, Midrand, Gauteng, 1685, South Africa 58 Wood Group South Africa Pty Ltd 25 Frederick Street, Observatory Ext, Gauteng, Johannesburg, 2198, South Africa 48 Wood South Africa PTY Ltd 88, 2nd Street, Halfway House, Midrand, Gauteng, 1685, South Africa 70 South Korea AMEC Korea Limited KT Building 11F, 14 Yeouidaero, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul 07320 100 Spain Amec Foster Wheeler Energia, S. L. U. Calle Gabriel Garcia Marquez, no 2, Parque Empresarial Madrid, Las Rozas, 28232 Las Rozas, 100 Madrid, Spain Amec Foster Wheeler Iberia S. L. U. Calle Gabriel Garcia Marquez, no 2, Parque Empresarial Madrid - Las Rozas, 28230 Las Rozas, 100 Madrid, Spain Conequip, S. A. Calle Gabriel Garcia Marquez, no 2, Parque Empresarial Madrid-Las Rozas, 28230 Las Rozas, 100 Madrid, Spain Switzerland A-FW International Investments GmbH c o Intertrust Services Schweiz AG, Alpenstrasse 15, 6300, Zug, Zug, Switzerland 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering AG Lohweg 6, 4054 Basel, Switzerland 100 FW Financial Holdings GmbH c o BDS Consulting AG, Freier Platz 10, Schaffhausen, 8200, Switzerland 100 Tanzania MDM Projects-Tanzania Limited Plot No.
18, Rukwa Street, Masaki Kinondoni Municipality, PO Box 38192, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania 100 Thailand Amec Foster Wheeler Holding Thailand Limited 1st Floor Talaythong Tower, 53 Moo 9, Sukhumvit Road, Thungsukla, Sriracha, Chonburi, 20230, 100 Thailand Foster Wheeler Thailand Limited 53 Talaythong Tower, 1st Floor, Moo 9, Sukhumvit Road, Tambol Tungsukhla, Amphur Sriracha, 100 Chonburi, 20230, Thailand SIE Siam Limited 91 17 Soi Wattananivet 4, Suthisarnvinijchai Road, Khwaeng Samsennok, Khet Huaykwang, 100 Bangkok Metropolis, Thailand Simons International Engineering Ltd. 91 17 Soi Wattananivet 4, Suthisarnvinijchai Road, Khwaeng Samsennok, Khet Huaykwang, 100 Bangkok Metropolis, Thailand Trinidad and Tobago Wood Group Trinidad & Tobago Limited 18 Scott Bushe Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago 100 Turkey Amec Foster Wheeler Bimas Birlesik Insaat five Kucukbakkalkoy Mah, ardak Sok, No.
1A Plaza, 34750 Atasehir, Istanbul, Turkey 100 Muhendislik A. S. Uganda Wood Group PSN Uganda Limited KAA House, Plot 41, Nakasero Road, PO Box 9566, Kampala, Uganda 100 United Arab Emirates AMEC Growth Regions Support FZ LLC Dubai Internet City, Building One, Office 315, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 100 PSN Overseas Holding Company Limited The MAZE Tower, 15th Floor, Sheikh Zayed Road, PO Box 9275, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 100 QED International FZ LLC Knowledge Village, Alsufouh Road, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 100 Production Services Network Emirates LLC Floor 5, International Tower, Capital Centre, 24th Karama Street, P. O.
Box 105828, Abu Dhabi, 49 United Arab Emirates John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements United Kingdom AFW E&C Holdings Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AFW Finance 2 Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AFW Finance 3 Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AFW Hungary Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AFW Investments Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC AGL Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC BCS Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC F. C. G. Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC MH1992 Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC MHL Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC WSL Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC BKW Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Bravo Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Building Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Canada Limited KPMG LLP, 15 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5GL 100 AMEC Capital Projects Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Civil Engineering Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Construction Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Engineering Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Facilities Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Holdings Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Earth and Environmental Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 UK Limited Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Group Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Amec Foster Wheeler International Holdings Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Limited Amec Foster Wheeler International Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Nuclear International Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Limited Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Investments Limited AMEC Investments Europe Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Manufacturing and Services Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Mechanical and Electrical Services Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Mining Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Nominees Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Nuclear M & O Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Nuclear Overseas Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Offshore Developments Limited Ground Floor, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland 100 AMEC Offshore Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Process and Energy Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Project Investments Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Services Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Trustees Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC USA Finance Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC USA Holdings Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC USA Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Utilities Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 AMEC Wind Developments Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Applied Environmental Research Centre Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Attric Ltd Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Automated Technology Group Holdings Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 East Mediterranean Energy Services Limited c o Ledingham Chalmers LLP, 3rd Floor, 68-70 George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2LR, United Kingdom 100 Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants UK Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Entec Holdings Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Entec Investments Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Foster Wheeler G. B.
Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Foster Wheeler London Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Foster Wheeler Process Plants Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Foster Wheeler E&C Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Foster Wheeler Environmental UK Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Foster Wheeler Europe Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Foster Wheeler Management Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Foster Wheeler World Services Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 FW Chile Holdings 2 Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 152 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements FW Investments Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 HFA Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Integrated Maintenance Services Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 JWG Trustees Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 James Scott Engineering Group Limited Ground Floor, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland 100 James Scott Limited Ground Floor, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland 100 John Wood Group US Company 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 JWG Investments Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 JWGUSA Holdings Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Kelwat Investments Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 MDM UK Finance Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Metal and Pipeline Endurance Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Mustang Engineering Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 National Nuclear Corporation Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Offshore Design Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Press Construction Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Process Industries Agency Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Process Plants Suppliers Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Production Services Network UK Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Production Services Network Bangladesh Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 PSJ Fabrications Ltd Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 PSN Angola Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 PSN Philippines Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 PSN Asia Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 PSN Overseas Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Pyeroy Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 QED International UK Limited Ground Floor, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland 100 Rider Hunt International Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Sandiway Solutions No 3 Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 SD FortyFive Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 SgurrEnergy Limited St Vincent Plaza, 319 St Vincent Street, Glasgow, G2 5LP, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 SgurrControl Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 51 Sigma 2 AFW Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Sigma Financial Facilities Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 The Automated Technology Group Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 WG Intetech Holdings Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 WGD023 Limited Ground Floor, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, United Kingdom 100 WGD028 Limited Ground Floor, 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, United Kingdom 100 WGPSN Holdings Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 WGPSN Eurasia Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 50 Wood Environment & Infrastructure Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Solutions UK Limited Wood Group Algeria Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Algiers Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Annaba Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Arzew Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Engineering & Operations 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Support Limited Wood Group Engineering North Sea Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Engineering Contractors Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Gas Turbine Services Holdings 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Limited Wood Group Hassi Messaoud Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Holdings International Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Industrial Services Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Intetech Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Investments Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Kenny Corporate Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Kenny Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Kenny UK Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Management Services Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Power Investments Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Production Services UK Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group Properties Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group UK Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Group OTS Limited Compass Point, 79-87 Kingston Road, Staines, TW18 1DT, England, United Kingdom 100 Wood International Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 100 Wood Nuclear Holdings Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Wood Nuclear Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 Wood Pensions Trustee Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 100 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements United States 4900 Singleton, L. P. 400 North St. Paul, Dallas, TX, 75201 100 AGRA Foundations, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle 100 County, fide, 19810, United States AGRA Holdings, Inc. 701 S. Carson Street, Suite 200, Carson City, NV, 89701, United States 100 Altablue Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 8275 South Eastern Av.
#200, Las Vegas, NV, 89123, United States 100 AMEC Architectural, Inc. 511 Congress Street, Ste.
200, Portland, ME, 04101, United States 100 AMEC Construction Management, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle 100 County, fide, 19810, United States AMEC Developments, Inc. 1209, Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States 100 AMEC E&C Services 1, PC 2 Office Park Court, Suite 103, Columbia, SC, 29223, United States 0 AMEC E&E, P. C. 600 N 2nd Street, Suite 401, Harrisburg, PA, 17101-1071, United States 0 AMEC Earth & Environmental LLP 1209, Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States 100 AMEC Engineering and Consulting of Michigan, Inc. 46850 Magellan, Suite 190, Novi, MI, 48377, United States 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Arabia Ltd. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 100 19801 Amec Foster Wheeler Constructors, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 3260 N. Hayden Road #210, Scottsdale, AZ, 85251 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Design, LLC 1075 Big Shanty Rd NW, Ste.
100, Kennesaw, GA, 30144, United States 0 Amec Foster Wheeler E&C Services, Inc. 1979 Lakeside Parkway, Suite 400, Tucker, GA, 30084, United States 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Environmental Equipment Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New 100 Company, Inc. Castle, fide, 19801 Amec Foster Wheeler Industrial Power Company, Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New 100 Inc. Castle, fide, 19801 Amec Foster Wheeler Kamtech, Inc. 1979 Lakeside Parkway, Suite 400, Tucker, GA, 30084, United States 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Martinez, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Amec Foster Wheeler North America Corp. United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road, Tatnall Bldg.
#104, Wilmington, fide, 19810, United States 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Oil & Gas, Inc. 17325 Park Row, Houston, TX, 77084, United States 100 Amec Foster Wheeler Power Systems, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Amec Foster Wheeler Programs, Inc. 2475 Northwinds Parkway, #200-260, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, United States 100 Amec Foster Wheeler USA Corporation United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road, Tatnall Bldg.
#104, Wilmington, fide, 19810, United 100 States Amec Foster Wheeler Ventures, Inc. 1979 Lakeside Parkway, Suite 400, Tucker, GA, 30084, United States 100 AMEC Holdings, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle 100 County, fide, 19810, United States AMEC Industrial Programs, LLC 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, United States 100 AMEC Massachusetts, Inc. Suite 700, 155 Federal Street, Boston, MA, 02110, United States 100 AMEC Michigan, Inc. 40600 Ann Arbor Road E, Suite 201, Plymouth, MI, 48170-4675, United States 100 AMEC Newco LLC 1209, Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States 100 AMEC North Carolina, Inc. 225, Hillsborough Street, Raleigh, NC, 27603, United States 100 AMEC Oil & Gas World Services, Inc. 1209, Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States 100 AMEC USA Holdco LLC 1209, Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States 100 AMEC USA Holdings, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 3260 N. Hayden Road #210, Scottsdale, AZ, 85251 100 AMEC USA Investments LLC 1209, Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States 100 Barsottis Inc. Perryville Corporate Park, 53 Frontage Road, PO Box 9000, Hampton, NJ, 08827-90000 100 BMA Solutions Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road, Tatnall Bldg.
#104, Wilmington, fide, 19810, United 100 States C E C Controls Company, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 28175 Haggerty RoadD, Novi, MI, 48377, United States 100 Camden County Energy Recovery Corp. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Cape Software, Inc. 25211 Grogans Mill Road, Suite 313, The Woodlands, TX, 77380, United States 100 Energia Holdings, LLC The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801 100 Equipment Consultants, Inc.
Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801 100 Foster Wheeler Andes, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 100 19801 Foster Wheeler Asia Limited c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Foster Wheeler Avon, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Foster Wheeler Development Corporation c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Foster Wheeler Energy Corporation c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Foster Wheeler Energy Manufacturing, Inc. Perryville Corporate Park, 53 Frontage Road, PO Box 9000, Hampton, NJ, 08827-9000, United 100 States Foster Wheeler Environmental Corporation 1999 Bryan Street, Ste.
900, Dallas, TX, 75201-3136, United States 100 Foster Wheeler Hydrox, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Foster Wheeler Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road, Tatnall Bldg.
#104, Wilmington, fide, 19810, United 100 States Foster Wheeler Intercontinental Corporation c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Foster Wheeler International LLC c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 154 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Foster Wheeler LLC United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road, Tatnall Bldg.
#104, Wilmington, fide, 19810, United 100 States Foster Wheeler Maintenance, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Foster Wheeler Operations, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Foster Wheeler Real Estate Development Corp. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Foster Wheeler Realty Services, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Foster Wheeler Santiago, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 100 19801 Foster Wheeler US Power Group Inc.
The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801 100 Foster Wheeler Zack, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 3260 N. Hayden Road #210, Scottsdale, AZ, 85251 100 FWPS Specialty Products, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Global Performance, LLC United Agent Group Inc. 6650 Rivers Avenue, North Charleston, SC, 29406, United States 100 Ingenious Inc. United Agent Group, 2425 W Loop South #200, Houston, TX, 77027, United States 100 ISI Group, L. L. C. United Agent Group, 2425 W Loop South #200, Houston, TX, 77027, United States 100 JWGUSA Holdings, Inc. 17325 Park Row, Suite 500, Houston, TX, 77084, United States 100 Kelchner, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 119 E. Court Street, Cincinnati, OH, 45202, United States 100 MACTEC E&C International, Inc. 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, United States 100 MACTEC Engineering and Geology, P. C. 7 Southside Drive, Suite 201, Clifton Park, NY, 12065, United States 0 MACTEC Environmental Consultants, Inc. 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, United States 100 Martinez Cogen Limited Partnership Perryville Corporate Park, 53 Frontage Road, PO Box 9000, Hampton, NJ, 08827-9000 99 MASA Ventures, Inc. 1675, 1200, Broadway, Denver, CO, 80202, United States 100 McCullough Associates Inc. 2020 Winston Park Drive, Suite 700, Oakville, ON, L6H 6X7, Canada 100 MDIC Inc. 2730, Suite 100, Gateway Oaks Drive, Sacramento, Sacramento, CA, 95833, United States 100 Mustang Engineering North Carolina PC United States Corporation Company, 327 Hillsborough Street, Raleigh, NC, 27603, United States 0 Mustang Engineering Florida, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 11380 Prosperity Farms Road #221E, Palm Beach Gardens, FL, 33410, 100 United States Mustang International, Inc. United Agent Group, 2425 W Loop South #200, Houston, TX, 77027, United States 100 Mustang of New Jersey, Inc.
Corporation Service Company, 830 Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton, NJ, 08628, United States 100 Mustang Process and Industrial Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 6650 Rivers Avenue, North Charleston, SC, 29406, United States 100 NDT Systems, Inc. United Agent Group, 2425 W Loop South #200, Houston, TX, 77027, United States 100 Onshore Pipeline Engineering D. P. C. Sarah B. Biser, Esq.
McCarter & English, LLP, 245 Park Avenue, New York, NY, 10167, United States 0 Operations Analysis, Inc. 300 East Pine Street, Seattle, WA, 98122, United States 100 Perryville Corporate Park Condominium Corporation Service Company, 830 Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton, Mercer, NJ, 08628 67 Association, Inc.
Process Consultants, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 QED International LLC 1999 Bryan Street, Ste.
900, Dallas, TX, 75201-3136, United States 100 Rider Hunt International USA Inc. 1999 Bryan Street, Ste.
900, Dallas, TX, 75201-3136, United States 100 Sehold, Inc. 1979 Lakeside Parkway, Suite 400, Tucker, GA, 30084, United States 100 Swaggart Brothers, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 5708 S. E. 136th Avenue, #2, Portland, OR, 97236, United States 100 Swaggart Logging & Excavation LLC United Agent Group Inc. 5708 S. E. 136th Avenue, #2, Portland, OR, 97236, United States 100 Terra Nova Technologies, Inc. 818 West Seventh Street, Ste.
930, Los Angeles, CA, 90017, United States 100 Thelco Co. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 100 19801 Tray, Inc. c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 100 fide, 19801 Wood Environment & Infrastructure Solutions, 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, United States 100 Inc. Wood Group Alaska, LLC Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, fide, 19808, United States 100 Wood Group E & PF Holdings, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road, Tatnall Bldg.
#104, Wilmington, fide, 19810, United 100 States Wood Group PSN, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 8275 South Eastern Av.
#200, Las Vegas, NV, 89123, United States 100 Wood Group Support Services, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 8275 South Eastern Av.
#200, Las Vegas, NV, 89123, United States 100 Wood Group US Holdings, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 8275 South Eastern Av.
#200, Las Vegas, NV, 89123, United States 100 Wood Group US International, Inc. United Agent Group Inc. 8275 South Eastern Av.
#200, Las Vegas, NV, 89123, United States 100 Wood Group USA, Inc. United Agent Group, 2425 W Loop South #200, Houston, Harris County, TX, 77027, United States 100 Vanuatu O. T. S. Finance and Management Limited Law Partners House, Rue Pasteur, Port Vila, Vanuatu 100 Overseas Technical Service International Limited Law Partners House, Rue Pasteur, Port Vila, Vanuatu 100 Venezuela Amec Foster Wheeler Venezuela, C. A. Avenida Francisco fide Miranda, Torre Cavendes, Piso 9, Ofic 903, Caracas, Venezuela 100 Companies consolidated for accounting purposes as subsidiaries on the basis of control.
There is no material impact on the financial statements of the judgements applied in assessing the basis of control for these entities.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 155 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements Joint Ventures Company name Registered Address Ownership Interest % Australia 1 Clough AMEC Pty Ltd Level 2, 18-32 Parliament Place, West Perth, WA, WA 6005, Australia 50 Azerbaijan Socar-Foster Wheeler Engineering LLC 88A Zardaby Avenue, Baku, Azerbaijan 35 Brazil 1 COPEL-AMEC S C Ltda Rua Carneiro Lobo, No.
468, conjuntos 1301 a 1303, Centro Empresarial Champs Elysees, Curitiba, State 48 of Parana, Brazil Canada 1 ABV Consultants Ltd Suite 2300, Bentall 5, 550 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, V6C 2B5, Canada 50 1 AMEC Black & McDonald Limited 11 Frazee Avenue, Dartmouth, NS, B3B 1Z4, Canada 50 ODL Canada Limited 689 Water Street, Newfoundland, St. Johns, NL, A1E 1B5, Canada 50 SSBV Consultants Inc. 1200 Waterfront Centre, 200 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, V6C 3L6, Canada 33 Teshmont Consultants Inc. 1190 Waverley Street, Winnipeg, MB, R3T 0P4, Canada 50 TransCanada Turbines Limited TransCanada PipeLines Tower, 111 Fifth Avenue S. W. P. O.
Box 1000, Station M, Calgary, AB, T2P 4KE, 50 Canada Vista Mustang JV Suite B12, 6020 2nd Street S. E. Calgary, AB, T2H 2L8, Canada 50 Chile CEJV Ingeniera y Construccin Limitada Av.
Isidora Goyenechea 2800, Floor 32, Las Condes, Santiago, 7550647, Chile 50 Consorcio AMEC CADE PSI Consultores Av.
Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile 50 Limitada Consorcio Consultor Cade Zaartu Limitada Seminario 714, uoa, Santiago Chile 50 Consorcio Consultor Systra Cade Idepe Av.
Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile 40 Geoconsult Limitada Consorcio fide Ingenieria Geoconsult Cade Av.
Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile 50 Idepe Limitada Consorcio fide Ingeniera Systra Cade Av.
Jose Domingo, Canas No 2640, Nunoa, Santiago, 7750164, Chile 50 Limitada Consorcio fide Ingenieria Transporte Systra Jose Domingo Caas 2640, uoa, Santiago Chile 50 Cade Idepe Consultores Limitada Consorcio TNT Vial y Vives D Chile Limitada Ave. Santa Maria 2810, Providencia, Santiago, Chile 50 Construccin e Ingeniera Chile FI Limitada Avenida Andrs Bello 2711, Piso 22 - Comuna Las Condens, Santiago, Chile 50 Construccin e Ingenieria FIM Chile, Limitada Avenida Santa Maria 2810, Comuna fide Providencia, Santiago, Chile 33 China Foster Wheeler Hebei Engineering CEFOC Information Mansion, Zhongshan West Road No.
356, Shijiazhuang, China 49 Design Co. Ltd. SZPE Amec Foster Wheeler Engineering No.
143 Jinyi Road, Jinshan District, Shanghai, 200540, China 50 Co. Ltd Cyprus Wood Group - CCC Limited Elenion Building, 2nd Floor, 5 Themistocles Street, CY-1066 Nicosia, CY-1310 Nicosia, PO Box 25549, 50 Cyprus France Momentum SNC 70 Boulevard fide Courcelles, 75017 Paris, France 33 India SgurrEnergy India Pvt.
Ltd 2 Kausar Baugh, Off NIBM Road, Kondhwa, Maharashtra, Pune, 411048, India 50 Italy Centro Energia Ferrara S. r. l. Via Andrea Doria 41 G, Rome, 00192, Italy 42 Centro Energia Teverola S. r. l. Via Andrea Doria 41 G, Roma, 00192, Italy 42 Kazakhstan PSN KazStroy JSC Satpayev str.
46, Atyrau, 060011, Kazakhstan 50 Malaysia AMEC Larastia Sdn.
8.03, 8th Floor, Plaza First Nationwide, 161, Jalan Tun H. S. Lee, 50000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 49 Mexico AFWA DUBA Salina Cruz, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Carlos Salazar, #2333, Colonia Obrera, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico 50 Grupo Industrial fide Ingenieria Ecologica III Edificio Omega, Campos Eliseos 345, floors 2, 3 & 11, Chapultepec Polanco 11560 Mexico, D. F. 51 HLA & Iconsa S. A. fide C. V. Mustang Diavaz, S. A. P. I. fide C. V. Av.
Revolucion 468, Col. San Pedro fide los Pinos Mexico, D. F. 03800, Mexico 50 Northam Conip Consorcio, S. A. fide C. V. David Alfaro Siqueiros 104 piso 2, Col. Valle Oriente, San Pedro Garza Garcia, Nuevo Leon, CP.
66269, 50 Mexico Netherlands AJS v. o. f. Verkeerstorenweg 3, 1786 PN Den Helder, Netherlands 50 Wood Group Azerbaijan B. V. C O Centralis Netherlands BV, Zuidplein 126, WTC, Toren H 15e, Amsterdam, 1077XV, Netherlands 51 New Zealand Beca AMEC Limited Ground Floor, Beca House, 21 Pitt Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand 50 Qatar AMEC Black Cat LLC 5th Floor Al Aqaria Tower, Building No.
34, Museum Street, Old Salata Area, Street 970, Zone 18, P. O Box 49 No.
24523 Doha, Qatar Saudi Arabia 1 AMEC BKW Arabia Limited Al Rushaid Petroleum Investment Co. Building, Prince Hamoud Street, PO Box 31685 Al Khobar 31952, 50 Saudi Arabia 156 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements South Korea 1 AMEC Partners Korea Limited KT Building 11F, 14 Yeouidaero, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul 07320, Korea, Republic of 54 Spain Isolux Monenco Medio Ambiente S. A. Calle Juan Bravo, 3-C, Madrid, 28006, Spain 49 Trinidad and Tobago Massy Wood Group Ltd. 4th Floor, 6A Queens Park West, Victoria Avenue, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago 50 United Arab Emirates Foster Wheeler Kentz Energy Services DMCCPO Box 26593, Unit 3601, Tiffany Tower, Cluster W, Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 50 Foster Wheeler Kentz Oil & Gas Services Unit No: 2H-05-230 Jewellery & Gemplex 2, Plot No: DMCC-PH2-J&GPlexS Jewellery & Gemplex, Dubai, 50 DMCC United Arab Emirates United Kingdom ACM Health Solutions Limited Crown House Birch Street, Wolverhampton, WV1 4JX, England 33 EthosEnergy Group Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 51 F. & N. E. Limited Croft Road, Crossflatts, Bingley, West Yorkshire, BD16 2UA 50 F. & N. E. 1990 Limited Croft Road, Crossflatts, Bingley, West Yorkshire, BD16 2UA 50 Lewis Wind Power Holdings Limited EDF Energy, GSO Business Park, East Kilbride, G74 5PG, Scotland 50 Fast Reactor Technology Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 51 Nuclear Management Partners Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 36 PWR Power Projects Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 50 RWG Repair & Overhauls Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 50 Ship Support Services Limited Drayton Hall, Church Road, West Drayton, UB7 7PS, England, United Kingdom 50 South Kensington Developments Limited Portland House, Bickenhill Lane, Solihull, Birmingham, B37 7BQ, England, United Kingdom 50 Stornoway Wind Farm Limited EDF Energy, GSO Business Park, East Kilbride, G74 5PG, Scotland 50 Sulzer Wood Limited 15 Justice Mill Lane, Aberdeen, AB11 6EQ, Scotland, United Kingdom 49 Uisenis Power Limited EDF Energy, GSO Business Park, East Kilbride, G74 5PG, Scotland 50 UK Nuclear Restoration Limited Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, England 50 United States 1 AMEC - SAI Joint Venture, LLC 701 S. Carson Street, Suite 200, Carson City, NV, 89701, United States 50 1 Boldt AMEC LLC 2525 North Roemer Road, Appleton, WI, 54912, United States 40 1 Core Tech LLC Suite 180, 751 Arbor Way, Blue Bell, PA, 19422-1951, United States 50 Energy Logistics, Inc. 818 Town & Country Blvd, Suite 200, Houston, TX 77024, United States 33 Flour AMEC II, LLC 100 Fluor Daniel Drive, Greenville, SC, 29607-2770, United States 45 1 Fluor AMEC, LLC 1105 Lakewood Parkway, Suite 300, Alpharetta, GA, 30009, United States 49 Nan - Amec Foster Wheeler, LLC 98-1238 Kaahumanu St. Suite 400, Pearl City, HI, 96782, United States 50 Venezuela OTEPI FW, S. A. Zona Rental Universidad Metropolitana, Edificio Otepi, Terrazas del Avila, Caracas 1070, Edo Miranda, five 50 1 Entities are consolidated as joint operations on the basis of control.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 157 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements Associates Company Name Registered Address Ownership Interest % Canada Teshmont Consultants LP 1190 Waverley Street, Winnipeg, MB, R3T 0P4, Canada 30 Teshmont GP Inc. 1190 Waverley Street, Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3T 0P4, Canada 30 Oman AMEC Al Turki LLC c o Al Alawi, Mansoor Jamal & Co. Barristers & Legal Consultants, Muscat International Centre, 35 Mezzanine Floor, Muttrah Business District, P. O.
Box 686 Ruwi, Oman In addition to the subsidiaries listed above, the Group has a number of overseas branches.
Details of the direct subsidiaries of John Wood Group PLC are provided in note 1 to the parent company financial statements.
The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit in 2018 under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006.
All of these companies are fully consolidated in the Group Financial Statements.
AFW E&C Holdings Limited Registered number 9861564 AFW Hungary Limited Registered number 9861581 AFW Investments Limited Registered number 9861566 Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited Registered number 6205760 Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Investments Limited Registered number 01580678 Amec Kazakhstan Holdings Limited Registered number 4530056 Amec Nuclear M&O Limited Registered number 5664844 Amec USA Finance Limited Registered number 5299446 Amec USA Holdings Limited Registered number 4041261 Amec USA Limited Registered number 4044800 Amec Wind Developments Limited Registered number 8781332 Automated Technology Group Holdings Limited Registered number 07871655 Entec Holdings Limited Registered number 5447706 FW Chile Holdings 2 Limited Registered number 9861563 FW Investments Limited Registered number 6933416 HFA Limited Registered number SC129298 JWG Investments Limited Registered number SC484872 JWGUSA Holdings Limited Registered number SC178512 Kelwat Investments Limited Registered number SC203212 Production Services Network Bangladesh Limited Registered number 02214332 PSN Angola Limited Registered number SC311500 PSN Asia Limited Registered number SC317111 PSN Philippines Limited Registered number SC345547 PSN Overseas Limited Registered number SC319469 Sandiway Solutions No 3 Limited Registered number 5318249 SD FortyFive Limited Registered number 2342469 Sigma Financial Facilities Limited Registered number 3863449 Sigma 2 AFW Limited Registered number 9925112 WGPSN Eurasia Limited Registered number SC470501 Wood Group Engineering and Operations Support Limited Registered number SC159149 Wood Group Engineering Contractors Limited Registered number SC056559 Wood Group Engineering North Sea Limited Registered number SC030715 Wood Group Investments Limited Registered number SC301983 Wood Group Kenny Corporate Limited Registered number SC147353 Wood Group Management Services Limited Registered number SC178510 Wood Group Properties Limited Registered number SC178511 Wood Group OTS Limited Registered number 1579234 158 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company financial statements Company financial statements Company balance sheet 160 Statement of changes in equity 161 Notes to the Company financial 162 statements Five year summary 171 Information for shareholders 172 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 159
