Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures for the year ended 31st March 2018 The group uses various measures to manage its business which are not defined by generally accepted accounting principles GAAP.
The groups management believes these measures provide valuable additional information to users of the accounts in understanding the groups performance.
Sales excluding precious metals sales The group believes that sales excluding precious metals is a better measure of the underlying performance of the group than revenue.
Total revenue can be heavily distorted by year on year fluctuations in the market prices of precious metals.
In addition, in many cases, the value of precious metals is passed directly on to our customers.
Underlying profit and earnings These are the equivalent GAAP measures adjusted to exclude amortisation of acquired intangibles, major impairment and restructuring charges, profit or loss on disposal of businesses, gain or loss on significant legal proceedings together with associated legal costs, significant tax rate changes and, where relevant, related tax effects.
The group believes that these measures provide a better guide to the underlying performance of the group.
These are reconciled in note 4.
Margin Underlying operating profit divided by sales excluding precious metals.
Working capital days Non-precious metal related inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables including any classified as held for sale divided by sales excluding precious metals for the last three months multiplied by 90 days.
Free cash flow Net cash flow from operating activities, after net interest paid, net purchases of non-current assets and investments and dividends received from joint venture.
Capex Additions of property, plant and equipment plus additions of other intangible assets.
Capex to depreciation ratio Capex divided by depreciation.
Depreciation is the depreciation charge of property, plant and equipment plus the amortisation charge of other intangible assets excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles note 7.
Working capital excluding precious metals 2018 2017 million million Inventories 783 772 Trade and other receivables 1,228 1,139 Trade and other payables 1,012 968 Total working capital 999 943 Less precious metal working capital 404 335 Working capital excluding precious metals 595 608 Free cash flow 2018 2017 million million Net cash flow from operating activities 386 523 Dividends received from joint venture 1 Interest received 3 5 Interest paid 45 42 Purchases of non-current assets and investments 216 260 Proceeds from sale of non-current assets and investments 7 4 Free cash flow 136 230 Other Other non-GAAP measures are reconciled in the relevant note.
191 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
