Accounting policies for the year ended 31st March 2018 Basis of accounting and preparation The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC or the Standing Interpretations Committee SIC as adopted by the European Union.
For Johnson Matthey, there are no differences between IFRS as adopted by the European Union and full IFRS as published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and so the accounts comply with IFRS.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value as explained below.
The parent company has not presented its own income statement, statement of total comprehensive income and related notes as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Expenses within 2017s Consolidated Income Statement have been reclassified as follows: increase administrative expenses 22 million, reduce cost of sales 19 million and reduce distribution costs 3 million.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the parent company and all its subsidiaries, including the employee share ownership trust, and include the groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
Entities the group controls are accounted for as subsidiaries.
Entities that are joint ventures or associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Transactions and balances between group companies are eliminated.
No profit is taken on transactions between group companies.
The results of businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are consolidated from or up to the effective date of acquisition or disposal, respectively.
The net assets of businesses acquired are recognised in the consolidated accounts at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
In the parent company balance sheet, businesses acquired from other group companies are recognised at book value at the date of acquisition.
The difference between the consideration paid and the book value of the net assets acquired is reflected in retained earnings.
Significant accounting policies The groups and parent companys significant accounting policies are: Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary, joint venture, associate or branch at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
Income statements and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches are translated into sterling at the average rates for the year.
Balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches, including any fair value adjustments and related goodwill, are translated into sterling at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches, less exchange differences arising on related foreign currency financial instruments which hedge the groups net investment in these operations, are taken to other comprehensive income.
On disposal of the net investment, the cumulative exchange difference is reclassified from equity to operating profit.
The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Reporting Standards to deem the cumulative translation difference for all overseas subsidiaries and branches to be zero at 1st April 2004.
Other exchange differences are taken to operating profit.
Revenue Revenue comprises all sales of goods and rendering of services at the fair value of consideration received or receivable after the deduction of any trade discounts and excluding sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it can be measured reliably and the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
With the sale of goods, this occurs: when the goods are despatched or delivered in line with the International Chamber of Commerces International Commercial Terms Incoterms as detailed in the relevant contract: when the goods are made available to the customer and ownership transfers before despatch: or on notification that the goods have been used when they are consignment products located at customers premises.
With the rendering of services, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion as measured by costs incurred to date as a proportion of estimated total costs.
With royalty and licence income, revenue is recognised in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement.
Where royalties or licences are part of a long-term contract with a single overall profit margin, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
143 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accounts Accounting policies for the year ended 31st March 2018 Long-term contracts Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion.
This is measured by contract costs incurred to date as a proportion of estimated total contract costs.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Finance costs and finance income Finance costs that are directly attributable to the construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Other finance costs and finance income are recognised in the income statement in the year incurred.
Grants Grants related to assets are included in deferred income and released to the income statement in equal instalments over the expected useful lives of the related assets.
Grants related to income are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year incurred unless it meets the recognition criteria for capitalisation.
When the recognition criteria have been met, any further development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write-off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its useful life.
Certain freehold buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated using the units of production method as this more closely reflects their expected consumption.
All other assets are depreciated using the straight-line method.
The useful lives vary according to the class of the asset, but are typically: leasehold property 30 years or the life of the lease if shorter : freehold buildings 30 years: and plant and equipment 4 to 10 years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business when the fair value of the consideration exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets acquired including contingent liabilities.
It is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Acquisition-related costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The group and parent company have taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 and, therefore, goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 1st April 2004 is included at the carrying amount at that date less any subsequent impairments.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provisions for impairment.
Customer contracts are amortised when the relevant income stream occurs using either a straight-line method or, where they relate to a long-term contract, a stage of completion method.
All other intangible assets are amortised by using the straight-line method over the useful lives from the time they are first available for use.
The estimated useful lives vary according to the specific asset, but are typically: customer contracts and relationships 1 to 15 years: capitalised computer software 3 to 10 years: patents, trademarks and licences 3 to 20 years: acquired research and technology 4 to 10 years: and capitalised development currently being amortised 3 to 8 years.
Intangible assets which are not yet being amortised are subject to annual impairment reviews.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the parent companys balance sheet at cost less any provisions for impairment.
If a distribution is received from a subsidiary, the investment in that subsidiary is assessed for an indication of impairment.
144 Accounting policies for the year ended 31st March 2018 Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the group.
The assets are included in property, plant and equipment and the capital elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance leases.
The assets are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter.
The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income statement.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and the lease costs are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Precious metal inventories Inventories of gold, silver and platinum group metals are valued according to the source from which the metal is obtained.
Metal which has been purchased and committed to future sales to customers or hedged in metal markets is valued at the price at which it is contractually committed or hedged, adjusted for unexpired contango and backwardation.
Other precious metal inventories owned by the group, which are unhedged, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the weighted average cost formula.
Other inventories Non-precious metal inventories are valued at the lower of cost, including attributable overheads, and net realisable value.
Except where costs are specifically identified, the first-in, first-out cost formula is used to value inventories.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand, including short-term deposits with a maturity date of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
The group and parent company routinely use short-term bank overdraft facilities, which are repayable on demand, as an integral part of their cash management policy and, therefore, cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statements are cash and deposits less bank overdrafts.
Offset arrangements across group businesses have been applied to arrive at the net cash and overdraft figures.
Derivative financial instruments The group and parent company use derivative financial instruments, in particular forward currency contracts and currency swaps, to manage the financial risks associated with their underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
The group and parent company do not undertake any speculative trading activity in derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at their fair value.
Derivative financial instruments may be designated at inception as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges if appropriate.
Derivative financial instruments which are not designated as hedging instruments are classified as held for trading, but are used to manage financial risk.
The vast majority of forward precious metal price contracts are entered into and held for the receipt or delivery of precious metal and, therefore, are not recorded at fair value.
If a forward precious metal price contract will be settled net in cash then it is designated and accounted for as a cash flow hedge.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative financial instruments that are not designated as, or are not determined to be, effective hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement, together with the related changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the designation is revoked.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedges are effective.
Ineffective portions are recognised in the income statement immediately.
If the hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the amount previously recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred out of equity and included in the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, the amount previously recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement in the same period that the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the designation is revoked, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement.
For hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are reclassified from equity to the income statement when the foreign operations are sold or liquidated.
145 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accounts Accounting policies for the year ended 31st March 2018 Other financial instruments All other financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement is as follows: Borrowings are measured at amortised cost unless they are designated as being fair value hedged, in which case they are remeasured for the fair value changes in respect of the hedged risk with these changes recognised in the income statement.
Available-for-sale investments which are investments in equity instruments that have a quoted market price in an active market are fair valued at that price with the gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market are valued at fair value if it can be measured reliably with the gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the fair value cannot be measured reliably, they are measured at cost.
Other available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value with interest calculated using the effective interest method recognised in finance income and the remaining gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income until the investment is derecognised.
At that time, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income will be transferred to the income statement.
All other financial assets and liabilities, including short term receivables and payables, are measured at amortised cost less any impairment provision.
Taxation Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when they relate to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the related tax is also recognised in equity.
Current tax is the amount of income tax expected to be paid in respect of taxable profits using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the balance sheet.
It is provided using the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset or liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate can be made of a probable adverse outcome, for example warranties, environmental claims and restructuring.
Otherwise, material contingent liabilities are disclosed unless the probability of the transfer of economic benefits is remote.
Contingent assets are only disclosed if an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
The parent company considers financial guarantees of its subsidiaries borrowings and precious metal leases to be insurance contracts.
These are treated as contingent liabilities unless it becomes probable that it will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share-based payments and employee share ownership trust ESOT The fair value of shares awarded to employees under the Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan, long term incentive plan and deferred bonus is calculated by adjusting the share price on the date of allocation for the present value of the expected dividends that will not be received.
The resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the relevant performance periods, adjusted to reflect actual and expected levels of vesting where appropriate.
The group and parent company provide finance to the ESOT to purchase company shares in the open market.
Costs of running the ESOT are charged to the income statement.
The cost of shares held by the ESOT is deducted in arriving at equity until they vest unconditionally with employees.
146 Accounting policies for the year ended 31st March 2018 Post-employment benefits The costs of defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit plans, the group and parent company recognise the net assets or liabilities of the plans in their balance sheets.
Assets are measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Liabilities are measured at present value using the projected unit credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The changes in plan assets and liabilities, based on actuarial advice, are recognised as follows: The current service cost is deducted in arriving at operating profit.
The net interest cost, based on the discount rate at the beginning of the year, contributions paid in and the present value of the net defined benefit liabilities during the year, is included in finance costs.
Past service costs and curtailment gains and losses are recognised in operating profit at the earlier of when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs and when any related restructuring costs or termination benefits are recognised.
Gains or losses arising from settlements are included in operating profit when the settlement occurs.
Remeasurements, representing returns on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest, and actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial and demographic assumptions, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Critical accounting policies Certain of the groups and parent companys significant accounting policies are considered to be critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the accounts.
Post-employment benefits The groups and parent companys defined benefit plans are assessed annually by qualified independent actuaries.
The estimate of the liabilities of the plans is based on a number of actuarial assumptions.
There is a range of possible values for each actuarial assumption and the point within that range is estimated to most appropriately reflect the groups and parent companys circumstances.
Small changes in these assumptions can have a significant impact on the estimate of the liabilities of the plans and, therefore, may result in a material change to the groups and parent companys financial position in the year ending 31st March 2019.
Goodwill, other intangible assets and other assets The group and parent company have significant intangible assets from both business acquisitions and investments in new products and technologies.
Some of those acquisitions and investments are at an early stage of commercial development and, therefore, carry a greater risk that they will not be commercially viable.
Goodwill and intangible assets not yet ready for use are not amortised, but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the time they are first ready for use.
Other assets are assessed for impairment when there is a triggering event that provides evidence that an asset may be impaired.
The impairment reviews require the use of estimates of future profit and cash generation based on financial budgets and plans approved by management covering a three-year period and the pre-tax discount rates used in discounting projected cash flows.
The group does not consider that there is a significant risk that changes in goodwill and other intangible assets could result in a material adjustment to its financial position in the year ending 31st March 2019.
Tax provisions Tax provisions are determined based on the tax laws and regulations that apply in each of the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
Tax provisions are recognised where the impact of those laws and regulations is unclear and it is probable that there will be a tax adjustment representing a future outflow of funds to a tax authority or a consequent adjustment to the carrying value of a tax asset.
Provisions are measured using the best estimate of the most likely amount, being the most likely amount in a range of possible outcomes.
The resolution of tax positions taken by the group can take a considerable period of time to conclude and, in some cases, it is difficult to predict the outcome.
Group current income tax liabilities at 31st March 2018 of 149 million 2017: 134 million include tax provisions of 86 million 2017: 89 million and the estimation of the range of possible outcomes is an increase in those liabilities by 61 million 2017: 64 million to a decrease of 50 million 2017: 51 million.
The estimates made reflect where the group: faces routine tax audits or is in ongoing disputes with tax authorities: has identified potential tax exposures relating to transfer pricing: or is contesting the tax deductibility of certain business costs.
The group does not consider that there is a significant risk that changes in tax provisions could result in a material adjustment to its financial position in the year ending 31st March 2019.
147 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accounts Accounting policies for the year ended 31st March 2018 Refining process The groups and parent companys refining businesses process significant quantities of precious metal and there are uncertainties regarding the actual amount of metal in the refining system at any one time.
The groups refining businesses process over four million ounces of platinum group metals per annum with a market value of around 3.4 billion.
The majority of metal processed is owned by customers and the group and parent company must return pre-agreed quantities of refined metal based on assays of starting materials and other contractual arrangements, such as, the timing of the return of metal.
The group and parent company calculate the profits or losses of their refining operations based on estimates, including the extent to which process losses are expected during refining.
The risk of process losses or gains depends on the nature of the starting material being refined, the specific refining processes applied, the efficiency of those processes and the contractual arrangements.
Stock takes are performed to determine the volume and value of metal within the refining system compared with the calculated estimates, with the variance being a profit or a loss.
Stock takes are, therefore, a key control in the assessment of the accuracy of the profit or loss of refining operations.
Whilst refining is a complex, large scale industrial process, the group and parent company have appropriate processes and controls over the movement of material in their refineries and, historically, have not recorded material stock take gains or losses.
During the year ended 31st March 2018, the group and parent company did not perform a full stock take in their UK refineries due to high levels of customer demand and potential palladium shortages in the market.
As a consequence, a stocktake of input materials and finished goods was performed, as in prior years, alongside additional procedures to support the estimates made as part of calculating the value of work in progress.
The group and parent company do not consider that there is a significant risk of a material adjustment to its financial position in the year ending 31st March 2019 in respect of refining process gains or losses.
Sources of estimation uncertainty Determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date requires estimation of the effects of uncertain future events.
In the event that actual outcomes differ from those estimated, there may be an adjustment to the carrying amounts of those assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
The group and parent company have made appropriate estimates and the only significant risks of material adjustments to their financial position during the year ending 31st March 2019 relate to the determination of the discount rate and inflation assumptions underpinning the valuation of the liabilities of the groups and parent companys defined benefit pension plans and, for the group, to the crystallisation of the contingent liability disclosed in note 32.
A description of the discount rate and inflation assumptions, together with sensitivity analysis, is set out in note 17 to the group and parent company accounts.
The group is unable to make a reliable estimate of any possible financial impact of the contingent liability at this stage.
Judgements made in applying accounting policies In the course of preparing the financial statements, no judgements have been made in the process of applying the groups and parent companys accounting policies, other than those involving estimations, that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Adoption of revised standards and interpretations In September 2017, the IFRS Interpretations Committee clarified that finance expenses on income tax balances should be reported within finance costs and certain penalties arising on settlements with tax authorities within administrative expenses.
The group had previously reported finance expenses and penalties on income tax balances as part of income tax expense.
With effect from 1st April 2017, the group has updated its treatment of these balances in accordance with this new guidance.
Comparative information has not been restated on the basis that the impact of the change is not material.
In accordance with amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, the group and parent company have provided reconciliations between the opening and closing balances for assets and liabilities arising from financing activities note 29.
148 Accounting policies for the year ended 31st March 2018 Standards issued but not yet applied Standards effective from 1st April 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will be adopted from 1st April 2018.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for recognition, classification and measurement, a new impairment model for financial assets based on expected credit losses and simplified hedge accounting, replacing the requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The group and parent company have completed their reviews of the financial instruments they hold and the way in which those instruments are used.
They have identified differences in accounting treatment, where applicable, and have updated their hedging documentation.
The review has concluded that the new standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the groups and parent companys equity on transition.
The key impact of adopting IFRS 9 is to change the groups and parent companys financial asset impairment provision processes from the current incurred loss model to a forward looking expected loss approach, resulting in earlier recognition of impairments.
Other less significant differences in the group relate to the reclassification of certain financial assets from being valued at amortised cost to fair value through other comprehensive income.
Changes to the classification and measurement of financial assets are applied retrospectively by adjusting opening retained earnings at 1st April 2018.
The group has chosen not to restate comparative information for prior periods.
The provisional impact of adopting IFRS 9 on the groups equity as at 1st April 2018 is a decrease of less than 5 million.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will be adopted from 1st April 2018, superseding all revenue standards and interpretations in IFRS.
IFRS 15 provides a principles-based approach for revenue recognition and requires that revenue is recognised as the distinct performance obligations promised within the contract are satisfied either at a point in time or over time.
Whilst some timing differences have been identified as a result of allocating revenue to distinct performance obligations or where the criteria set out in IFRS 15 for recognising revenue over time are not met, the group and parent company have completed their reviews of major existing contracts and have concluded that applying IFRS 15 will not have a significant impact on the timing and recognition of revenue once it is applied.
The group has chosen to apply IFRS 15 on a modified retrospective basis, recognising the cumulative effect of initial application as an adjustment to opening retained earnings for contracts which are not completed at the adoption date.
This means that the comparative information continues to be recognised under existing revenue accounting requirements.
The provisional impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the groups equity as at 1st April 2018 is an increase of less than 5 million.
Standards effective from 1st April 2019 IFRS 16 Leases, which replaces IAS 17 Leases, was EU endorsed in October 2017.
Whilst lessor accounting is similar to IAS 17, lessee accounting is significantly different.
Under IFRS 16, the group will recognise on the balance sheet a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for future lease payments in respect of all leases unless the underlying assets are of low value or the lease term is 12 months or less.
In the income statement, rental expense on the impacted leases will be replaced with depreciation on the right-of-use asset and interest expense on the lease liability.
As set out in note 39, the group has operating lease commitments totalling 93 million at 31st March 2018 and, therefore, IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the groups balance sheet.
The implications of the standard are currently under review and the group has not yet determined which transition option will be applied.
As the impact of transition is dependent on the option chosen, the group is unable to quantify the effect at this time.
The group and parent company do not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on their reported results or net assets.
149 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
