Verification of non-financial data The board reviews corporate social responsibility CSR and broader Johnson Matthey appointed Carbon Smart to provide third party sustainability issues as part of its risk management process.
assurance of the companys global reported Scope 1, 2 and 3 All data is reviewed by internal sustainability experts and at greenhouse gas GHG emissions, total energy, total waste solid and appropriate levels of management up to and including the Group hazardous, water consumption and specified health and safety Management Committee.
Health and safety data is reviewed by group indicators for the reporting period 2017 18.
Carbon Smart carried out health and safety experts and as part of a formal group environment, a limited assurance engagement in accordance with the requirements health and safety EHS internal audit programme.
of the ISAE 3000 revised standard including the specificities of Certain human resources data forms part of Johnson Mattheys ISAE 3410 for assuring GHG emissions data, and key health and accounts which are subject to limited audit.
safety definitions from the OHSA Regulations.
Johnson Matthey also uses external specialists to review specific Johnson Mattheys GHG inventory and quantification of sustainability issues.
Over the past year this has included external environmental performance indicators has been completed in audits or reviews of people management systems, health and safety accordance with the WRI WBCSD GHG Corporate Accounting and OHSAS 18001 and environmental management systems such as Reporting Standard revised best practice reporting principles of ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and RC 4001. relevance, completeness, consistency, transparency, accuracy and the In 2018 we commissioned Carbon Smart Ltd to provide external subject matter adheres to the ISAE 3410 principles related to both assurance and commentary on the companys sustainability reporting the quantification of emissions and presentation of disclosures.
of our key performance indicators and data pertaining to our 2017 18 The objective of the engagement was to ensure that the assured environment, health and safety performance.
Carbon Smart have Johnson Matthey values in scope were free of material misstatements subsequently provided the following summary assurance report: to an acceptable, agreed materiality threshold and provide the relevant, material information required by stakeholders for the purpose of decision making.
Based on the assurance procedures followed by Carbon Smart on the described scope of Johnson Mattheys data across the 2017 18 reporting period, we have found no material evidence to suggest that the data is not: prepared in accordance with the WRI WBCSD GHG Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised and OHSA Regulations as relevant: prepared in accordance with Johnson Mattheys relevant internal health and safety and environmental data collection guidelines: materially correct and a fair representation of the companys GHG emissions, specified environmental impacts and health and safety incident rates: worthy of the award of limited assurance.
Carbon Smart are independent of Johnson Matthey and have no business reason for bias in the preparation of this statement: we have complied with the ethical requirements relevant for the performance of the ISAE 3000 engagement.
This conclusion should be read with Carbon Smarts full assurance statement available at matthey.
203 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
