Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Operations Our vision for a cleaner, healthier world demands us to operate our business responsibly and with a relentless focus on eciency and excellence.
This cuts across everything we do: from common systems and core processes to the way we manage and drive the environmental performance of our assets.
Sustainable business goals Low carbon Responsible operations sourcing 3 4 38 Driving responsible and effective operations As a global group, we seek to maximise synergies across our businesses so we put in place standard processes and ways of working where it makes sense for us to do so.
Our focus is end-to-end operational sites can work towards Silver, Gold or In the course of our now completed efficiency: its not cost-cutting and its not Platinum levels of status.
Since 2012, ten-year strategy, Sustainability 2017, we a project.
Through this we are driving over 100 million in savings have been halved our operational carbon footprint sustained improvements across every delivered collectively by sites that have and our use of energy and water per unit aspect of how we run our business, achieved those levels.
These efforts, combined with and therefore the benefits are broader Procurement is a key global activity those in our Manufacturing Excellence than cost.
and by managing it with a strategic and programme, delivered bottom line This approach has two main themes.
category led approach, significant savings of 142 million.
Firstly, were simplifying and automating savings can be achieved.
Professionalising But now we want to go further.
It doesnt deliver procurement within JM not only reduces Building on the impressive achievements monetary savings per se, but it frees up cost, but it also means that we manage of Sustainability 2017, we have set our people to target them against our our suppliers better, which has many ourselves more stringent targets to biggest business opportunities.
additional benefits, including reducing 2025 and are incorporating a stronger Secondly, we are ensuring common supply chain risk.
We purchase state external focus.
standards and ways of working across JM.
of the art equipment which meets In developing our six goals for This will improve our performance by the latest environmental, health and sustainable business to 2025, we defined accelerating the best of JM around the safety standards.
two goals that are linked to our operations, group rapidly.
We have activated a Procurement both at group and site level.
One is our Excellence programme with the goal of goal to reduce our greenhouse gas saving more than 60 million over the emissions by 25% per unit of production Simplifying and automating next three years.
Our annual purchases, output goal 3, an ambition that forms This year we have continued to invest in excluding precious metal and substrate, part of our approach to low carbon upgrading our core IT systems to reduce are about 1.5 billion.
The second is to improve complexity across the group and make are made across 118 sites, historically sustainable business practices in our us more agile and responsive to our with each site accountable, for the most supply chains goal 4. customers.
We are introducing a global part, for its own purchases.
This has, in Three of our four other goals business solution to standardise and the past, limited our ability to consolidate covering health and safety goal 1, simplify business processes, data and our understanding of purchases across employee engagement goal 2 and systems across JM.
The single groupwide the group.
volunteering in the community goal 6 platform supports all our global Over the last year we have begun to are explained in the People section of this operations, giving us a full view of all our move to a global procurement strategy report on pages 48 to 59.
Implementation is on track and have started to capture this data on aims to increase the positive contribution and we will start our roll out during a consistent basis to fully understand of our products to a cleaner, healthier 2018 19.
We expect to be complete by where the procurement opportunity lies.
world, is explained in the Customers end 2021 22.
We have begun to execute against this section of this report on page 35. opportunity and have made excellent Common standards and ways 3 early progress in bringing together our Climate change action of working existing procurement community and in through reducing greenhouse building new capability to ensure that we Group led excellence programmes are gas emissions capture it in full.
We will continue to roll in place to target specific areas where We have set ourselves a new carbon out our global procurement function we see an opportunity to rapidly make intensity goal in which we aim to reduce during 2018 19 to realise savings and efficiency gains by ensuring common our greenhouse gas GHG emissions enhance our supply chain performance.
per unit of production output by 25% A group led approach enables us to deploy sustainable business goal 3.
Monitoring Responsible operations best practice quickly and effectively our emissions as a function of production across our operations.
Our technology is used by customers output, rather than sales, will allow us Manufacturing Excellence, which every day to create products that have to capture any operational efficiency has been in place since 2012, encourages a direct benefit on the environment, improvements more authentically.
The a continuous improvement culture to preventing millions of tonnes of pollutants new carbon intensity goal also reflects the enhance the efficiency and long term from entering the atmosphere.
We also type that companies are setting in order profitability of our manufacturing have a responsibility to ensure the way we to qualify as a Science Based Target using operations.
Progress is measured against make these technologies is responsible the Sectoral Decarbonisation Approach.
The highest performing and environmentally conscious too.
39 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Our ambitious target was based on an Other examples of our work to A reliable supply of fresh water is assessment of potential installations and reduce energy use and emissions include required by all our manufacturing sites energy procurement opportunities across our platinum group metal fabricated and, often in considerably greater our sites and a consideration of the products plant in Royston, UK, where quantities, by our strategic suppliers.
targets being set by peer companies.
we have made a 655 MWh reduction in To examine our exposure, we periodically We are including Scope 1 and 2 energy use.
This was achieved through undertake water stress surveys of our direct and indirect emissions in our a comprehensive package of measures business.
We also report our principal goal, which covers our entire use of fossil including installing solar photovoltaic water risk publicly through the annual fuels, electricity from all sources and panels, replacing a furnace and upgrading CDP Water survey.
emissions of all major GHGs.
To improve the lighting and pump scheduling.
We our data collection and help drive are also making good use of solar energy matthey.
com cdp-water improvements, we have installed a at five sites, while at our Royston, UK site groupwide environmental data reporting we are linking solar panels to our air In 2016 17 we conducted a survey tool to our sustainability management conditioning systems to reduce energy using the World Business Council for platform, Enablon.
One of our sites has a wind Sustainable Development WBCSD operational from 1st April 2018 and turbine and we have also refurbished Global Water Tool version 1.3.
Of the enables us to increase the frequency office buildings increasing insulation, 66 principal sites surveyed, 15 were of our internal reporting.
installing LED lighting and replacing the identified as being in regions of extreme In recent years, we have increased windows to improve working conditions water stress.
Our water usage in most our use of renewable energy on our whilst saving energy.
of these locations is very low.
For example, at our pgm refinery there are four where we are close to and chemicals plant at West Deptford, Page 45: More on our greenhouse using the locally available freshwater New Jersey, USA, we source 17% of our gas performance supply per capita: Taloja, India: Yantai, electricity from an adjacent photovoltaic China: New Mexico, USA: Brimsdown, plant, saving 861 tonnes of GHG emissions UK.
We are using the data from the in 2017 18.
Also in the US, all our sites Understanding potential impacts survey to prioritise water conservation in the Philadelphia region will be of climate change on our business projects for the sites that are at the purchasing zero carbon electricity from greatest risk of an interruption to supply.
We disclose our environment, social and grid suppliers from April 2018: this is Our facility in Taloja, India was governance ESG performance through expected to reduce the groups carbon assessed by the WBCSD Water Tool the CDP climate change programme, footprint by 7% over the next year.
And survey to be our highest water stressed which looks at risks and opportunities of five of our UK sites Royston, Brimsdown, manufacturing plant.
To meet the ever climate from the worlds largest companies Sonning, Swindon and Edinburgh have increasing demands of the local waste on behalf of institutional investors.
been purchasing renewable electricity water treatment facility that treats all wind power from the National Grid waste water on the industrial park in since April 2016, making CO equivalent matthey.
com cpd-investor 2 which our facility is located, we are in emissions savings of over 40,000 tonnes in the early stages of installing a water 2017 18.
This has been achieved through We also participate in benchmarking treatment recycling plant with the an agreement with rsted, who supply studies to deepen our knowledge and aim of making the plant zero liquid Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin compare our progress against our peers.
REGO certified wind power from the West A changing global climate brings with Our largest risk to water is in our of Duddon Sands Offshore Wind Farm near it a number of risks and opportunities for supply chain, where we are exposed to Blackpool and the London Array Offshore Johnson Matthey, which we continually industries that are significant water users, Windfarm in the River Thames estuary.
consider and review annually as part of such as mining and agriculture.
The next In Skopje, Macedonia, our site our CDP disclosure.
The most significant step is to gather the exact locations of our installed a new waste water treatment of these continue to be environmental strategic suppliers facilities and evaluate plant in 2017.
The factory first opened in legislation and water availability.
November 2013 and had been growing.
Johnson Matthey is also a signatory Consequently, the previous waste water of LAppel fide Paris the Paris Pledge for 4 Responsible sourcing treatment plant was unable to meet the Action, committing us to play our part demands of the site in terms of quantity The second part of our operational in delivering the agreements ambition to and type of waste water handled it sustainable business goals concerns limit global temperature rise to 2C.
Our could only treat sanitary water.
Under goal 4, sustainable business goal 3 supports this.
3 the site having to send over 300 m of we aim to improve sustainable business effluent to neighbouring Serbia every practices in our supply chains.
Through Water risk month a distance of 450 km.
collaboration, we will ensure full Water is an essential resource.
The World The Skopje site worked with waste compliance with our minimum standards Resource Institute WRI reported in water specialist EnviroChemie to create from strategic Tier 1 suppliers.
June 2016 that in the industrialised a treatment facility specific to the sites This due diligence is not new to us world, fresh water is becoming scarcer needs.
In the first year of operation but it is the first time we have framed it due to increased demand and higher July 2017 to March 2018, the new plant as a formal sustainability goal, with clear pollution levels.
Availability is often has achieved 162 tonnes of CO savings 2 measures to show our progress.
Our goal transient, dependent on changing and cost savings of over 900,000. is to achieve compliance among 100% weather patterns.
of our Tier 1 strategic suppliers by 2025.
40 Where we source strategic raw materials We procure goods and services globally and our supply chains are multi-tiered.
Sourcing of strategic materials is a principal risk see page 79 and monitoring and understanding the risk is challenging but essential.
Some of our strategic raw materials are available from only a limited number of countries.
The countries we rely on for these materials are highlighted in the map below.
Precious metals Narcotic raw materials agricultural feedstocks Chemical intermediates Base metals and compounds Zeolites Rare earth metals Ceramic supports and substrates Several factors have led us to select self-assessments.
These assessments We support the principles set out in responsible sourcing as a goal.
Regulation represent approximately 30% of JMs the UN Universal Declaration of Human of supply chains is increasing, for example direct materials spend with suppliers.
Rights and the International Labour in the areas of conflict minerals and The table below represents the responses Organisation Core Conventions, including modern slavery.
And we are aware that from JMs sectors.
We have not identified the conventions on child labour, forced some of our suppliers are located in high any incidences of child labour or forced labour, non-discrimination, freedom of risk countries.
We launched our Supplier labour in our value chain.
Code of Conduct in September 2017: In 2017 18, 26 strategic Tier 1 We also support the principles it is available on our website in English, supplier assessments were undertaken endorsed under the UN Global Compact German, Japanese, Polish and Mandarin.
to check compliance against the JM and the UN Guiding Principles on We will report annually on the numbers Supplier Code of Conduct.
This represents Business and Human Rights the Ruggie of strategic Tier 1 suppliers assessed and approximately 11% of suppliers classified Principles.
We are working to embed of those, how many meet our responsible in this way.
Of those assessed, 73% were them throughout our operations and supplier compliance criteria.
We have in compliance with the expectations of whenever we enter into business in a new put in place a Supplier Sustainable JMs code.
territory, make an acquisition or enter a Development Programme SSDP.
There were no human business tool enables us to classify risk in rights grievance reports made against Modern slavery our suppliers, determine what level of due Johnson Matthey during the year.
Research from the Walk Free Foundation diligence is required, identify corrective The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 shows that over 40 million people actions and follow up on progress.
We will requires UK listed companies to make an worldwide are trapped in some form of track the number of suppliers that have annual statement describing the steps modern slavery, including forced labour.
signed up to the code and the number they have taken during the year to ensure This is an important social issue and JM assessed during the last three years.
that slavery and human trafficking are not is proactively taking steps to ensure high In 2017 18, 97 supplier sustainability taking place, either in their businesses or ethical standards throughout our value assessments were undertaken across our their supply chains.
chain, including through our sustainable sectors.
These comprised formal on-site Our annual statement is posted on business goal 4 on responsible sourcing.
audits, desktop assessments and supplier our website and details the steps we are taking.
They include our policies and Number of new Total number of codes including our code of ethics and Sustainable business Number of suppliers non-conformances non-conformances confidential speak up line, details of topic of concern assessed for this concern identified in 2017 18 open at 31st March 2018 our supply chain governance team and Child labour 97 the Supplier Sustainable Development Forced labour 97 Programme.
In order to improve Wages and working hours 97 3 3 standards in our supply chains, in Discrimination 97 Freedom of association 82 2017 18, we have undertaken a risk Health and safety 97 45 25 mapping exercise and identified suppliers Environmental 82 5 2 where we need to focus our attention.
Other anti-bribery and corruption, supply chain standards 35 5 2 matthey.
com modern-slavery 41 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report The criteria considered in the assessment A number of voluntary responsible supply The catalyst is incorporated into the included industries that are considered chain schemes for cobalt are springing catalytic converter in the exhaust system high risk, country corruption risk and up but they are not yet harmonised or of a car which is bought by the end user country modern slavery risk.
By universally applied: we are currently who drives it.
We do not manufacture the undertaking this due diligence, we can evaluating participating actively in the car, but we are concerned with the whole understand and address potential Responsible Cobalt Initiative.
life of the catalyst until the end of its life, impacts on human rights and ensure and beyond, e. g. to recovery of that there is no enslaved labour within components for subsequent reuse.
com conflict-minerals our supply chains.
This whole life responsibility is what we call product lifecycle management, also known as product stewardship.
Conflict minerals The pgm supply chain We set ourselves high standards: our The term conflict minerals refers to tin, One example where we are taking a customers want to see evidence that we tungsten, tantalum and gold which proactive approach is in the platinum understand any hazards inherent in our originated from the Democratic Republic group metal pgm supply chain.
We products and that, through understanding of Congo DRC and surrounding have worked closely with some of our their uses, we can, in turn, help them countries, in particular from areas of automotive customers to address manage any consequent risks.
Equally, military conflict where most mining is concerns that they raised relating to our external stakeholders want assurance artisanal and linked to serious human the pgm supply chain in South Africa.
that the potential impacts on the rights abuses.
A collaborative visit facilitated by JM, environment, our employees and We have established a process for resulted in direct dialogue between the downstream users are well managed.
due diligence of all conflict minerals pgm mining companies, JM and these Some stakeholders are starting to based on the Organisation for Economic key customers.
This allowed our customers demand that chemical companies like Co-operation and Development OECD to see and hear first hand the challenges ourselves move towards safer chemistries.
Guidelines which includes keeping records of operating within that industry and in Internally, our product lifecycle that enable us to track the suppliers of the complex South African economic, management supports our value of all the raw materials we use and identify social and political context.
A clear action protecting people and the planet.
More which smelter the conflict minerals came plan has been agreed.
pragmatically, it is essential to our from.
We are working towards being In addition, we have worked with business that we identify and mitigate compliant with the new European Union peer pgm fabricator companies to any risk to our portfolio.
Our social Conflict mineral regulation, which was develop a single consistent due diligence licence to operate depends on our enacted in July 2017, ahead of the approach to be taken by all when compliance with safety regulations and, January 2021 deadline.
assessing pgm supply from South Africa.
of powerful importance, our voluntary Of the smelters identified throughout This fabricator working group, liaising stewardship of our products all the way all tiers of our supply chain, 89% are listed through the International Platinum down the value chain.
as conformant with the Responsible Group Metals Association IPA, is It is important we design in green Minerals Assurance Process RMAP establishing a systemic one mine, one chemistries at the start of a products assessment protocols on the RMI audit approach from late 2018.
Recently we have developed a Responsible Minerals Initiative database ensure supply chain partners are assessed sustainability checklist as part of our and we expect this to increase as more and audited in a more consistent, efficient New Product Introduction NPI process.
refiners and smelters join the programme and effective manner.
Ultimately, this The checklist contains a series of questions and become RMAP-conformant.
We use will lead to improvements in standards about health and safety, environmental, our in-house database to respond to of business conduct throughout the social and financial issues which must customer requests for information on value chain.
be answered before the project can conflict minerals in our products and to Our business is highly diverse, both in progress to the next stage of the NPI provide them with a tailored answer to the range of our manufactured products process.
The checklist is now being any query they have.
This year we have and the markets we serve.
Our supply evaluated by teams in JMs sectors.
responded to around 70 customer chains are correspondingly complex requests for information.
and we are aware that we still have a Our management systems We are also extending our minerals significant amount of work to do in supply chain due diligence activity to improving sustainable business practices We implement our product lifecycle include cobalt.
Cobalt is used in a range in those supply chains.
Our supply chain management through well established of applications from battery technology, governance team, which is integrated systems to ensure the sound industrial catalyst to health care.
into our Procurement Excellence management of our products throughout At present the Democratic Republic programme, is driving this forward.
We have groupwide of the Congo DRC holds about 50% policies and guidance which align our of the global reserves of cobalt.
approach with the global framework Product lifecycle management Although there are some mining set by the Strategic Approach to The products we sell to our customers companies which are operating ethically International Chemicals Management often form an important part of the end in the country, there is a significant SAICM to promote chemical safety product supplied to the user.
For example, amount of illegal artisanal mining in around the world.
The Strategic we supply catalytic coated substrate uncontrolled conditions leading to a Approach, begun in 2006, is hosted by as a component for engine emission number of human rights concerns.
control systems for car manufacturers.
42 We have procedures in place at The development work took time Looking ahead to the next year, we group and sector level to identify and money, but the project to move to a plan to improve our audit programme for regulatory obligations, both future and safer process gained financial support product lifecycle management.
At present, current, and create the documentation from the Finnish authorities.
Customers it forms part of the EHS audits of our sites.
Our were fully informed of the rationale for We are now reviewing how we manage internal committees assess hazard and the change: we retained their orders and our product lifecycle work across the exposure data to identify opportunities they in turn retained theirs.
group and will embed our findings in for risk reduction in our operations.
a more targeted audit programme on Potential new products are assessed at an this specific issue.
This will enable us Pgm user guide early stage of their development against to be proactive across all our sites and During the year JM provided significant safety and regulatory criteria, with higher businesses and to provide more input into a comprehensive user hazard products being put through more consistent information to our customers.
Safe Use of Platinum detailed assessments.
Finally, business And in the medium term, we recognise Group Metals in the Workplace was compliance with lifecycle management that we have more work to do on end of published by the IPA in December 2017 policies forms part of our environment, life solutions for our products, with, and is intended to advance awareness health and safety EHS audit.
among other things, improved recycling.
of the hazards and risks associated with As the UK prepares to leave the EU, occupational exposure to pgms and how we have made plans for Brexit and are in Our three areas of focus to manage them effectively.
This is an a good position to manage the effects on As part of our work on product lifecycle important and directly relevant piece of our European operations.
We are actively management, we have three current work, as many JM sites handle pgms, and supporting the UK government in areas of focus.
The first is active horizon one of the eight occupational illnesses understanding the potential impact of scanning which identifies proposed reported in 2017 18 related to pgm the various options being considered.
regulatory developments that could exposure.
The user guide provides practical impact our sites and products and the advice on workplace monitoring, the Product lifecycle performance raw materials we use.
Linked to this is our medical surveillance of workers, control second area of focus: early identification measures, training and regulatory controls.
We made good progress during 2017 18. of new regulatory pressures for our It is available on the IPA website and we We completed our 1 to 100 tonne per customers that our existing or new have advised our sites to consider the annum substance registrations for our technologies may be able to overcome.
new guidance in their pgm management operations in the EU in good time for the Our third area of focus is high programmes, subject to local law.
May 2018 deadline under the REACH hazard substances chemicals with The IPA guide is the most visible of requirements the European Regulation significant potential to harm human our recent efforts in this area, but we on the registration, evaluation, health or the environment and how we continue to work with peer companies authorisation and restriction of ensure appropriate investment in in trade associations and consortia to chemicals.
Work is also progressing on researching less hazardous alternatives.
develop best practice on stewardship.
preparing registrations for a small On the basis of elevated concern on a number of priority chemicals in South substances hazards, regulators may Korea.
In the US, the US Toxic Substances Priority substance management require companies to generate extensive Control Act TSCA was recently subject We have set up a committee to review data packages to underpin detailed risk to a major update and we have responded certain high hazard substances of relevance assessments.
If a true risk is identified to the resetting of the TSCA Inventory to JM in order to ensure there is appropriate they could take action that effectively per the deadlines.
recognition of the risks from developing eliminates use of the substances in that We use a systematic product new products using these substances.
All of our businesses could be responsibility reporting scheme to The PARS Prior Approval Required affected by these changes and we follow monitor the performance of our Substances Committee decides on developments closely.
operations and maintain surveillance of whether the risks i. e. EHS, sustainability, Our policies, especially on NPI, the companys products and services.
financial, reputational are sufficiently emphasise the expectation that we In 2017 18, there were no high that a senior leader is required to actively investigate the availability of notifications of significant end user issue a time-limited approval to use the safer alternatives to our use of high health effects involving our products.
For example, our We did not identify any non-compliance has reviewed its first tranche of substances Finnish business identified a risk to its with regulations or voluntary codes and has concluded that a small number of portfolio as a critical component of its concerning health and safety impacts relevant substances either face regulatory resin bead manufacturing process would of products and services or product pressures of sufficient magnitude in the face severe restriction in Europe due to and service information, labelling and foreseeable future, or are sufficiently it being considered a substance of very marketing communications.
hazardous that they should be PARS listed.
Unlike our key Although focused on NPI, existing uses of competitors, rather than apply for Policy on animal testing: a PARS substance will consequently face authorisation to continue use of this matthey.
hazardous substance, which would be an We use or manufacture only a very expensive and time consuming process 1 limited number of substances considered e. g. SVHCs under REACH, RoHS or California Prop 65 with an uncertain and time-limited 1 2 listed substances.
regulated, or of international concern.
authorisation outcome, we decided to 2 As a proportion of our portfolio, e. g. controlled by the Montreal Protocol, Stockholm alter our manufacturing process.
and Rotterdam Conventions, GHS category 1A 1B approximately 5% of products consist of, carcinogens, mutagens or reprotoxins, etc.
or use in their production, such substances.
43 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
