N O T I C E O F A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and third Annual Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of General Meeting of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc will relevant securities Special Resolution be held at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on 12.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, Thursday, 2nd May 2019 at 2.30 p. m. for the following purposes: the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570 and 573 of the Act to 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the Auditors Report for the year ended 31st December the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by 2018.
Resolution 11 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate year ended 31st December 2018. nominal amount of 1,088,011, representing approximately 4.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of 10% of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date of 4.0 pence per share.
the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry 5.
To reappoint Dr Kevin Carter as a Director of the Company.
of the general authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, 6.
To reappoint Simon Bragg as a Director of the Company.
save that the Company may before such expiry make 7.
To reappoint Sir Alan Collins as a Director of the Company.
offers, or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the 8.
To reappoint Nadia Manzoor as a Director of the Company.
Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in 9.
To reappoint Robert Talbut as a Director of the Company.
pursuant of such offers, or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine Deloitte LLPs Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special remuneration.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter Special Business appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with To consider the following resolutions: Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution the Act of its issued shares in the capital of the Company 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby ordinary shares.
generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT any authorities previously granted to the Directors, i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the to be purchased shall be that number of shares Act to exercise all the powers for the Company to allot which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys issued relevant securities within the meaning of Section 551 of share capital as at the date of the passing of this the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,088,011, resolution: representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the shall be the nominal value of the share: conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share to be held in 2020 unless renewed at a general meeting shall be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% prior to such time, save that the Company may before such of the average of the middle market quotations for expiry make offers, agreements or arrangements which a share taken from and calculated by reference to would or might require relevant securities to be allotted the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company five business days immediately preceding the day on may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers, which the share is contracted to be purchased: or agreements or arrangements as if the authority conferred b the price of the last independent trade: or c the hereby had not expired.
highest current independent bid: 8 2 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 N O T I C E O F A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market Notes for cash or prices below the prevailing net asset These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse value per share as determined by the Directors : of the proxy form.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint 1st October 2020 unless the authority is renewed at another person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2020 or at meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to any other general meeting prior to such time: and the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the vi the Company may make or contract to purchase rights attaching to different shares held by him.
shares under the authority hereby conferred prior 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must to the expiry of such authority and may make attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chair, a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract another director of the Company or another person who has agreed to notwithstanding such expiry.
Details of how to appoint the Chair or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in Investment Policy Ordinary Resolution the notes to the proxy form.
If the voting box on the proxy form is left 14.
THAT the Investment Policy as set out in the Appendix to blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements for how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or the year ended 31st December 2018 and produced to the proxies does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting meeting, be and is hereby approved in substitution for the in person.
Companys existing Investment Policy with effect from 1st June 2019.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments By order of the Board see above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after JPMorgan Funds Limited, the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid Secretary separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same 28th March 2019 share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint individuals to 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons act as its representatives and to vote in person at the meeting who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting members resolutions or members matters of business received by AGM : or b any circumstances connected with auditor of the the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM, which the Companys website www.
members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment Companys auditor no later than the time it makes its statement are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required to excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the AGM.
No publish on its website pursuant to this right.
Director has any contract of service with the Company.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member than those expressly stated.
attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it is 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID information.
and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers 10.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting Direction threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members Form of Proxy at www.
Full instructions are given on intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: both websites.
and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting 16.
As at20th March 2019 being the latest business day prior to the any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be publication of this Report, the Companys issued share capital consists included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be of 217,602,208 shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless: a in the voting rights in the Company are 217,602,208. case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys Electronic appointment CREST members constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must be received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
