N O T E S T O T H E F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2018 1.
Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments at fair value, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts the SORP issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014 and updated in February 2018.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The disclosures on going concern on page 39 form part of these financial statements.
The policies applied in these financial statements are consistent with those applied in the preceding year.
b Valuation of investments The Company has chosen to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in respect of financial instruments.
The Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of income and capital growth.
The portfolio of financial assets is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented investment strategy and information is provided internally on that basis to the Companys Board of Directors.
Accordingly, upon initial recognition the investments are designated by the Company as held at fair value through profit or loss.
They are included initially at fair value which is taken to be their cost, excluding expenses incidental to purchases which are written off to capital at the time of acquisition.
Subsequently the investments are valued at fair value, which are quoted bid prices for investments traded in active markets.
For investments which are not traded in active markets, unlisted and restricted investments, the Board takes into account the latest traded prices, other observable market data and asset values based on the latest management accounts.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
c Accounting for reserves Gains and losses on sales of investments including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, realised exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents, realised gains and losses on foreign currency contracts, any performance fee realised, management fee and finance costs allocated to capital and any other capital charges, are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and dealt with in capital reserves within Gains and losses on sales of investments.
Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, unrealised gains and losses on forward foreign currency contracts and any performance fee provision, are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and dealt with in capital reserves within Investment holding gains and losses.
d Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are included in revenue on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of the Board, the dividend is capital in nature, in which case it is included in capital.
Overseas dividends are included gross of any withholding tax.
Special dividends are looked at individually to ascertain the reason behind the payment.
This will determine whether they are treated as revenue or capital.
Where the Company has elected to receive scrip dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in revenue.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital.
Interest receivable from debt securities together with any premiums or discounts on purchase are allocated to revenue on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective interest rate of those securities.
Deposit interest receivable is taken to revenue on an accruals basis.
6 0 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 N O T E S T O T H E F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S e Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are allocated wholly to the revenue with the following exceptions: any performance fee is allocated 100% to capital.
the management fee is allocated 20% to revenue and 80% to capital, in line with the Boards expected long term split of revenue and capital return from the Companys investment portfolio.
expenses incidental to the purchase and sale of an investment are charged to capital.
These expenses are commonly referred to as transaction costs and comprise brokerage commission and stamp duty.
Details of transaction costs are given in note 11. f Finance costs Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Finance costs are allocated 20% to revenue and 80% to capital, in line with the Boards expected long term split of revenue and capital return from the Companys investment portfolio.
g Financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents may comprise cash including demand deposits which are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Liquidity funds are considered cash equivalents as they are held for cash management purposes as an alternative to cash.
Forward foreign currency contracts are included in the Statement of Financial Position as derivative financial instruments and are carried at fair value, which is the cost of closing out those contracts.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as capital.
Bank loans and debentures are classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
They are initially measured at proceeds net of direct issue costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Interest payable on bank loans is accounted for on an accruals basis in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The amortisation of direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Statement of Comprehensive Income using the effective interest method.
Other debtors and creditors do not carry any interest, are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at nominal value, with debtors reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
h Taxation Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid or recovered.
Deferred tax is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable timing differences but deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that taxable profits will be available against which those timing differences can be utilised.
Tax relief is allocated to expenses charged to capital on the marginal basis.
On this basis, if taxable income is capable of being entirely offset by revenue expenses, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital column.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rate which is expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and is measured on an undiscounted basis.
i Value Added Tax VAT Expenses are disclosed inclusive of the related irrecoverable VAT.
Recoverable VAT is calculated using the partial exemption method based on the proportion of zero rated supplies to total supplies.
