Disclosures regarding financial instruments measured at fair value The Companys financial instruments within the scope of FRS 102 that are held at fair value comprise its investment portfolio.
The investments are categorised into a hierarchy consisting of the following three levels: 1 The unadjusted quoted price in an active market for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price for an identical asset in an active market.
Quoted in an active market in this context means quoted prices are readily and regularly available and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted price is usually the current bid price.
2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable ie: developed using market data for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly When quoted prices are unavailable, the price of a recent transaction for an identical asset provides evidence of fair value as long as there has not been a significant change in economic circumstances or a significant lapse of time since the transaction took place.
If the entity can demonstrate that the last transaction price is not a good estimate of fair value e. g. because it reflects the amount that an entity would receive or pay in a forced transaction, involuntary liquidation or distress sale, that price is adjusted.
3 Inputs are unobservable ie: for which market data is unavailable for the asset or liability If the market for the asset is not active and recent transactions of an identical asset on their own are not a good estimate of fair value, an entity estimates the fair value by using a valuation technique.
The objective of using a valuation technique is to estimate what the transaction price would have been on the measurement date in an arms length exchange motivated by normal business considerations.
Categorisation within the hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the relevant asset.
Details of the valuation techniques used by the Company are given in note 1 b on page 54.
The following table sets out the fair value measurements using the FRS 102 hierarchy at 30th June.
2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 000 000 000 000 Level 1 1,189,079 1,109,292 There were no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 during the year 2017: same.
Financial instruments exposure to risk and risk management policies As an investment trust, the Company invests in equities for the long term so as to secure its investment objective stated on the Features page.
In pursuing this objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of financial risks that could result in a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction in the profits available for dividends.
These financial risks include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Directors policy for managing these risks is set out below.
The Company Secretary, in close cooperation with the Board and the Manager, coordinates the Companys risk management policy.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing the risks and the methods used to measure the risks that are set out below, have not changed from those applying in the comparative year.
