Emerging Markets AR p40-41 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 40 Statement of Directors Responsibilities S Emerging Markets AR p40-41 11 10 2018 12:22 Page 41 S T A T E M E N T O F D I R E C T O R S R E S P O N S I B I L I T I E S The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report of the Manager.
The work carried out by the auditors does not and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this and regulation.
website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the Annual Report since they Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial were initially presented on the website.
The Annual Report is statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors prepared in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United legislation in other jurisdictions.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report Ireland and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors and Directors Remuneration Report that comply with the law and must not approve the financial statements unless they are those regulations.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: period.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are the Companys financial statements, which have been required to: prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting consistently: Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and Standards, comprising FRS 102, have been followed, subject applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, to any material departures disclosed and explained in the liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and financial statements: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are development and performance of the business and the reasonable and prudent: and position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken continue in business.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time For and on behalf of the Board the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Sarah Arkle that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Chairman Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also 11th October 2018 responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by the Manager is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility S T A T E M E N T O F D I R E C T O R S R E S P O N S I B I L I T I E S | 4 1
