Emerging Markets AR p74-80 11 10 2018 12:21 Page 75 N O T I C E O F A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G Notice is hereby given that the twenty seventh Annual General allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of Meeting of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc will the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by be held at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Resolution 10 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Thursday, 22nd November 2018 at 3.00 p. m. for the following Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such purposes: allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and nominal amount of 1,545,191 representing approximately the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2018.
5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of 2.
To approve the Companys Remuneration policy.
the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the of the general authority conferred by Resolution 10 above, year ended 30th June 2018. save that the Company may before such expiry make offers 4.
To approve a final dividend of 12.5p per share.
or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the 5.
To reappoint Sarah Arkle as a Director of the Company.
Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in 6.
To reappoint Richard Laing as a Director of the Company.
pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To reappoint Ruary Neill as a Director of the Company.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special 8.
To reappoint Andrew Page as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint  LLP as Auditors to 12.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with their remuneration.
Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Special Business Ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the To consider the following resolutions: Directors may from time to time determine.
PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution 10.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby i the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of authorised to be purchased shall be 18,529,940, or if less, any authorities previously granted to the Directors, that number of Ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% of pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the the issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of Resolution: the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, share shall be 25 pence: shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,545,191, representing approximately iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at share shall be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% the date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this of the average of the middle market quotations for an authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual Ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019 unless the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company may before such expiry make offers or the Ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: or b the agreements which would or might require shares to be price of the last independent trade: or c the highest allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and so current independent bid: that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and iv any purchase of Ordinary shares will be made in the market grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Ordinary share as determined by the Directors : Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 21st May relevant securities Special Resolution 2020 unless the authority is renewed at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2018 or at any other general 11.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 10 set out above, meeting prior to such time: and the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Sections 570 to 573 of the Act to S H A R E H O L D E R I N F O R M A T I O N | 7 5 Emerging Markets AR p74-80 11 10 2018 12:21 Page 76 N O T I C E O F A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Notes shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse expiry of such authority which contract will or may be of the proxy form.
executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint and may make a purchase of Ordinary shares pursuant to another person s who need not be a member of the Company to any such contract.
exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the By order of the Board rights attaching to different shares held by him.
Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must JPMorgan Funds Limited, attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Company Secretary Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the 18th October 2018 Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form no later than 3.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting i. e. excluding weekends and bank holidays.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting or adjourned Meeting.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s to 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstances members resolutions or members matters of business received by connected with Auditors of the Company ceasing to hold office since the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the the previous AGM, which the members propose to raise at the Companys website www.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later than the time it share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public been required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company the Company.
must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it is Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the than those expressly stated.
Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting information.
Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting Direction notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting Form of Proxy at www.
Full instructions are given on any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be both websites.
included in the business at the Meeting.
As at 10th October 2018 being the latest business day prior to the moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless: a in the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether of 132,363,525 Ordinary shares of which 8,748,179 shares are held in by reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys Treasury, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is the Company are 123,615,346. frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which Electronic appointment CREST members notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the be received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included procedures described in the CREST Manual.
See further in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out instructions on the proxy form.
the grounds for the request.
