Accounting policies continued j Dividends payable Dividends are included in the financial statements in the year in which they are approved by shareholders.
k Repurchase of shares for cancellation The cost of repurchasing ordinary shares including the related stamp duty and transactions costs is charged to the capital reserves and dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
The nominal value of ordinary share capital repurchased and cancelled is transferred out of Called up share capital and into Capital redemption reserve.
l Repurchase of shares to hold in Treasury The cost of repurchasing shares into Treasury, including the related stamp duty and transaction costs, is charged to the Gains and losses on sales of investments and dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Where shares held in Treasury are subsequently cancelled, the nominal value of those shares is transferred out of Called up share capital and into the Capital redemption reserve.
Should shares held in Treasury be reissued, the sales proceeds will be treated as a realised capital profit up to the amount of the purchase price of those shares and will be transferred to capital reserves.
The excess of the sales proceeds over the purchase price will be transferred to Share premium.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of the Companys financial statements on occasion requires the Board to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the primary financial statements and the accompanying disclosures.
These assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in the current and future periods, depending on circumstance.
The Directors do not believe that any significant accounting judgements or estimates have been applied to this set of financial statements, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 2018 2017 000 000 Gains from investments held at fair value through profit or loss based on historic cost 22,844 3,435 Amounts recognised in investment holding gains and losses in the previous year in respect of investments sold during the year 29,235 2,097 Losses gains on sales of investments based on the carrying value at the previous balance sheet date 6,391 1,338 Net movement in investment holding gains and losses 90,298 203,100 Other capital charges 21 6 Total capital gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 83,886 204,432 5 6 | J P M O R G A N E M E R G I N G M A R K E T S I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 F
