Statement of Directors Responsibilities S T A T E M E N T O F D I R E C T O R S R E S P O N S I B I L I T I E S The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Manager is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility regulations.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors any changes that have occurred to the accounts since they were have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance initially presented on the website.
The accounts are prepared in with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from legislation United Kingdom Accounting Standards including FRS 102 The in other jurisdictions.
Financial Reporting Standards applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and applicable laws.
Under company law the Directors Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also must not approve the financial statements unless they are responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Strategic Report, satisfied that, taken as a whole, the annual report and financial Statement of Corporate Governance and Directors Remuneration statements are fair, balanced and understandable, provide the Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on position and performance, business model and strategy and that page 24, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the the financial statements, which have been prepared in Company and of the total return or loss of the Company for that accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, and period.
In order to provide these confirmations, and in preparing applicable law, United Kingdom Generally Accepted these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Accounting Practice give a true and fair view of the assets, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them liabilities, financial position and net return or loss of the consistently: Company: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development reasonable and prudent: and performance of the business and the position of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Company, together with a description of the principal risks followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and and uncertainties that the Company faces.
explained in the financial statements: and The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the annual report and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will understandable and provide the information necessary for continue in business: shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy and that they give a true and fair and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the total return The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting or loss of the Company for that period.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to For and on behalf of the Board ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Andrew Fleming Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Chairman the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 12th November 2018 prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager.
