I N F O R M A T I O N A B O U T T H E C O M P A N Y FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial year end 30th September Final results announced November Half year end 31st March Half year results announced May June Dividend on ordinary shares paid December Annual General Meeting December History Depositary The Company was formed in 1927 as The Capital & National Trust Limited.
It was The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited a general investment trust until 1982, when its shareholders approved a change of 1 Canada Square name to The Fleming Japanese Investment Trust plc and the adoption of a policy of London E14 5AL specialising in investment in Japan.
The Company adopted its current name in The Depositary has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the Companys December 2006.
Constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
Company Numbers Registrars Company registration number: 223583 Equiniti Limited London Stock Exchange number: 0174002 Reference 1090 ISIN: GB0001740025 Aspect House Bloomberg code: JFJ LN Spencer Road Lancing Market Information West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone number: 0371 384 2328 The Companys unaudited net asset value NAV is published daily via the London Stock Exchange.
Lines open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
Calls to the helpline will cost no more than a national rate call to a 01 or 02 number.
Callers from overseas The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The market price should dial 44 121 415 0225. is shown daily in the Financial Times, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman and on the Companys website at www.
co. uk, where the Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding share certificates or share price is updated every fifteen minutes during trading hours.
dividend cheques should be made in writing to the Registrar quoting reference 1090.
Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their holdings on the Website internet by visiting www.
co. uk Independent Auditors The Companys website can be found at www.
co. uk and includes  LLP useful information about the Company, such as daily prices, factsheets and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors current and historic half year and annual reports.
7 More London Riverside London SE1 2RT Share Transactions The Companys shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker or Brokers professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
They may also be purchased and held through the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, J. P. Morgan ISA and Canaccord Genuity J. P. Morgan Junior ISA.
These products are all available on the online service 88 Wood Street at jpmorgan.
co. uk online London EC2V 7QR Savings Product Administrators Manager and Company Secretary For queries on the J. P. Morgan Investment Account and J. P. Morgan ISA, JPMorgan Funds Limited see contact details on the back cover of this report.
Companys Registered Office FCA Regulation of Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments 60 Victoria Embankment The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its shares can be London EC4Y 0JP recommended by Independent Financial Advisers to ordinary retail investors Telephone: 020 7742 4000 in accordance with the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA in relation For company secretarial and administrative matters, please contact to non-mainstream investment products and intends to continue to do so for the Faith Pengally at the above address.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
A member of the AIC S H A R E H O L D E R I N F O R M A T I O N | 8 1 www.
Telephone lines are open Monday to Friday, 9.00am to 5.30pm.
Telephone calls may be recorded and monitored for security and training purposes.
