N O T I C E O F A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G Notice is hereby given that the ninetieth Annual General Meeting Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of of JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc will be held at the relevant securities Special Resolution Offices of JPMorgan, 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP 12.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, on Thursday, 13th December 2018 at 12 noon for the following the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby purposes: empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of 1.
To receive the Directors Report & Financial Statements and the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th September Resolution 11 or by way of a sale of Treasury shares as if 2018.
Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the nominal amount of 4,031,200 or, if different the year ended 30th September 2018. aggregate nominal amount representing approximately 4.
To approve a final dividend of 5.00p per share.
10% of the issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net 5.
To reappoint Stephen Cohen as a Director of the Company.
asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of 6.
To reappoint Sir Stephen Gomersall as a Director of the the general authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, Company.
save that the Company may before such expiry make offers 7.
To reappoint George Olcott as a Director of the Company.
or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so that the 8.
To reappoint Christopher Samuel as a Director of the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in Company.
pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the power 9.
To reappoint  LLP as the Auditors conferred hereby had not expired.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors Resolution remuneration.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with Special Business Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within To consider the following resolutions: the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby from time to time determine.
generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT any authorities previously granted to the Directors, i the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the authorised to be purchased shall be 24,171,085 or, if Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers less, that number of Ordinary shares which is equal for the Company to allot shares in the Company and to to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security less shares held in Treasury as at the date of the into, shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate passing of this resolution: nominal amount of 4,031,200 or, if different the aggregate nominal amount representing approximately ii the minimum price which may be paid for an 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital as at Ordinary share shall be 25p: the date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this iii the maximum price which may be paid for an authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual Ordinary share shall be an amount equal to the General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019 unless highest of: a 105% of the average of the middle renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save that market quotations for an Ordinary share taken from the Company may before such expiry make offers or and calculated by reference to the London Stock agreements which would or might require shares to be Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and so immediately preceding the day on which the that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and Ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: or grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as b the price of the last independent trade: or c the if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
highest current independent bid: 7 4 | J P M O R G A N J A P A N E S E I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 N O T I C E O F A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G iv any purchase of Ordinary shares will be made in the Notes market for cash at prices below the prevailing net These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse asset value per Ordinary share as determined by the of the proxy form.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the Meeting may appoint another person s who need not be a member of the Company to exercise all or any of his rights to 12th June 2020 unless the authority is renewed at attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more the Annual General Meeting in 2019 or at any other than one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is general meeting prior to such time: and appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by vi the Company may make a contract to purchase him.
Ordinary shares under the authority hereby 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the contract will or may be executed wholly or partly Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who after the expiry of such authority and may make has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the a purchase of Ordinary shares pursuant to any such Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the contract.
proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your By order of the Board vote to count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you Faith Pengelly, from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in JPMorgan Funds Limited, accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form no later than Secretary 12 noon two business days prior to the Meeting i. e. excluding 12th November 2018 weekends and bank holidays.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting or adjourned Meeting.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s to Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised by act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
see instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative s between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their contents of this Notice of Meeting, details of the total number of appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Meeting, the total voting rights members are entitled to 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies exercise at the Meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its members resolutions or members matters of business received by website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the the Company after the date of this Notice will be available on the Companys financial statements including the Auditors report and the Companys website www.
conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Meeting: or b any circumstances connected with Auditors of the Company ceasing to 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the hold office since the previous AGM, which the members propose to share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public on the website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
No Director has any contract of service with the Company.
business which may be dealt with at the Meeting includes any 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of statement that the Company has been required to publish on its Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other website pursuant to this right.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting must cause to be answered at the Meeting any question relating to the Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by business being dealt with at the Meeting which is put by a member visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it is and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the printed under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting Instruction Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti information.
Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your 10.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the Form of Proxy at www.
Full instructions are given on threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the both websites.
Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive 16.
As at 6th November 2018 being the latest business day prior to the notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: of 161,248,078 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting total voting rights in the Company are 161,248,078. any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business at the Meeting.
A copy of the current articles of association of the Company will be moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless: a in the available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether Sundays and public holidays excepted at the offices of JPMorgan by reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys Asset Management UK Limited, 60 Victoria Embankment, London constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is EC4Y 0JP, from the date of the Annual Report in which this notice is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in included up until the close of the AGM.
Copies will also be available at hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP, being the place of the notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must Annual General Meeting, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the meeting.
request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must Electronic appointment CREST members be received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting the grounds for the request.
and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
A copy of this Notice of Meeting has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated 7 6 | J P M O R G A N J A P A N E S E I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8
