Disclosures regarding financial instruments measured at fair value The Companys financial instruments within the scope of FRS 102 that are held at fair value comprise its investment portfolio and derivative financial instruments.
The investments are categorised into a hierarchy consisting of levels 1, 2 and 3.
Level 1: The unadjusted quoted price in an active market for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable i. e. : developed using market data for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly Level 3: Inputs are unobservable i. e. : for which market data is unavailable for the asset or liability Categorisation within the hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the relevant asset.
Details of the valuation techniques used by the Company are given in note 1 b on page 50.
The following table sets out the fair value measurements using the FRS 102 hierarchy as at 30th September.
2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 000 000 000 000 Level 1 976,724 771,143 Total 976,724 771,143 There were no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 during the year 2017: same.
Financial instruments exposure to risk and risk management policies As an investment trust, the Company invests in equities for the long term so as to secure its investment objective stated on the Features page.
In pursuing this objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of financial risks that could result in a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction in the profits available for dividends.
These financial risks include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Directors policy for managing these risks is set out below.
The Company Secretary, in close cooperation with the Board and the Manager, coordinates the Companys risk management policy.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing the risks and the methods used to measure the risks that are set out below, have not changed from those applying in the comparative year.
The Companys classes of financial instruments are as follows: investments in equity shares of Japanese companies which are held in accordance with the Companys investment objective: short term debtors, creditors and cash arising directly from its operations: a loan facility: and senior secured loan notes issued by the Company.
