W H E R E T O B U Y J. P. M O R G A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T S You can invest in a J. P. Morgan investment trust through the Please note this list is not exhaustive and the availability of following: individual trusts may vary depending on the provider.
These websites are third party sites and J. P. Morgan Asset Management does not endorse or recommend any.
Directly from J. P. Morgan privacy and cookie policies as well as their platform charges Investment Account structure.
The Companys shares are available in the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and 3.
Through a professional adviser occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary Professional advisers are usually able to access the products of all shares.
Shareholders who would like information on the the companies in the market and can help you find an investment Investment Account should call J. P. Morgan Asset Management that suits your individual circumstances.
An adviser will let you free on 0800 20 40 20 or visit its website at know the fee for their service before you go ahead.
co. uk investor an adviser at unbiased.
co. uk Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA You may also buy investment trusts through stockbrokers, wealth managers and banks.
The Companys shares are eligible investments within a J. P. Morgan ISA.
For the 2018 19 tax year, from 6th April 2018 To familiarise yourself with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and ending 5th April 2019, the total ISA allowance is 20,000. adviser charging and commission rules, visit fca.
uk The shares are also available in a J. P. Morgan Junior ISA.
Details are available from J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on 0800 20 40 20 or via its website at am.
Via a third party provider Third party providers include: AJ Bell Hargreaves Lansdown Alliance Trust Savings Interactive Investor Barclays Stockbrokers James Brearley Bestinvest James Hay Charles Stanley Direct Selftrade FundsNetwork The Share Centre S H A R E H O L D E R I N F O R M A T I O N | 7 9 W H E R E T O B U Y J. P. M O R G A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T S Avoid investment fraud Report a Scam Be ScamSmart 1 Reject cold calls If you suspect that you have been If youve received unsolicited contact about approached by fraudsters please tell the an investment opportunity, chances are FCA using the reporting form at its a high risk investment or a scam.
uk consumers reportInvestment scams are should treat the call with extreme caution.
You can also call designed to look like The safest thing to do is to hang up.
the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 genuine investments 2 Check the FCA Warning List The FCA Warning List is a list of rms and If you have lost money to investment fraud, Spot the warning signs individuals we know are operating without you should report it to Action Fraud on Have you been: our authorisation.
0300 123 2040 or online at contacted out of the blue 3 Get impartial advice www.
uk promised tempting returns Think about getting impartial financial and told the investment is safe advice before you hand over any money.
Find out more at called repeatedly, or Seek advice from someone unconnected to www.
uk scamsmart told the offer is only available the rm that has approached you.
If so, you might have been Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, contacted by fraudsters.
