Accounting policies continued j Foreign currency The Company is required to identify its functional currency, being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Board, having regard to the currency of the Companys share capital and the predominant currency in which its shareholders operate, has determined that sterling is the functional currency.
Sterling is also the currency in which the financial statements are presented.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are converted at actual exchange rates at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets, liabilities and equity investments held at fair value, denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as an exchange gain or loss in revenue or capital, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a revenue or capital nature.
k Dividend payable Dividends are included in the financial statements in the year in which they are approved by shareholders.
l Repurchase of ordinary shares for cancellation The cost of repurchasing ordinary shares including the related stamp duty and transactions costs is charged to Capital reserves and dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
The nominal value of ordinary share capital repurchased and cancelled is transferred out of Called up share capital and into Capital redemption reserve.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Companys financial statements on occasion requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the primary financial statements and the accompanying disclosures.
These assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in the current and future periods, depending on circumstance.
The Directors do not believe that any significant accounting judgements or estimates have been applied to this set of financial statements, including estimates that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 2018 2017 000 000 Gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss based on historic cost 91,005 59,365 Amounts recognised as investment holding gains and losses in the previous year in respect of investments sold during the year 78,480 77,489 Gains losses on sales of investments based on the carrying value at the previous balance sheet date 12,525 18,124 Net movement in investment holding gains and losses 166,991 62,524 Other capital charges 1 3 Total capital gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 179,515 44,397 5 2 | J P M O R G A N J A P A N E S E I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8
