JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Investment Objective, Investment Policy and Benchmark Index Objective of the Company The objective of the Company is to invest in securities of European companies and in sectors or geographical areas which are considered by the Investment Adviser to offer good prospects for capital growth, taking into account economic trends and business development.
Investment Policy The Investment Adviser adopts a stock picking approach in the belief that a thorough analysis and understanding of a company is the best way to identify long-term superior growth prospects.
This understanding begins with identifying those companies where the ownership structure and incumbent management are conducive to the realisation of the aim of achieving superior long-term earnings growth.
The Investment Adviser will seek to identify companies which enjoy certain key business characteristics including some or all of the following: a strong mana gement record and team, and the confidence that the Investment Adviser has in that managements ability to explain and account for its actions: proprietar y technology and other factors which indicate a sustainable competitive advantage: a reasonable expectation that demand for their products or services will enjoy long-term growth: and an under standing that structural changes are likely to benefit rather than negatively impact that companys prospects.
There may be sectors which do not enjoy the business characteristics described above and in such circumstances the Investment Adviser will seek to identify companies that are expected to generate superior earnings growth within that sector.
In analysing potential investments, the Investment Adviser will employ differing valuation techniques depending on their relevance to the business characteristics of a particular company.
However, the underlying feature will be the sustainability and growth of free cashflow in the long-term.
Any material change in the investment policy of the Company described above may only be made with the approval of Shareholders by an ordinary resolution.
Investment Restrictions The Company will at all times invest and manage its assets, mindful of spreading risk and in accordance with its published investment policy.
In order to comply with the current Listing Rules the Company will not invest in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
Benchmark Index FTSE World Europe ex UK Total Return Index Bloomberg Indication Code FTRSERXU 2
