JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting This Notice of Meeting is an important document.
If you are in any ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings subject to such limits or doubt as to what action to take, you should consult an appropriate restrictions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem independent adviser.
necessary or expedient to deal with any treasury shares, Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Jupiter fractional entitlements or securities represented by depositary receipts, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems European Opportunities Trust PLC will be held at The Zig Zag Building, 70 Victoria Street, London SW1E 6SQ on 7 November 2018 at in, or under the laws or requirements of, any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any 11.00 am.
other matter, Shareholders will be asked to consider and, if thought fit, pass the provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary resolutions, Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this except for resolutions 12, 13 and 14, which will be proposed as Special resolution save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an resolutions: offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities ORDINARY BUSINESS to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity 1.
That the Report of the Directors and the audited Accounts of the securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the Company for the year ended 31 May 2018 be received.
authority hereby conferred had not expired.
That the Company be and is generally and unconditionally authorised 2.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 May in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2018 be approved.
Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of 3.
That a final dividend of 6.5p per Ordinary share be paid in respect Section 693 of the Act of Ordinary shares provided that: of the financial year ended 31 May 2018. a the maximum number of shares that may be purchased 4.
That Mr A L Sutch be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
is 16,890,032 Ordinary shares, being 14.99 per cent.
of the issued number of Ordinary shares at the date of this document 5.
That Mr P E F Best be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
or, if lower, such number as is equal to 14.99 per cent.
of the issued number of Ordinary shares at the date of passing the 6.
That The Rt Hon Lord Lamont of Lerwick be re-elected as a Director resolution: of the Company.
b the minimum price which may be paid shall be one pence per 7.
That Mr J D A Wallinger be re-elected as a Director of the Company.
That V Holmes be elected as a Director of the Company.
c the maximum price excluding the expenses of such purchase which may be paid for each Ordinary share is the higher of: 9.
That Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as Auditor of the Company.
i 105% of the average middle market quotations for such 10.
That the Directors be authorised to agree the remuneration of the Ordinary share taken from the London Stock Exchange Auditor.
Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is purchased: and SPECIAL BUSINESS 11.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 551 of the highest current independent bid as stipulated by the Companies Act 2006 the Act, in substitution for and to the Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC 22 December exclusion of any outstanding authority previously conferred on 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards the Directors under Section 551 of the Act, to allot shares in the exemptions for buyback programmes and stabilisation of capital of the Company shares up to a maximum aggregate financial instruments No.
2273 2003 : and nominal amount of 375,584.43 provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of d unless renewed, the authority shall expire at the conclusion the Company after the passing of this resolution save that the of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement passing of this resolution save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares which will or which would or might require shares to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares in pursuance of such an offer or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
agreement as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
That a General Meeting other than the Annual General Meeting may 12.
That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby granted power be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
pursuant to Section 570 and or Section 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of By Order of the Board The Zig Zag Building Section 560 of the Act for cash either pursuant to the authority Jupiter Asset Management Limited 70 Victoria Street, conferred by Resolution 11 or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, Company Secretary London SW1E 6SQ provided that this power shall be limited to: 28 September 2018 a the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 112,675.33: and b in addition to the authority referred to in a above, an offer of equity securities by way of a rights issue or open offer to 54
