JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual General Meeting continued Notes for Annual General Meeting 1.
A Member entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or proxies CREST member s and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors to attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed which, make available special procedures in CREST for any particular if used, must be lodged at the Companys Registrars, Link Asset messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore Services, PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It not less than forty-eight hours before the Meeting.
To appoint more is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take than one proxy you may photocopy this form.
You may appoint a or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member person other than the Chairman as your proxy.
Please indicate or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure should not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service the same envelope.
providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 2.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities system and timings.
Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that to be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of the determination by The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated must be entered on the Companys Register of Members at close Securities Regulations 2001. of business on 5 November 2018.
If the meeting is adjourned then, 7.
If you have disposed of your holding in the Company the report to be so entitled, Members must be entered on the Companys should be passed on to the person through whom the sale or transfer Register of Members at the time which is 48 hours before the time was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of 8.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 3.
As at 21 September 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, consisted of 112,675,331 Ordinary shares, carrying one vote have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed each.
The Company holds no shares in treasury.
Therefore, the as a proxy for the Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such total voting rights in the Company as at 21 September 2018 were proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, 112,675,331 votes.
under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the 4.
The vote Withheld is provided to enable you to abstain on any shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
However, it should be noted that a Withheld 9.
A copy of the Notice of Meeting and other information required vote is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at the proportion of the votes For and Against a resolution.
The completion and return of this form will not preclude a Member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 November 2018 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice of Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
I We direct my our proxy to vote on the resolutions as set out in the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting as follows: FOR AGAINST WITHHELD 1.
To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and audited Accounts 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report 3.
To declare a final dividend of 6.5p per Ordinary share 4.
To re-elect The Rt Hon Lord Lamont of Lerwick 7.
To determine the Auditors remuneration 11.
To authorise the directors to allot shares in the Company 12.
To authorise the directors to disapply pre-emption rights 13.
To authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own shares 14.
Please indicate how you wish your votes to be cast on a poll in respect of the resolutions to be proposed at the said meeting.
If you do not indicate how you wish your proxy to use your votes, the proxy will exercise his discretion both as to how he votes and as to whether or not he abstains from voting.
Your proxy will have the authority to vote at his discretion on any amendment or other motion proposed at the meeting, including any motion to adjourn the meeting.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
If you prefer to appoint some other person or persons as your proxy, strike out the words the Chairman of the Meeting, or failing him and insert in the blank space the name or names preferred and initial the alteration.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Completion of a form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person.
In the case of joint holders, the signature of the holder whose name stands first in the relevant register of members will suffice as the vote of such holder and shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
The names of all joint holders should, however, be shown.
If a member is a corporation, this form must be executed either under its common seal or under the hand of an officer or agent duly authorised in writing.
In the case of an individual the proxy must be signed by the appointer or his agent, duly authorised in writing.
This form of proxy has been sent to you by post.
It may be returned in the pre-paid business reply envelope provided, or by post to the Companys Registrars, Link Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF, or courier or by hand to Link Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
CREST members should use the CREST electronic proxy appointment service and refer to Note 6 in the Notes for Annual General Meeting on page 53 in relation to the submission of a proxy appointment via CREST.
In each case the proxy appointment must be received not less than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting together except in the case of appointments made electronically with any authority or a notarially certified copy of such authority under which it is signed.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Cocoon 50% Silk, a paper containing 50% recycled fibre 25% post consumer waste and 25% preconsumer waste and 50% virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
