JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Glossary of terms: Alternative Performance Measures The European Securities and Markets Authority published its guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures APMs.
APMs are defined as being a financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or specified in the applicable accounting framework.
The guidelines are aimed at promoting the usefulness and transparency of APMs included in regulated information and aim to improve comparability, reliability and or comprehensibility of APMs.
The following APMs are used throughout the annual report, financial statements and notes to the financial statements.
Benchmark total return index A total return index is a type of equity performance index that tracks both the capital gains of a group of stocks over time, and assumes that any cash distributions, such as dividends, are reinvested back into the index.
Discount The amount, expressed as a percentage, by which the share price is less than the net asset value per share.
Gearing Gearing is the borrowing of cash to buy more assets for the portfolio with the aim of making a gain on those assets larger than the cost of the loan.
However, if the portfolio doesnt perform well the gain might not cover the costs.
The more an investment company gears, the higher the risk.
Mid-market price The mid-market price is the mid-point between the buy and the sell prices.
NAV per share The net asset value NAV is the value of the investment companys asset less its liabilities.
The NAV per share is the NAV divided by the number of shares in issue.
The difference between the NAV per share and the share price is known as the discount or premium.
Ongoing charges Ongoing charges are the total expenses including both the investment management fee and other costs but excluding performance fees, expressed as a percentage of NAV.
Premium The amount, expressed as a percentage, by which the share price is more than the net asset value per share.
