JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Company Information continued Broker Cenkos Securities plc 6-8 Tokenhouse Yard London EC2R 7AS Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority Company Registration Number 4056870 Registered in England & Wales An investment company under s. 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Investor Codes The Ordinary shares of the Company are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Sedol Number Ordinary shares 0019772 ISIN Ordinary shares GB0000197722 Ticker Ordinary shares JEO LEI 549300XN7RXQWHN18849 THE COMPANY IS A MEMBER OF THE Investor Information Performance Updates The Company publishes a monthly factsheet which contains key information about its performance, investment portfolio and pricing.
The factsheets, together with electronic copies of the most recent full and interim reports and accounts and Interim Management Statement, are available for download from www.
Should you wish to be added to an email distribution list for future editions of the monthly factsheet, please send an email to investmentcompanies@jupiteram.
For investors who do not have access to the internet, these documents are also available on request from Jupiters Customer Services Team on 0800 561 4000.
Changes to our Data Privacy Notice We have updated our Privacy Notice to align with the new data privacy law in the European Union, known as the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR to which we are subject.
Data protection and the security of your information always has been and remains of paramount importance to us.
Any information concerning Shareholders and other related natural persons together the Data Subjects provided to, or collected by or on behalf of, Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited the management company and or Jupiter Green Investment Trust Plc the Controllers directly from Data Subjects or from publicly available sources may be processed by the Controllers as joint controllers, in compliance with the GDPR.
You are not required to take any action in respect of this notice, but we encourage you to read our Privacy Notice.
Our Privacy Notice can be found on our website, www.
com Shared-Content Legal-content-pages Privacy Investment-trusts.
In the event that you hold your shares as a nominee, we request that you promptly pass on the details of where to find our Privacy Notice to the underlying investors and or the beneficial owners.
